10-K


l30238ae10vk.htm

HEALTHCARE REIT    10-K

HealthCare REIT     10-K


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
    SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007

Commission File

No. 1-8923

HEALTH CARE REIT,
    INC.

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

Delaware

34-1096634

(State or other jurisdiction
    of

(I.R.S. Employer

incorporation or
    organization)

Identification
    Number)

One SeaGate, Suite 1500, Toledo, Ohio


(Address of principal executive
    office)

(Zip
    Code)

(419) 247-2800

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act:

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, $1.00 par value

New York Stock Exchange

7.875% Series D Cumulative

Redeemable Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value

New York Stock Exchange

7.625% Series F Cumulative

Redeemable Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value

New York Stock Exchange

7.5% Series G Cumulative

Convertible Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months; and (2) has been subject to such filing
    requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this

Form 10-K

or any amendment of this

Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
    “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated
    filer” and “smaller reporting company” in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer

þ

Accelerated
    filer

o

Non-accelerated
    filer

o

Smaller reporting
    company

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the
    Act).  Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the shares of voting common stock
    held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference
    to the closing sales price of such shares on the New York Stock
    Exchange as of the last business day of the registrant’s
    most recently completed second fiscal quarter was $3,260,216,426.

As of February 15, 2008, there were 85,759,075 shares
    of common stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for
    the annual stockholders’ meeting to be held May 1,
    2008, are incorporated by reference into Part III.

HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.


FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT




PART I

Item 1.

Business

General

Health Care REIT, Inc., a Delaware Corporation, is an equity
    real estate investment trust (“REIT”) that invests
    across the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real
    estate, including continuing care retirement communities,
    independent living, assisted living, skilled nursing, hospitals,
    long-term acute care hospitals and medical office buildings. We
    also offer a full array of property management and development
    services. Founded in 1970, we were the first REIT to invest
    exclusively in health care properties. As of December 31,
    2007, we had $5,020,026,000 of real estate investments in 638
    properties located in 38 states.

Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and
    enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash
    dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase
    dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual
    increases in rental and interest income and portfolio growth. To
    meet these objectives, we invest in the full spectrum of senior
    housing and health care real estate and diversify our investment
    portfolio by property type, operator/tenant and geographic
    location.

Depending on the availability and cost of external capital, we
    anticipate investing in additional properties and providing
    loans to qualified obligors. Capital for future investments may
    be provided by borrowing under our unsecured line of credit
    arrangement, public or private offerings of debt or equity
    securities, or the incurrence or assumption of secured
    indebtedness.

References herein to “we,” “us,”
    “our” or the “Company” refer to Health Care
    REIT, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless specifically noted
    otherwise.

Windrose
    Medical Properties Trust Merger

As discussed in our Annual Report on

Form 10-K/A

for the year ended December 31, 2006, we completed our
    merger with Windrose Medical Properties Trust on
    December 20, 2006. These operations are the principal
    component of our operating property segment. The results of
    operations for this segment represent the primary change in our
    consolidated results of operations from the prior year.
    Allocation of the purchase price has been finalized. See
    Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for
    additional information.

Rendina/Paramount
    Acquisition

In May 2007, we completed the acquisition of 17 medical office
    buildings and Paramount Real Estate Services, a property
    management company, from affiliates of Rendina Companies. The
    results of operations for these properties and Paramount have
    been included in our consolidated results of operations from the
    date of acquisition. Allocation of the purchase price has been
    finalized. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial
    statements for additional information.



Portfolio
    of Properties

The following table summarizes our portfolio as of
    December 31, 2007:

Investments

Percentage of

Revenues(1)

Percentage of

Number of

# Beds/Units

Investment per

Operators/

Type of Property

(In thousands)

Investments

(In thousands)

Revenues

Properties

or Sq. Ft.

metric (2)

Tenants

States

Independent

living/CCRCs

$

777,349


%

$

45,502


%


7,509 units

$

157,564 per unit



Assisted living

facilities

1,043,467


%

114,961


%


12,750 units

98,087 per unit



Skilled nursing

facilities

1,592,035


%

159,033


%


30,647 beds

52,752 per bed



Medical office

buildings

1,248,264


%

112,317


%


5,032,333 sq. ft.

276 per sq. ft.



Specialty care

facilities

358,911


%

25,484


%


1,541 beds

248,321 per bed



Interest income

25,823


%

Other income

10,035


%

Totals

$

5,020,026


%

493,155


%


(1)

Revenues include gross revenues and
    revenues from discontinued operations for the year ended
    December 31, 2007.

(2)

Investment per metric was computed
    by using the total investment amount of $5,820,723,000 which
    includes real estate investments and unfunded construction
    commitments for which initial funding has commenced which
    amounted to $5,020,026,000 and $800,697,000, respectively.

Property
    Types

Our primary property types include investment properties and
    operating properties. Investment properties are those in which
    we do not participate in the management of the property and
    include skilled nursing facilities, assisted living facilities,
    independent living/continuing care retirement communities and
    certain specialty care facilities. Our operating properties are
    those in which we are responsible for the management of the
    property and are primarily medical office buildings. Our
    properties include stand-alone facilities that provide one level
    of service, combination facilities that provide multiple levels
    of service, and communities or campuses that provide a wide
    range of services. The following is a summary of our various
    property types.

Assisted
    Living Facilities

Assisted living facilities are state regulated rental properties
    that provide the same services as independent living facilities,
    but also provide supportive care from trained employees to
    residents who require assistance with activities of daily
    living, including management of medications, bathing, dressing,
    toileting, ambulating and eating.

Alzheimer’s/Dementia Care
    Facilities

Certain assisted living facilities may
    include state licensed settings that specialize in caring for
    those afflicted with Alzheimer’s disease

and/or

similar forms of dementia.

Skilled
    Nursing Facilities

Skilled nursing facilities are licensed daily rate or rental
    properties where the majority of individuals require

24-hour

nursing

and/or

medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for
    Medicaid

and/or

Medicare reimbursement.

Independent
    Living/Continuing Care Retirement Communities

These communities may include one or more of the following
    property types.

Continuing Care Retirement
    Communities

Continuing care retirement
    communities include a combination of detached homes, an
    independent living facility, an assisted living facility

and/or

a
    skilled nursing facility on one campus. These communities are
    appealing to residents because there is no need for relocating
    when health and medical needs change. Resident payment plans
    vary, but can include entrance fees, condominium fees and rental
    fees. Many of these communities also charge monthly maintenance
    fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health
    services.



Active Adult Communities

Active adult
    communities contain primarily for-sale single-family homes,
    townhomes, cluster homes, mobile homes

and/or

condominiums with no specialized services. These communities are
    typically restricted or targeted to adults at least
    55 years of age or older. Residents generally lead an
    independent lifestyle. Communities may include amenities such as
    a clubhouse, golf course and recreational spaces.

Independent Living Facilities

Independent
    living facilities are age-restricted multifamily properties with
    central dining facilities that provide residents access to meals
    and other services such as housekeeping, linen service,
    transportation and social and recreational activities.

Specialty
    Care Facilities

Our specialty care facilities generally include acute care
    hospitals, long-term acute care hospitals and other specialty
    care facilities. Acute care hospitals provide a wide range of
    inpatient and outpatient services, including, but not limited
    to, surgery, rehabilitation, therapy and clinical laboratories.
    Long-term acute care hospitals provide inpatient services for
    patients with complex medical conditions that require more
    intensive care, monitoring or emergency support than that
    available in most skilled nursing facilities. Other specialty
    care facilities typically provide specialized inpatient and
    outpatient care for specific illnesses or diseases, including,
    among others, orthopedic and neurologic care.

Medical
    Office Buildings

Medical office buildings are office and clinic facilities, often
    located near hospitals or on hospital campuses, specifically
    constructed and designed for the use by physicians and other
    health care personnel to provide services to their patients.
    They may also include ambulatory surgery centers that are used
    for general or specialty surgical procedures not requiring an
    overnight stay in a hospital. Medical office buildings typically
    contain sole and group physician practices and may provide
    laboratory and other patient services.

Investments

We invest across the full spectrum of senior housing and health
    care real estate. We diversify our investment portfolio by
    property type, operator/tenant and geographic location. In
    determining whether to invest in a property, we focus on the
    following: (1) the experience of the obligor’s
    management team; (2) the historical and projected financial
    and operational performance of the property; (3) the credit
    of the obligor; (4) the security for the lease or loan; and
    (5) the capital committed to the property by the obligor.
    We conduct market research and analysis for all potential
    investments. In addition, we review the value of all properties,
    the interest rates and covenant requirements of any debt to be
    assumed and the anticipated sources of repayment of any existing
    debt that is not to be assumed.

We monitor our investments through a variety of methods
    determined by the type of property and obligor. Our asset
    management process generally includes review of monthly
    financial statements and other operating data for each property,
    periodic review of obligor creditworthiness, periodic property
    inspections and review of covenant compliance relating to
    licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other
    collateral. In monitoring our portfolio, our personnel use a
    proprietary database to collect and analyze property-specific
    data. Additionally, we conduct extensive research to ascertain
    industry trends and risks.

Through asset management and research, we evaluate the operating
    environment in each property’s market to determine whether
    payment risk is likely to increase. When we identify
    unacceptable levels of payment risk, we seek to mitigate,
    eliminate or transfer the risk. We categorize the risk as
    obligor, property or market risk. For obligor risk, we typically
    find a substitute operator/tenant to run the property. For
    property risk, we usually work with the operator/tenant to
    institute property-level management changes to address the risk.
    Finally, for market risk, we often encourage an obligor to
    change its capital structure, including refinancing the property
    or raising additional equity. Through these asset management and
    research efforts, we are generally able to intervene at an early
    stage to address payment risk, and in so doing, support both the
    collectibility of revenue and the value of our investment.

Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new
    investments will be available in the future with spreads over
    our cost of capital that will generate appropriate returns to
    our stockholders.

Segment
    Reporting

Our business consists of two business segments —
    investment properties and operating properties. For additional
    information regarding business segments, see Note 18 to our
    audited consolidated financial statements.



Investment
    Properties

Real Property.

Our investment properties are
    those in which we do not participate in the management of the
    property and are primarily land, building, improvements and
    related rights that are leased to operators under long-term
    operating leases. The net value of our investment properties
    aggregated approximately $3,016,993,000 at December 31,
    2007. The leases generally have a fixed contractual term of 12
    to 15 years and contain one or more five to

15-year

renewal options. Most of our rents are received under

triple-net

leases requiring the operator to pay rent and all additional
    charges incurred in the operation of the leased property. The
    tenants are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the leased
    properties. Substantially all of these operating leases are
    designed with either fixed or contingent escalating rent
    structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are
    generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial
    lease period, subject to a collectibility assessment. Rental
    income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is
    generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments
    due for the period.

At December 31, 2007, 87% of our investment properties were
    subject to master leases. A master lease is a lease of multiple
    properties to one tenant entity under a single lease agreement.
    From time to time, we may acquire additional properties that are
    then leased to the tenant under the master lease. The tenant is
    required to make one monthly payment that represents rent on all
    the properties that are subject to the master lease. Typically,
    the master lease tenant can exercise its right to purchase the
    properties or to renew the master lease only with respect to all
    leased properties at the same time. This bundling feature
    benefits us because the tenant cannot limit the purchase or
    renewal to the better performing properties and terminate the
    leasing arrangement with respect to the poorer performing
    properties. This spreads our risk among the entire group of
    properties within the master lease. The bundling feature may
    provide a similar advantage if the master lease tenant is in
    bankruptcy. Subject to certain restrictions, a debtor in
    bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject each of its leases.
    It is our intent that a tenant in bankruptcy would be required
    to assume or reject the master lease as a whole, rather than
    deciding on a property by property basis.

Construction.

We currently provide for the
    construction of properties for tenants as part of long-term
    operating leases. We capitalize certain interest costs
    associated with funds used to pay for the construction of
    properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the
    amount advanced during the construction period using the rate of
    interest that approximates our cost of financing. Our interest
    expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. We also typically
    charge a transaction fee at the commencement of construction.
    The construction period commences upon funding and terminates
    upon the earlier of the completion of the applicable property or
    the end of a specified period. During the construction period,
    we advance funds to the tenants in accordance with agreed upon
    terms and conditions which require, among other things, periodic
    site visits by a Company representative. During the construction
    period, we generally require an additional credit enhancement in
    the form of payment and performance bonds

and/or

completion guaranties. At December 31, 2007, we had
    outstanding construction investments of $313,709,000 and were
    committed to providing additional funds of approximately
    $800,697,000 to complete construction.

Real Estate Loans.

Our real estate loans are
    typically structured to provide us with interest income,
    principal amortization and transaction fees and are generally
    secured by a first, second or third mortgage lien, leasehold
    mortgage, corporate guaranties

and/or

personal guaranties. At December 31, 2007, we had
    outstanding real estate loans of $381,394,000. The interest
    yield averaged approximately 9.24% per annum on our outstanding
    real estate loan balances. Our yield on real estate loans
    depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest
    rate, average principal amount outstanding during the term of
    the loan and any interest rate adjustments. The real estate
    loans outstanding at December 31, 2007 are generally
    subject to three to

20-year

terms with principal amortization schedules

and/or

balloon payments of the outstanding principal balances at the
    end of the term. Typically, real estate loans are
    cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate
    loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor
    and its affiliates.

Operating
    Properties

Our operating properties primarily consist of multi-tenant
    medical office buildings leased to health care providers.
    Management of these properties is provided by Paramount Real
    Estate Services, our property management company. Leases with
    our tenants are primarily triple net leases that require the
    tenants to pay their proportionate share of operating expenses.
    Other lease types with our tenants are gross or modified gross
    leases, where all or a portion of our operating expenses are not
    reimbursed by tenants. Accordingly, we incur certain property
    operating expenses, such as real estate taxes, repairs and
    maintenance, utilities and insurance. At December 31, 2007,
    78% of our operating property leases were triple net as compared
    to 8% gross and 14% modified gross leases. Substantially all of
    our leases at operating properties include annual base rent
    escalation



clauses that are either predetermined fixed increases or are a
    function of an inflation index, and typically have an initial
    term ranging from one to 20 years, with a weighted average
    remaining term of approximately six years as of
    December 31, 2007. Operating property leases are normally
    credit enhanced by guaranties

and/or

letters of credit. The net value of our operating properties
    aggregated approximately $1,307,931,000 at December 31,
    2007.

Development
    Services Group

Through our subsidiary, HCN Development Services Group, Inc.
    (“DSG”), we develop quality specialty medical
    properties. Formerly known as Hospital Affiliates Development
    Corporation or “HADC,” DSG develops and constructs new

“build-to-suit”

and multi-tenant facilities for us, and in some instances, for
    third parties who are expected to develop long-term
    relationships with the Company. DSG provides services such as
    property development, facility and medical equipment planning
    and implementation services to healthcare services, physician
    groups and third party medical property owners.

Equity
    Investments

Equity investments consist of an investment in a public company
    that has a readily determinable fair market value. We classify
    this equity investment as

available-for-sale

and, accordingly, record this investment at its fair market
    value with unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated
    other comprehensive income, a separate component of
    stockholders’ equity. This investment represents a minimal
    ownership interest in the company.

Borrowing
    Policies

We utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund the purchase
    of new properties and to provide loan financing. Our debt and
    equity levels are determined by management to maintain a
    conservative credit profile. Generally, we intend to issue
    unsecured, fixed rate public debt with long-term maturities to
    approximate the maturities on our leases and loans. For
    short-term purposes, we may borrow on our unsecured line of
    credit arrangement. We replace these borrowings with long-term
    capital such as senior unsecured notes, common stock or
    preferred stock. When terms are deemed favorable, we may invest
    in properties subject to existing mortgage indebtedness. In
    addition, we may obtain secured financing for unleveraged
    properties in which we have invested or may refinance properties
    acquired on a leveraged basis. It is our intent to limit secured
    indebtedness. In our agreements with our lenders, we are subject
    to restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured
    indebtedness.

Competition

We compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate
    partnerships, private equity and hedge fund investors, banks,
    insurance companies, finance/investment companies,
    government-sponsored agencies, taxable and tax-exempt bond
    funds, health care operators, developers and other investors in
    the acquisition, development, leasing and financing of health
    care and senior housing properties. Some of our competitors are
    larger with greater resources and lower costs of capital than
    us. Increased competition inhibits our ability to identify and
    successfully complete investments. We compete for investments
    based on a number of factors including rates, financings
    offered, underwriting criteria and reputation. Our ability to
    successfully compete is also impacted by economic and population
    trends, availability of acceptable investment opportunities, our
    ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms, availability
    and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs and new
    and existing laws and regulations.

The operators/tenants of our properties compete on a local and
    regional basis with operators/tenants of properties that provide
    comparable services. Operators/tenants compete for patients and
    residents based on a number of factors including quality of
    care, reputation, physical appearance of properties, services
    offered, family preferences, physicians, staff and price. We
    also face competition from other health care facilities for
    tenants, such as physicians and other health care providers that
    provide comparable facilities and services.

For additional information on the risks associated with our
    business, please see “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors” of this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

Employees

As of December 31, 2007, we had 198 employees.



Customer
    Concentrations

The following table summarizes certain information about our
    customer concentrations as of December 31, 2007 (dollars in
    thousands):

Number of

Total

Percent of

Properties

Investment

Investment(1)

Concentration by investment:

Emeritus Corporation


$

355,147


%

Signature Healthcare LLC


325,744


%

Brookdale Senior Living, Inc


258,990


%

Life Care Centers of America, Inc.


255,168


%

Senior Living Communities, LLC


187,437


%

Remaining portfolio


3,637,540


%

Totals


$

5,020,026


%

Number of

Total

Percent of

Properties

Revenue(2)

Revenue(3)

Concentration by revenue:

Emeritus Corporation


$

39,546


%

Brookdale Senior Living, Inc


37,791


%

Home Quality Management, Inc.


24,512


%

Life Care Centers of America, Inc.


23,854


%

Tara Cares, LLC


18,982


%

Remaining portfolio


338,435


%

Other income

n/a

10,035


%

Totals


$

493,155


%

Certain
    Government Regulations

Health
    Law Matters — Generally

We invest in assisted living, skilled nursing, independent
    living/continuing care retirement communities, medical office
    buildings and specialty care facilities, which represented
    approximately 21%, 32%, 15%, 25% and 7%, respectively, of our
    investments at December 31, 2007.

Typically, operators of assisted living and independent living
    facilities do not receive significant funding from governmental
    programs and are regulated by the states, not the federal
    government. Operators of skilled nursing and specialty care
    facilities do receive significant funding from governmental
    programs and are subject to federal and state laws that regulate
    the type and quality of the medical

and/or

nursing care provided, ancillary services (e.g., respiratory,
    occupational, physical and infusion therapies), qualifications
    of the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the adequacy
    of the physical plant and equipment, distribution of
    pharmaceuticals, reimbursement and rate setting and operating
    policies. In addition, as described below, a number of our
    property operators are subject to extensive laws and regulations
    pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including kickbacks,
    physician self-referrals and false claims. Hospitals, physician
    group practice clinics, and other health care facilities in our
    portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state and local
    licensure, certification, and inspection laws and regulations.
    Our tenants’ failure to comply with any of these laws could
    result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement,
    imposition of fines, suspension or decertification or exclusion
    from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or
    closure of the facility.



Licensing
    and Certification

The primary regulations that affect assisted living facilities
    are the states’ licensing laws. In granting and renewing
    these licenses, the regulatory authorities consider numerous
    factors relating to a property’s physical plant and
    operations including, but not limited to, admission and
    discharge standards and staffing and training. A decision to
    grant or renew a license is also affected by a property’s
    record with respect to patient and consumer rights and
    medication guidelines and rules. Certain of the senior housing
    facilities mortgaged to or owned by us may require the resident
    to pay an entrance or upfront fee, a portion of which may be
    refundable. These entrance fee communities are subject to
    significant state regulatory oversight, including, for example,
    oversight of each facility’s financial condition,
    establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements and other
    financial restrictions, the right of residents to cancel their
    contracts within a specified period of time, lien rights in
    favor of residents, restrictions on change of ownership and
    similar matters. Such oversight and the rights of residents
    within these entrance fee communities may have an effect on the
    revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and
    therefore may adversely affect us.

Skilled nursing facilities are subject to a variety of licensure
    and certificate of need (“CON”) laws and regulations.
    CON laws in those states that have them generally require a
    facility to demonstrate the need for constructing a new
    facility, expanding an existing facility, changing the ownership
    or control of an existing licensed facility, or terminating
    services that have been approved through the CON process. CONs,
    where applicable, generally are required before a covered
    facility can construct a new facility, add beds or expand
    services, invest in major capital equipment or add new services,
    or terminate services for which the facility has previously been
    awarded a CON and a license. The CON laws and regulations may
    restrict the ability of operators to add new properties or
    expand an existing facility’s size or services. In
    addition, CON laws may constrain the ability of an operator to
    transfer responsibility for operating a particular facility to a
    new operator. If we have to replace a barred property operator,
    our ability to replace the operator may be affected by CON rules
    and policies governing changes in control.

With respect to licensure, generally our skilled nursing and
    specialty care facilities are required to be licensed and
    certified for participation in the Medicare and Medicaid
    programs. This generally requires license renewals and
    compliance surveys on an annual or bi-annual basis. The failure
    of our operators to maintain or renew any required license or
    regulatory approval or the failure to correct serious survey
    deficiencies identified in compliance surveys could prevent them
    from continuing operations at a property. In addition, if a
    property is found out of compliance with the conditions of
    participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other health care
    programs, the property may be barred from participation in
    government reimbursement programs. Any of these occurrences may
    impair the ability of our operators to meet their obligations to
    us. If we have to replace a barred property operator, our
    ability to replace the operator may be affected by federal and
    state rules and policies governing changes in control. This may
    result in payment delays, an inability to find a replacement
    operator, a significant working capital commitment from us to a
    new operator or other difficulties.

Reimbursement

Assisted Living Facilities.

Approximately 23%
    of our rental revenues for the year ended December 31,
    2007, were attributable to assisted living facilities. The
    majority of the revenues received by the operators of our
    assisted living facilities are from private pay sources. The
    remaining revenue source is primarily Medicaid under certain
    waiver programs. As a part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
    Act (“OBRA”) of 1981, Congress established a waiver
    program enabling some states to offer Medicaid reimbursement to
    assisted living facilities as an alternative to institutional
    long-term care services. The provisions of OBRA and the
    subsequent OBRA Acts of 1987 and 1990 permit states to seek a
    waiver from typical Medicaid requirements to develop
    cost-effective alternatives to long-term care, including
    Medicaid payments for assisted living and home health. At
    December 31, 2007, five of our 24 assisted living operators
    received Medicaid reimbursement pursuant to Medicaid waiver
    programs. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2007,
    approximately 12% of the revenues at our assisted living
    facilities were from Medicaid reimbursement. There can be no
    guarantee that a state Medicaid program operating pursuant to a
    waiver will be able to maintain its waiver status. If a state
    loses its waiver status under Medicaid, the state will be unable
    to maintain Medicaid reimbursement to assisted living
    facilities, which will reduce the revenues of some of our
    operators, making it more difficult for such operators to cover
    expenses, including our rent or debt service.



Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and
    are largely determined by local market conditions and operating
    costs. Generally, facilities receive a higher payment per day
    for a private pay resident than for a Medicaid beneficiary who
    requires a comparable level of care. The level of Medicaid
    reimbursement varies from state to state. Thus, the revenues
    generated by operators of our assisted living facilities may be
    adversely affected by payor mix, acuity level and changes in
    Medicaid eligibility and reimbursement levels. In addition, a
    state could lose its Medicaid waiver and no longer be permitted
    to utilize Medicaid dollars to reimburse for assisted living
    services. Changes in revenues could in turn have a material
    adverse effect on an operator’s ability to meet its
    obligations to us.

Skilled Nursing Facilities and Specialty Care
    Facilities.

Skilled nursing and specialty care
    facilities typically receive most of their revenues from
    Medicare and Medicaid, with the balance representing private
    pay, including private insurance. Consequently, changes in
    federal or state reimbursement policies may also adversely
    affect an operator’s ability to cover its expenses,
    including our rent or debt service. Skilled nursing and
    specialty care facilities are subject to periodic pre- and
    post-payment reviews and other audits by federal and state
    authorities. A review or audit of claims of a property operator
    could result in recoupments, denials or delays of payments in
    the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the
    operator’s ability to meet its obligations to us. Due to
    the significant judgments and estimates inherent in payor
    settlement accounting, no assurance can be given as to the
    adequacy of any reserves maintained by our property operators
    for potential adjustments to reimbursements for payor
    settlements. Due to budgetary constraints, governmental payors
    may limit or reduce payments to skilled nursing and specialty
    care facilities. As a result of government reimbursement
    programs being subject to such budgetary pressures and
    legislative and administrative actions, an operator’s
    ability to meet its obligations to us may be significantly
    impaired.

Medicare Reimbursement and Skilled Nursing
    Facilities.

For the twelve months ended
    September 30, 2007, approximately 29% of the revenues at
    our skilled nursing facilities (which comprised 32% of our
    rental revenues for the year ended December 31,
    2007) were from Medicare reimbursement. In an effort to
    reduce federal spending on health care, the Balanced Budget Act
    of 1997 (“BBA”) fundamentally altered Medicare payment
    methodologies for skilled nursing facilities by mandating the
    institution of the skilled nursing facility prospective payment
    system. The prospective payment system shifted reimbursement
    from reasonable cost to a prospective fee schedule that
    generally reduced Medicare reimbursement for skilled nursing
    facility services. The reductions in Medicare payments resulted
    in immediate financial difficulties for skilled nursing
    facilities and caused a number of operators to seek bankruptcy
    protection. The federal government subsequently passed
    legislation to lessen the negative financial impact from the
    prospective payment system. These payment increases have since
    expired.

Skilled nursing facilities received a 3.3% inflationary market
    basket increase in Medicare payments for federal fiscal year
    2008, which represents $690 million of additional Medicare
    spending. Section 5008 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005
    directs the Secretary (as defined in that statute) to conduct a
    demonstration program beginning January 1, 2008 assessing
    the costs and outcomes of patients discharged from hospitals in
    a variety of post-acute care settings, including skilled nursing
    facilities. The outcome of that demonstration program could lead
    to changes in Medicare coverage and reimbursement for post-acute
    care. It is not known how either the demonstration program, or
    any other changes in Medicare reimbursement or regulatory
    obligations that might be proposed, might impact tenants of the
    Company’s properties.

The BBA mandated caps on Medicare reimbursement for certain
    therapy services. However, Congress imposed various moratoriums
    on the implementation of those caps. The moratoriums on the
    therapy caps for Part B outpatient rehabilitation services
    expired December 31, 2005. The annual payment cap of $1,810
    per patient applies to occupational therapy and a separate
    $1,810 cap applies to speech and physical therapy. Until
    June 30, 2008, patients exceeding the cap will be able to
    obtain additional Medicare coverage through a waiver program if
    the therapy is deemed medically necessary. If the waiver program
    is not further extended, patients will need to use private funds
    to pay for the cost of therapy above the caps. The waiver has
    historically been extended.

Medicare Reimbursement and Specialty Care
    Facilities.

For the twelve months ended
    September 30, 2007, approximately 39% of the revenues at
    our specialty care facilities (which comprised 5% of our rental
    revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007) were
    from Medicare. Specialty care facilities generally are
    reimbursed by Medicare under either the diagnosis related group
    prospective payment system reimbursement methodology for
    inpatient hospitals, or the long-term acute care hospital
    prospective payment system for long-term acute care hospitals.
    Acute care hospitals provide a wide range of inpatient and
    outpatient services including, but not limited



to, surgery, rehabilitation, therapy and clinical laboratories.
    Long-term acute care hospitals provide inpatient services for
    patients with complex medical conditions that require more
    intensive care, monitoring or emergency support than that
    available in most skilled nursing facilities.

With respect to Medicare’s diagnosis related
    group/outpatient prospective payment system methodology for
    regular hospitals, reimbursement for inpatient services is on
    the basis of a fixed, prospective rate based on the principal
    diagnosis of the patient. Hospitals are at risk to the extent
    that their costs in treating a specific case exceed the fixed
    payment. The diagnosis related group reimbursement system was
    significantly changed for 2008, with the expansion of diagnosis
    groups from 538 to 745 diagnosis related groups to greater
    reflect severity. It is possible that this change in the DRG
    system will adversely impact reimbursement for some of our
    hospitals. In some cases, a hospital might be able to qualify
    for an outlier payment if the hospital’s losses exceed a
    threshold.

Medicaid Reimbursement.

Medicaid is a major
    payor source for residents in our skilled nursing and specialty
    care facilities. For the twelve months ended September 30,
    2007, approximately 52% of the revenues of our skilled nursing
    facilities and 28% of the revenues of our specialty care
    facilities were attributable to Medicaid payments. The federal
    government and the states share responsibility for financing
    Medicaid. The federal matching rate, known as the Federal
    Medical Assistance Percentage, varies by state based on relative
    per capita income, but is at least 50% in all states. On
    average, Medicaid is the largest component of total state
    spending, representing approximately 22.0% of total state
    spending. The percentage of Medicaid dollars used for long-term
    care varies from state to state due in part to different ratios
    of elderly population and eligibility requirements. Within
    certain federal guidelines, states have a wide range of
    discretion to determine eligibility and reimbursement
    methodology. Many states reimburse long-term care facilities
    using fixed daily rates, which are applied prospectively based
    on patient acuity and the historical costs incurred in providing
    patient care. Reasonable costs typically include allowances for
    staffing, administrative and general, and property and equipment
    (e.g., real estate taxes, depreciation and fair rental).

In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse the cost of
    providing skilled nursing services. Certain states are
    attempting to slow the rate of growth in Medicaid expenditures
    by freezing rates or restricting eligibility and benefits.
    States in which we have skilled nursing property investments
    increased their per diem Medicaid rates roughly 3.3% on average
    for fiscal year 2008. Three of our states have effectively
    frozen rates for fiscal year 2008, which will impact
    profitability to the extent that expenses continue to rise. In
    addition, Medicaid rates may decline if revenues in a particular
    state are not sufficient to fund budgeted expenditures.

The Medicare Part D drug benefit became effective
    January 1, 2006. The direct impact on nursing facilities is
    that residents dually eligible for Medicare (and enrolled in one
    of the new Part D plans) and Medicaid now may enroll and
    receive reimbursement for drugs through Medicare Part D
    rather than through Medicaid. Part D will result in
    increased administrative responsibilities for nursing home
    operators because enrollment in Part D is voluntary and
    residents have the choice of multiple prescription drug plans.
    Operators may also experience increased expenses to the extent
    that patients’ specific prescribed drugs may not be on the
    Part D drug plan formulary for the plan in which specific
    patients are enrolled.

The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care
    facilities continue to evolve. Federal and state authorities
    have considered and may seek to implement new or modified
    reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health
    care property operations. The impact of any such change, if
    implemented, may result in a material adverse effect on our
    skilled nursing and specialty care property operations. No
    assurance can be given that current revenue sources or levels
    will be maintained. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that
    payments under a government reimbursement program are currently,
    or will be in the future, sufficient to fully reimburse the
    property operators for their operating and capital expenses. As
    a result, an operator’s ability to meet its obligations to
    us could be adversely impacted.

Other
    Related Laws

Skilled nursing and specialty care facilities (and assisted
    living facilities that receive Medicaid payments) are subject to
    federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the
    operations and financial and other arrangements that may be
    entered into by health care providers. Certain of these laws
    prohibit direct or indirect payments of any kind for the purpose
    of inducing or encouraging the referral of patients for medical
    products or services reimbursable by governmental programs.
    Other laws require providers to furnish only medically necessary



services and submit to the government valid and accurate
    statements for each service. Still other laws require providers
    to comply with a variety of safety, health and other
    requirements relating to the condition of the licensed property
    and the quality of care provided. Sanctions for violations of
    these laws and regulations may include, but are not limited to,
    criminal

and/or

civil
    penalties and fines and a loss of licensure, immediate
    termination of governmental payments, and exclusion from
    eligibility for any governmental reimbursement. In certain
    circumstances, violation of these rules (such as those
    prohibiting abusive and fraudulent behavior) with respect to one
    property may subject other facilities under common control or
    ownership to sanctions, including exclusion from participation
    in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In the ordinary course of
    its business, a property operator is regularly subjected to
    inquiries, investigations and audits by federal and state
    agencies that oversee these laws and regulations.

Each skilled nursing and specialty care property (and any
    assisted living property that receives Medicaid payments) is
    subject to the federal anti-kickback statute that generally
    prohibits persons from offering, providing, soliciting or
    receiving remuneration to induce either the referral of an
    individual or the furnishing of a good or service for which
    payment may be made under a federal health care program such as
    the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Skilled nursing and
    specialty care facilities are also subject to the federal Ethics
    in Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the
    Stark Law. The Stark Law generally prohibits the submission of
    claims to Medicare for payment if the claim results from a
    physician referral for certain designated services and the
    physician has a financial relationship with the health service
    provider that does not qualify under one of the exceptions for a
    financial relationship under the Stark Law. Similar prohibitions
    on physician self-referrals and submission of claims apply to
    state Medicaid programs. Further, skilled nursing and specialty
    care facilities (and assisted living facilities that receive
    Medicaid payments) are subject to substantial financial
    penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the False
    Claims Act and, in particular, actions under the False Claims
    Act’s “whistleblower” provisions. Private
    enforcement of health care fraud has increased due in large part
    to amendments to the False Claims Act that encourage private
    individuals to sue on behalf of the government. These
    whistleblower suits by private individuals, known as qui tam
    actions, may be filed by almost anyone, including present and
    former patients, nurses and other employees. Some cases have
    been brought under the federal False Claims Act asserting claims
    for treble damages and up to $11,000 per claim on the basis of
    the alleged failure of a nursing facility to meet applicable
    regulations relating to the operation of the nursing facility.
    Prosecutions, investigations or whistle blower actions could
    have a material adverse effect on a property operator’s
    liquidity, financial condition and results of operations which
    could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet its
    obligations to us. Finally, various state false claim and
    anti-kickback laws also may apply to each property operator.
    Violation of any of the foregoing statutes can result in
    criminal

and/or

civil
    penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the
    ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us.

Other legislative developments over the past several years,
    including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
    Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), have greatly expanded the
    definition of health care fraud and related offenses and
    broadened its scope to include private health care plans in
    addition to government payors. Congress also has greatly
    increased funding for the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau
    of Investigation and the Office of the Inspector General of the
    Department of Health and Human Services to audit, investigate
    and prosecute suspected health care fraud. Moreover, a
    significant portion of the billions in health care fraud
    recoveries over the past several years has also been returned to
    government agencies to further fund their fraud investigation
    and prosecution efforts.

Additionally, other HIPAA provisions and regulations provide for
    communication of health information through standard electronic
    transaction formats and for the privacy and security of health
    information. In order to comply with the regulations, health
    care providers must undergo significant operational and
    technical changes. Operators also face significant financial
    exposure if they fail to maintain the confidentiality of medical
    records and personal, identifiable health information about
    individuals.

In November 2002, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
    Services (CMS), an agency of the U.S. Department of Health
    and Human Services, began a national Nursing Home Quality
    Initiative (NHQI). Under this initiative, historical survey
    information, the NHQI Pilot Evaluation Report and the NHQI
    Overview is made available to the public on-line. The NHQI
    website provides consumer and provider information regarding the
    quality of care in nursing homes. The data allows consumers,
    providers, states and researchers to compare quality information
    that shows how well nursing homes are caring for their
    residents’ physical and clinical needs. The posted nursing
    home



quality measures come from resident assessment data that nursing
    homes routinely collect on the residents at specified intervals
    during their stay. If the operators of nursing facilities are
    unable to achieve quality of care ratings that are comparable or
    superior to those of their competitors, they may lose market
    share to other facilities, reducing their revenues and adversely
    impacting their ability to make rental payments.

Finally, government investigation and enforcement of health care
    laws has increased dramatically over the past several years and
    is expected to continue. Some of these enforcement actions
    represent novel legal theories and expansions in the application
    of false claims laws. The costs for an operator of a health care
    property associated with both defending such enforcement actions
    and the undertakings in settlement agreements can be substantial
    and could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an
    operator to meet its obligations to us.

Environmental
    Laws

A wide variety of federal, state and local environmental and
    occupational health and safety laws and regulations affect
    health care facility operations or special medical properties.
    Under various federal, state and local environmental laws,
    ordinances and regulations, an owner of real property or a
    secured lender (such as the Company) may be liable for the costs
    of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at,
    under or disposed of in connection with such property, as well
    as other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic
    substances (including government fines and damages for injuries
    to persons and adjacent property). The cost of any required
    remediation, removal, fines or personal or property damages and
    the owner’s or secured lender’s liability for such
    costs could exceed the value of the property,

and/or

the
    assets of the owner or secured lender. In addition, the presence
    of such substances, or the failure to properly dispose of or
    remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner’s
    ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such
    property as collateral which, in turn, would reduce revenues.

Taxation

Federal
    Income Tax Considerations

The following summary of the taxation of the Company and the
    material federal tax consequences to the holders of our debt and
    equity securities is for general information only and is not tax
    advice. This summary does not address all aspects of taxation
    that may be relevant to certain types of holders of stock or
    securities (including, but not limited to, insurance companies,
    tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers,
    persons holding shares of common stock as part of a hedging,
    integrated conversion, or constructive sale transaction or a
    straddle, traders in securities that use a

mark-to-market

method of accounting for their securities, investors in
    pass-through entities and foreign corporations and persons who
    are not citizens or residents of the United States).

This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of
    U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in
    light of your particular investment or other circumstances. In
    addition, this summary does not discuss any state or local
    income taxation or foreign income taxation or other tax
    consequences. This summary is based on current U.S. federal
    income tax law. Subsequent developments in U.S. federal
    income tax law, including changes in law or differing
    interpretations, which may be applied retroactively, could have
    a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax
    consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our
    securities as set forth in this summary. Before you purchase our
    securities, you should consult your own tax advisor regarding
    the particular U.S. federal, state, local, foreign and
    other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our
    securities.

General

We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (or
    “REIT”) commencing with our first taxable year. We
    intend to continue to operate in such a manner as to qualify as
    a REIT, but there is no guarantee that we will qualify or remain
    qualified as a REIT for subsequent years. Qualification and
    taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety of
    qualification tests imposed under federal income tax law with
    respect to income, assets, distribution level and diversity of
    share ownership as discussed below under
    “— Qualification as a REIT.” There can be no
    assurance that we will be owned and organized and will operate
    in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified.

In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general, we will
    not be subject to federal income tax on that portion of our REIT
    taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to
    stockholders. We may, however, be subject to tax at normal
    corporate rates on any taxable income or capital gain not
    distributed. If we elect to retain and pay



income tax on our net long-term capital gain, stockholders are
    required to include their proportionate share of our
    undistributed long-term capital gain in income, but they will
    receive a refundable credit for their share of any taxes paid by
    us on such gain.

Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to federal income
    and excise tax as follows:

•

To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital
    gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our
    “REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be subject
    to tax on the undistributed amount at regular corporate tax
    rates;

•

We may be subject to the “alternative minimum tax” on
    certain items of tax preference to the extent that this tax
    exceeds our regular tax;

•

If we have net income from the sale or other disposition of
    “foreclosure property” that is held primarily for sale
    to customers in the ordinary course of business or other
    non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, we will be
    subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on this income;

•

Any net income from prohibited transactions (which are, in
    general, sales or other dispositions of property held primarily
    for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other
    than dispositions of foreclosure property and dispositions of
    property due to an involuntary conversion) will be subject to a
    100% tax;

•

If we fail to satisfy either the 75% or 95% gross income tests
    (as discussed below), but nonetheless maintain our qualification
    as a REIT because certain other requirements are met, we will be
    subject to a 100% tax on an amount equal to (1) the gross
    income attributable to the greater of (i) 75% of our gross
    income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes
    of the 75% gross income test (discussed below) or (ii) 95%
    of our gross income (90% of our gross income for taxable years
    beginning on or before October 22, 2004) over the
    amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 95% gross
    income test (discussed below) multiplied by (2) a fraction
    intended to reflect our profitability;

•

If we fail to distribute during each year at least the sum of
    (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year,
    (2) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year
    (other than capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on)
    and (3) any undistributed taxable income from preceding
    periods, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the excess of
    such required distribution over amounts actually
    distributed; and

•

We will also be subject to a tax of 100% on the amount of any
    rents from real property, deductions or excess interest paid to
    us by any of our “taxable REIT subsidiaries” that
    would be reduced through reallocation under certain federal
    income tax principles in order to more clearly reflect income of
    the taxable REIT subsidiary. See “— Qualification
    as a REIT — Investments in Taxable REIT
    Subsidiaries.”

If we acquire any assets from a corporation which is or has been
    a “C” corporation in a carryover basis transaction, we
    could be liable for specified liabilities that are inherited
    from the “C” corporation. A “C” corporation
    is generally defined as a corporation that is required to pay
    full corporate level federal income tax. If we recognize gain on
    the disposition of the assets during the ten-year period
    beginning on the date on which the assets were acquired by us,
    then to the extent of the assets’ “built-in gain”
    (i.e., the excess of the fair market value of the asset over the
    adjusted tax basis in the asset, in each case determined as of
    the beginning of the ten-year period), we will be subject to tax
    on the gain at the highest regular corporate rate applicable.
    The results described in this paragraph with respect to the
    recognition of built-in gain assume that the built-in gain
    assets, at the time the built-in gain assets were subject to a
    conversion transaction (either where a “C” corporation
    elected REIT status or a REIT acquired the assets from a
    “C” corporation), were not treated as sold to an
    unrelated party and gain recognized.

Qualification
    as a REIT

A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or association:

(1)

which is managed by one or more trustees or directors;

(2)

the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable
    shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;

(3)

which would be taxable as a domestic corporation but for the
    federal income tax law relating to REITs;

(4)

which is neither a financial institution nor an insurance
    company;



(5)

the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons
    in each taxable year of the REIT except for its first taxable
    year;

(6)

not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is
    owned during the last half of each taxable year, excluding its
    first taxable year, directly or indirectly, by or for five or
    fewer individuals (which includes certain entities) (the
    “Five or Fewer Requirement”); and

(7)

which meets certain income and asset tests described below.

Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met during the
    entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at
    least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or
    during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than
    12 months. For purposes of conditions (5) and (6),
    pension funds and certain other tax-exempt entities are treated
    as individuals, subject to a “look-through” exception
    in the case of condition (6).

Based on publicly available information, we believe we have
    satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in
    (5) and (6) above. In addition, Article VI of our
    Amended and Restated By-Laws provides for restrictions regarding
    ownership and transfer of shares. These restrictions are
    intended to assist us in continuing to satisfy the share
    ownership requirements described in (5) and (6) above.
    These restrictions, however, may not ensure that we will, in all
    cases, be able to satisfy the share ownership requirements
    described in (5) and (6) above.

We have complied with, and will continue to comply with,
    regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our
    stockholders requesting information regarding the actual
    ownership of our stock. If, despite sending the annual letters,
    we do not know, or after exercising reasonable diligence would
    not have known, whether we failed to meet the Five or Fewer
    Requirement, we will be treated as having met the Five or Fewer
    Requirement. If we fail to comply with these regulatory rules,
    we will be subject to a monetary penalty. If our failure to
    comply was due to intentional disregard of the requirement, the
    penalty would be increased. However, if our failure to comply
    were due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty
    would be imposed.

We may own a number of properties through wholly owned
    subsidiaries. A corporation will qualify as a “qualified
    REIT subsidiary” if 100% of its stock is owned by a REIT
    and the REIT does not elect to treat the subsidiary as a taxable
    REIT subsidiary. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” will
    not be treated as a separate corporation, and all assets,
    liabilities and items of income, deductions and credits of a
    “qualified REIT subsidiary” will be treated as assets,
    liabilities and items (as the case may be) of the REIT. A
    “qualified REIT subsidiary” is not subject to federal
    income tax, and our ownership of the voting stock of a qualified
    REIT subsidiary will not violate the restrictions against
    ownership of securities of any one issuer which constitute more
    than 10% of the value or total voting power of such issuer or
    more than 5% of the value of our total assets, as described
    below under “— Asset Tests.”

If we invest in a partnership, a limited liability company or a
    trust taxed as a partnership or as a disregarded entity, we will
    be deemed to own a proportionate share of the
    partnership’s, limited liability company’s or
    trust’s assets. Likewise, we will be treated as receiving
    our share of the income and loss of the partnership, limited
    liability company or trust, and the gross income will retain the
    same character in our hands as it has in the hands of the
    partnership, limited liability company or trust. These
    “look-through” rules apply for purposes of the income
    tests and assets tests described below.

Income Tests.

There are two separate
    percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that we
    must satisfy for each taxable year.

•

At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from
    certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
    directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from
    “rents from real property,” other income from
    investments relating to real property or mortgages on real
    property or certain income from qualified temporary investments.

•

At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from
    certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
    directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from any of the
    sources qualifying for the 75% gross income test and from
    dividends (including dividends from taxable REIT subsidiaries)
    and interest.

For taxable years beginning on or before October 22, 2004,
    (1) payments to us under an interest rate swap or cap
    agreement, option, futures contract, forward rate agreement or
    any similar financial instrument entered into by us to reduce
    interest rate risk on indebtedness incurred or to be incurred
    and (2) gain from the sale or other



disposition of any such investment are treated as income
    qualifying under the 95% gross income test. As to transactions
    entered into in taxable years beginning after October 22,
    2004, any of our income from a “clearly identified”
    hedging transaction that is entered into by us in the normal
    course of business, directly or indirectly, to manage the risk
    of interest rate movements, price changes or currency
    fluctuations with respect to borrowings or obligations incurred
    or to be incurred by us, or such other risks that are prescribed
    by the Internal Revenue Service, is excluded from the 95% gross
    income test. In general, a hedging transaction is “clearly
    identified” if (1) the transaction is identified as a
    hedging transaction before the end of the day on which it is
    entered into and (2) the items or risks being hedged are
    identified “substantially contemporaneously” with the
    hedging transaction. An identification is not substantially
    contemporaneous if it is made more than 35 days after
    entering into the hedging transaction.

Rents received by us will qualify as “rents from real
    property” for purposes of satisfying the gross income tests
    for a REIT only if several conditions are met:

•

The amount of rent must not be based in whole or in part on the
    income or profits of any person, although rents generally will
    not be excluded merely because they are based on a fixed
    percentage or percentages of receipts or sales.

•

Rents received from a tenant will not qualify as rents from real
    property if the REIT, or an owner of 10% or more of the REIT,
    also directly or constructively owns 10% or more of the tenant,
    unless the tenant is our taxable REIT subsidiary and certain
    other requirements are met with respect to the real property
    being rented.

•

If rent attributable to personal property leased in connection
    with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the total
    rent received under the lease, then the portion of rent
    attributable to such personal property will not qualify as
    “rents from real property.”

•

For rents to qualify as rents from real property, we generally
    must not furnish or render services to tenants, other than
    through a taxable REIT subsidiary or an “independent
    contractor” from whom we derive no income, except that we
    may directly provide services that are “usually or
    customarily rendered” in the geographic area in which the
    property is located in connection with the rental of real
    property for occupancy only, or are not otherwise considered
    “rendered to the occupant for his convenience.”

For taxable years beginning after August 5, 1997, a REIT
    has been permitted to render a de minimis amount of
    impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts
    received with respect to that property as rent from real
    property. The amount received or accrued by the REIT during the
    taxable year for the impermissible services with respect to a
    property may not exceed 1% of all amounts received or accrued by
    the REIT directly or indirectly from the property. The amount
    received for any service or management operation for this
    purpose shall be deemed to be not less than 150% of the direct
    cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or
    providing the management or operation. Furthermore,
    impermissible services may be furnished to tenants by a taxable
    REIT subsidiary subject to certain conditions, and we may still
    treat rents received with respect to the property as rent from
    real property.

The term “interest” generally does not include any
    amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in
    part on the income or profits of any person, although an amount
    generally will not be excluded from the term
    “interest” solely by reason of being based on a fixed
    percentage of receipts or sales.

If we fail to satisfy one or both of the 75% or 95% gross income
    tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a
    REIT for such year if we are eligible for relief. For taxable
    years beginning on or before October 22, 2004, these relief
    provisions generally will be available if (1) our failure
    to meet such tests was due to reasonable cause and not due to
    willful neglect; (2) we attach a schedule of the sources of
    our income to our return; and (3) any incorrect information
    on the schedule was not due to fraud with intent to evade tax.
    For taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, these
    relief provisions generally will be available if
    (1) following our identification of the failure, we file a
    schedule for such taxable year describing each item of our gross
    income and (2) the failure to meet such tests was due to
    reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect.

It is not now possible to determine the circumstances under
    which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief
    provisions. If these relief provisions apply, a 100% tax is
    imposed on an amount equal to (a) the gross income
    attributable to (1) 75% of our gross income over the amount
    of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75% income test
    and (2) 95% of our gross income (90% of our gross income
    for taxable years beginning on or before



October 22, 2004) over the amount of qualifying gross
    income for purposes of the 95% income test, multiplied by
    (b) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability.

Asset Tests.

Within 30 days after the
    close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy
    several tests relating to the nature and diversification of our
    assets determined in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles. At least 75% of the value of our total
    assets must be represented by real estate assets, cash, cash
    items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of
    our operation), government securities and qualified temporary
    investments. Although the remaining 25% of our assets generally
    may be invested without restriction, we are prohibited from
    owning securities representing more than 10% of either the vote
    (the “10% vote test”) or value (the “10% value
    test”) of the outstanding securities of any issuer other
    than a qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT or a taxable REIT
    subsidiary. Further, no more than 20% of the total assets may be
    represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT
    subsidiaries (the “20% asset test”) and no more than
    5% of the value of our total assets may be represented by
    securities of any non-governmental issuer other than a qualified
    REIT subsidiary (the “5% asset test”), another REIT or
    a taxable REIT subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote test, the 10%
    value test and the 20% and 5% asset tests must be satisfied at
    the end of each quarter. There are special rules which provide
    relief if the value related tests are not satisfied due to
    changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.

For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000,
    certain items are excluded from the 10% value test, including
    (1) straight debt securities of an issuer (including
    straight debt that provides certain contingent payments);
    (2) any loan to an individual or an estate; (3) any
    rental agreement described in Section 467 of the Internal
    Revenue Code, other than with a “related person”;
    (4) any obligation to pay rents from real property;
    (5) certain securities issued by a state or any subdivision
    thereof, the District of Columbia, a foreign government, or any
    political subdivision thereof, or the Commonwealth of Puerto
    Rico; (6) any security issued by a REIT; and (7) any
    other arrangement that, as determined by the Secretary of the
    Treasury, is excepted from the definition of security
    (“excluded securities”). Special rules apply to
    straight debt securities issued by corporations and entities
    taxable as partnerships for federal income tax purposes. If a
    REIT, or its taxable REIT subsidiary, holds (1) straight
    debt securities of a corporate or partnership issuer and
    (2) securities of such issuer that are not excluded
    securities and have an aggregate value greater than 1% of such
    issuer’s outstanding securities, the straight debt
    securities will be included in the 10% value test.

For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, a
    REIT’s interest as a partner in a partnership is not
    treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value
    test to securities issued by the partnership. Further, any debt
    instrument issued by a partnership will not be a security for
    purposes of applying the 10% value test (1) to the extent
    of the REIT’s interest as a partner in the partnership and
    (2) if at least 75% of the partnership’s gross income
    (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would
    qualify for the 75% gross income test. For taxable years
    beginning after October 22, 2004, for purposes of the 10%
    value test, a REIT’s interest in a partnership’s
    assets is the REIT’s proportionate interest in any
    securities issued by the partnership (other than the excluded
    securities described in the preceding paragraph).

With respect to corrections of failures for which the
    requirements for corrections are satisfied after
    October 22, 2004, regardless of whether such failures
    occurred in taxable years beginning on, before or after such
    date, as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test
    or the 5% asset test, a REIT may avoid disqualification as a
    REIT by disposing of sufficient assets to cure a violation that
    does not exceed the lesser of 1% of the REIT’s assets at
    the end of the relevant quarter or $10,000,000, provided that
    the disposition occurs within six months following the last day
    of the quarter in which the REIT first identified the assets.
    For violations of any of the REIT asset tests due to reasonable
    cause and not willful neglect that exceed the thresholds
    described in the preceding sentence, a REIT can avoid
    disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter
    by taking certain steps, including disposition of sufficient
    assets within the six month period described above to meet the
    applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to the greater of
    $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net
    income generated by the non-qualifying assets during the period
    of time that the assets were held as non-qualifying assets and
    filing a schedule with the Internal Revenue Service that
    describes the non-qualifying assets.

Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries.

For
    taxable years beginning after December 31, 2000, REITs may
    own more than 10% of the voting power and value of securities in
    taxable REIT subsidiaries. We and any taxable corporate entity
    in which we own an interest are allowed to jointly elect to
    treat such entity as a “taxable REIT subsidiary.”



Certain of our subsidiaries have elected to be treated as a
    taxable REIT subsidiary. Taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject
    to full corporate level federal taxation on their earnings but
    are permitted to engage in certain types of activities that
    cannot be performed directly by REITs without jeopardizing their
    REIT status. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries will attempt to
    minimize the amount of these taxes, but there can be no
    assurance whether or the extent to which measures taken to
    minimize taxes will be successful. To the extent our taxable
    REIT subsidiaries are required to pay federal, state or local
    taxes, the cash available for distribution as dividends to us
    from our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be reduced.

The amount of interest on related-party debt that a taxable REIT
    subsidiary may deduct is limited. Further, a 100% tax applies to
    any interest payments by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its
    affiliated REIT to the extent the interest rate is not
    commercially reasonable. A taxable REIT subsidiary is permitted
    to deduct interest payments to unrelated parties without any of
    these restrictions.

The Internal Revenue Service may reallocate costs between a REIT
    and its taxable REIT subsidiary where there is a lack of
    arm’s-length dealing between the parties. Any deductible
    expenses allocated away from a taxable REIT subsidiary would
    increase its tax liability. Further, any amount by which a REIT
    understates its deductions and overstates those of its taxable
    REIT subsidiary will, subject to certain exceptions, be subject
    to a 100% tax. Additional taxable REIT subsidiary elections may
    be made in the future for additional entities in which we own an
    interest.

Annual Distribution Requirements.

In order to
    avoid being taxed as a regular corporation, we are required to
    make distributions (other than capital gain distributions) to
    our stockholders which qualify for the dividends paid deduction
    in an amount at least equal to (1) the sum of (i) 90%
    of our “REIT taxable income” (computed without regard
    to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and
    (ii) 90% of the after-tax net income, if any, from
    foreclosure property, minus (2) a portion of certain items
    of non-cash income. These distributions must be paid in the
    taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable
    year if declared before we timely file our tax return for that
    year and if paid on or before the first regular distribution
    payment after such declaration. The amount distributed must not
    be preferential. This means that every stockholder of the class
    of stock to which a distribution is made must be treated the
    same as every other stockholder of that class, and no class of
    stock may be treated otherwise than in accordance with its
    dividend rights as a class. To the extent that we do not
    distribute all of our net capital gain or distribute at least
    90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT taxable income,”
    as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed
    amount at regular corporate tax rates. Finally, as discussed
    above, we may be subject to an excise tax if we fail to meet
    certain other distribution requirements. We intend to make
    timely distributions sufficient to satisfy these annual
    distribution requirements.

It is possible that, from time to time, we may not have
    sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90%
    distribution requirement, or to distribute such greater amount
    as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to,
    among other things, (1) timing differences between
    (i) the actual receipt of income and actual payment of
    deductible expenses and (ii) the inclusion of income and
    deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or
    (2) the payment of severance benefits that may not be
    deductible to us. In the event that timing differences occur, we
    may find it necessary to arrange for borrowings or, if possible,
    pay dividends in the form of taxable stock dividends in order to
    meet the distribution requirement.

Under certain circumstances, in the event of a deficiency
    determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be able to
    rectify a resulting failure to meet the distribution requirement
    for a year by paying “deficiency dividends” to
    stockholders in a later year, which may be included in our
    deduction for distributions paid for the earlier year. Thus, we
    may be able to avoid being taxed on amounts distributed as
    deficiency distributions; however, we will be required to pay
    applicable penalties and interest based upon the amount of any
    deduction taken for deficiency distributions.

Failure
    to Qualify as a REIT

If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable
    year, we will be subject to federal income tax, including any
    applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at
    regular corporate rates. Distributions to stockholders in any
    year in which we fail to qualify as a REIT will not be
    deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions be
    required to be made in any year. All distributions to
    stockholders will be taxable as ordinary income to the extent of
    current and accumulated earnings and profits allocable to these
    distributions and, subject to



certain limitations, will be eligible for the dividends received
    deduction for corporate stockholders. Unless entitled to relief
    under specific statutory provisions, we also will be
    disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years
    following the year during which qualification was lost. It is
    not possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be
    entitled to statutory relief. Failure to qualify for even one
    year could result in our need to incur indebtedness or liquidate
    investments in order to pay potentially significant resulting
    tax liabilities.

In addition to the relief described above under
    “— Income Tests” and “— Asset
    Tests,” relief is available in the event that we violate a
    provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would result in our
    failure to qualify as a REIT if (1) the violation is due to
    reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect, (2) we pay
    a penalty of $50,000 for each failure to satisfy the provision,
    and (3) the violation does not include a violation
    described under “— Income Tests” or
    “— Asset Tests” above. It is not now
    possible to determine the circumstances under which we may be
    entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions.

Federal
    Income Taxation of Holders of Our Stock

Treatment of Taxable
    U.S. Stockholders.

The following summary
    applies to you only if you are a
    “U.S. stockholder.” A
    “U.S. stockholder” is a stockholder of shares of
    stock who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is:

•

a citizen or resident of the United States;

•

a corporation, partnership or other entity classified as a
    corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
    organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any
    political subdivision of the United States, including any state;

•

an estate, the income of which is subject to United States
    federal income taxation regardless of its source; or

•

a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is able to exercise
    primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one
    or more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal
    Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the
    trust’s substantial decisions.

So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT, distributions on
    shares of our stock made out of the current or accumulated
    earnings and profits allocable to these distributions (and not
    designated as capital gain dividends) will be includable as
    ordinary income for federal income tax purposes. None of these
    distributions will be eligible for the dividends received
    deduction for U.S. corporate stockholders.

Generally, for taxable years ending after May 6, 2003
    through December 31, 2010, the maximum marginal rate of tax
    payable by individuals on dividends received from corporations
    that are subject to a corporate level of tax is 15%. Except in
    limited circumstances, this tax rate will not apply to dividends
    paid to you by us on our shares, because generally we are not
    subject to federal income tax on the portion of our REIT taxable
    income or capital gains distributed to our stockholders. The
    reduced maximum federal income tax rate will apply to that
    portion, if any, of dividends received by you with respect to
    our shares that are attributable to: (1) dividends received
    by us from non-REIT corporations or other taxable REIT
    subsidiaries; (2) income from the prior year with respect
    to which we were required to pay federal corporate income tax
    during the prior year (if, for example, we did not distribute
    100% of our REIT taxable income for the prior year); or
    (3) the amount of any earnings and profits that were
    distributed by us and accumulated in a non-REIT year.

Distributions that are designated as capital gain dividends will
    be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not
    exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year),
    without regard to the period for which you held our stock.
    However, if you are a corporation, you may be required to treat
    a portion of some capital gain dividends as ordinary income.

If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net long-term
    capital gain, you would include in income, as long-term capital
    gain, your proportionate share of this net long-term capital
    gain. You would also receive a refundable tax credit for your
    proportionate share of the tax paid by us on such retained
    capital gains and you would have an increase in the basis of
    your shares of our stock in an amount equal to your includable
    capital gains less your share of the tax deemed paid.

You may not include in your federal income tax return any of our
    net operating losses or capital losses. Federal income tax rules
    may also require that certain minimum tax adjustments and
    preferences be apportioned to you. In addition, any distribution
    declared by us in October, November or December of any year on a
    specified date in any



such month shall be treated as both paid by us and received by
    you on December 31 of that year, provided that the distribution
    is actually paid by us no later than January 31 of the following
    year.

We will be treated as having sufficient earnings and profits to
    treat as a dividend any distribution up to the amount required
    to be distributed in order to avoid imposition of the 4% excise
    tax discussed under “— General” and
    “— Qualification as a REIT — Annual
    Distribution Requirements” above. As a result, you may be
    required to treat as taxable dividends certain distributions
    that would otherwise result in a tax-free return of capital.
    Moreover, any “deficiency dividend” will be treated as
    a dividend (an ordinary dividend or a capital gain dividend, as
    the case may be), regardless of our earnings and profits. Any
    other distributions in excess of current or accumulated earnings
    and profits will not be taxable to you to the extent these
    distributions do not exceed the adjusted tax basis of your
    shares of our stock. You will be required to reduce the tax
    basis of your shares of our stock by the amount of these
    distributions until the basis has been reduced to zero, after
    which these distributions will be taxable as capital gain, if
    the shares of our stock are held as a capital asset. The tax
    basis as so reduced will be used in computing the capital gain
    or loss, if any, realized upon sale of the shares of our stock.
    Any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our stock which
    were held for six months or less (after application of certain
    holding period rules) will generally be treated as a long-term
    capital loss to the extent you previously received capital gain
    distributions with respect to these shares of our stock.

Upon the sale or exchange of any shares of our stock to or with
    a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of
    our stock (whether actually or constructively owned) with us,
    you will generally recognize capital gain or loss equal to the
    difference between the amount realized on the sale or exchange
    and your adjusted tax basis in these shares of our stock. This
    gain will be capital gain if you held these shares of our stock
    as a capital asset.

If we redeem any of your shares in us, the treatment can only be
    determined on the basis of particular facts at the time of
    redemption. In general, you will recognize gain or loss (as
    opposed to dividend income) equal to the difference between the
    amount received by you in the redemption and your adjusted tax
    basis in your shares redeemed if such redemption results in a
    “complete termination” of your interest in all classes
    of our equity securities, is a “substantially
    disproportionate redemption” or is “not essentially
    equivalent to a dividend” with respect to you. In applying
    these tests, there must be taken into account your ownership of
    all classes of our equity securities (e.g., common stock,
    preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants). You also must
    take into account any equity securities that are considered to
    be constructively owned by you.

If, as a result of a redemption by us of your shares, you no
    longer own (either actually or constructively) any of our equity
    securities or only own (actually and constructively) an
    insubstantial percentage of our equity securities, then it is
    probable that the redemption of your shares would be considered
    “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” and, thus,
    would result in gain or loss to you. However, whether a
    distribution is “not essentially equivalent to a
    dividend” depends on all of the facts and circumstances,
    and if you rely on any of these tests at the time of redemption,
    you should consult your tax advisor to determine their
    application to the particular situation.

Generally, if the redemption does not meet the tests described
    above, then the proceeds received by you from the redemption of
    your shares will be treated as a distribution taxable as a
    dividend to the extent of the allocable portion of current or
    accumulated earnings and profits. If the redemption is taxed as
    a dividend, your adjusted tax basis in the redeemed shares will
    be transferred to any other shareholdings in us that you own. If
    you own no other shareholdings in us, under certain
    circumstances, such basis may be transferred to a related
    person, or it may be lost entirely.

Gain from the sale or exchange of our shares held for more than
    one year is taxed at a maximum long-term capital gain rate,
    which is currently 15%. Pursuant to Internal Revenue Service
    guidance, we may classify portions of our capital gain dividends
    as gains eligible for the long-term capital gains rate or as
    gain taxable to individual stockholders at a maximum rate of 25%.

Treatment of Tax-Exempt
    U.S. Stockholders.

Tax-exempt entities,
    including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts
    and individual retirement accounts (“Exempt
    Organizations”), generally are exempt from federal income
    taxation. However, they are subject to taxation on their
    unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). The
    Internal Revenue Service has issued a published revenue ruling
    that dividend distributions from a REIT to an exempt employee
    pension trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares
    of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or
    business of the exempt employee pension trust. Based on this
    ruling, amounts distributed by us to Exempt Organizations
    generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an Exempt
    Organization finances its



acquisition of the shares of our stock with debt, a portion of
    its income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the
    “debt financed property” rules. Likewise, a portion of
    the Exempt Organization’s income from us would constitute
    UBTI if we held a residual interest in a real estate mortgage
    investment conduit.

In addition, in certain circumstances, a pension trust that owns
    more than 10% of our stock is required to treat a percentage of
    our dividends as UBTI. This rule applies to a pension trust
    holding more than 10% of our stock only if (1) the
    percentage of our income that is UBTI (determined as if we were
    a pension trust) is at least 5%, (2) we qualify as a REIT
    by reason of the modification of the Five or Fewer Requirement
    that allows beneficiaries of the pension trust to be treated as
    holding shares in proportion to their actuarial interests in the
    pension trust, and (3) either (i) one pension trust
    owns more than 25% of the value of our stock or (ii) a
    group of pension trusts individually holding more than 10% of
    the value of our stock collectively own more than 50% of the
    value of our stock.

Backup Withholding and Information
    Reporting.

Under certain circumstances, you may
    be subject to backup withholding at applicable rates on payments
    made with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange of,
    shares of our stock. Backup withholding will apply only if you:
    (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification
    number, which if you are an individual, is ordinarily your
    social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer
    identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
    Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments
    of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under
    penalties of perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer
    identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has
    not notified you that you are subject to backup withholding.

Backup withholding will not apply with respect to payments made
    to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and
    tax-exempt organizations. You should consult with a tax advisor
    regarding qualification for exemption from backup withholding,
    and the procedure for obtaining an exemption. Backup withholding
    is not an additional tax. Rather, the amount of any backup
    withholding with respect to payment to a stockholder will be
    allowed as a credit against such stockholder’s United
    States federal income tax liability and may entitle such
    stockholder to a refund, provided that the required information
    is provided to the Internal Revenue Service. In addition,
    withholding a portion of capital gain distributions made to
    stockholders may be required for stockholders who fail to
    certify their non-foreign status.

Taxation of Foreign Stockholders.

The
    following summary applies to you only if you are a foreign
    person. The federal taxation of foreign persons is a highly
    complex matter that may be affected by many considerations.

Except as discussed below, distributions to you of cash
    generated by our real estate operations in the form of ordinary
    dividends, but not by the sale or exchange of our capital
    assets, generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax
    at a rate of 30%, unless an applicable tax treaty reduces that
    tax and you file with us the required form evidencing the lower
    rate.

In general, you will be subject to United States federal income
    tax on a graduated rate basis rather than withholding with
    respect to your investment in our stock if such investment is
    “effectively connected” with your conduct of a trade
    or business in the United States. A corporate foreign
    stockholder that receives income that is, or is treated as,
    effectively connected with a United States trade or business may
    also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is payable in
    addition to regular United States corporate income tax. The
    following discussion will apply to foreign stockholders whose
    investment in us is not so effectively connected. We expect to
    withhold United States income tax, as described below, on the
    gross amount of any distributions paid to you unless
    (1) you file an Internal Revenue Service

Form W-8ECI

with us claiming that the distribution is “effectively
    connected” or (2) certain other exceptions apply.

Distributions by us that are attributable to gain from the sale
    or exchange of a United States real property interest will be
    taxed to you under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax
    Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if these distributions were
    gains “effectively connected” with a United States
    trade or business. Accordingly, you will be taxed at the normal
    capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. stockholder on
    these amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax
    and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident
    alien individuals. Distributions subject to FIRPTA may also be
    subject to a branch profits tax in the hands of a corporate
    foreign stockholder that is not entitled to treaty exemption.



We will be required to withhold from distributions subject to
    FIRPTA, and remit to the Internal Revenue Service, 35% of
    designated capital gain dividends, or, if greater, 35% of the
    amount of any distributions that could be designated as capital
    gain dividends. In addition, if we designate prior distributions
    as capital gain dividends, subsequent distributions, up to the
    amount of the prior distributions not withheld against, will be
    treated as capital gain dividends for purposes of withholding.

For taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, any
    capital gain dividend with respect to any class of stock that is
    “regularly traded” on an established securities market
    will be treated as an ordinary dividend if the foreign
    stockholder did not own more than 5% of such class of stock at
    any time during the taxable year. Once this provision takes
    effect, foreign stockholders generally will not be required to
    report distributions received from us on U.S. federal
    income tax returns and all distributions treated as dividends
    for U.S. federal income tax purposes including any capital
    gain dividend will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax
    (unless reduced under an applicable income tax treaty) as
    discussed above. In addition, the branch profits tax will no
    longer apply to such distributions.

Unless our shares constitute a “United States real property
    interest” within the meaning of FIRPTA or are effectively
    connected with a U.S. trade or business, a sale of our
    shares by you generally will not be subject to United States
    taxation. Our shares will not constitute a United States real
    property interest if we qualify as a “domestically
    controlled REIT.” We do, and expect to continue to, qualify
    as a domestically controlled REIT. A domestically controlled
    REIT is a REIT in which at all times during a specified testing
    period less than 50% in value of its shares is held directly or
    indirectly by foreign stockholders. However, if you are a
    nonresident alien individual who is present in the United States
    for 183 days or more during the taxable year and certain
    other conditions apply, you will be subject to a 30% tax on such
    capital gains. In any event, a purchaser of our shares from you
    will not be required under FIRPTA to withhold on the purchase
    price if the purchased shares are “regularly traded”
    on an established securities market or if we are a domestically
    controlled REIT. Otherwise, under FIRPTA, the purchaser may be
    required to withhold 10% of the purchase price and remit such
    amount to the Internal Revenue Service.

Backup withholding tax and information reporting will generally
    not apply to distributions paid to you outside the United States
    that are treated as (1) dividends to which the 30% or lower
    treaty rate withholding tax discussed above applies;
    (2) capital gains dividends; or (3) distributions
    attributable to gain from the sale or exchange by us of
    U.S. real property interests. Payment of the proceeds of a
    sale of stock within the United States or conducted through
    certain U.S. related financial intermediaries is subject to
    both backup withholding and information reporting unless the
    beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that he or
    she is not a U.S. person (and the payor does not have
    actual knowledge that the beneficial owner is a
    U.S. person) or otherwise established an exemption. You may
    obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup
    withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund
    with the Internal Revenue Service.

U.S.
    Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Depositary
    Shares

Owners of our depositary shares will be treated as if you were
    owners of the series of preferred stock represented by the
    depositary shares. Thus, you will be required to take into
    account the income and deductions to which you would be entitled
    if you were a holder of the underlying series of preferred stock.

Conversion or Exchange of Shares for Preferred
    Stock.

No gain or loss will be recognized upon
    the withdrawal of preferred stock in exchange for depositary
    shares and the tax basis of each share of preferred stock will,
    upon exchange, be the same as the aggregate tax basis of the
    depositary shares exchanged. If you held your depositary shares
    as a capital asset at the time of the exchange for shares of
    preferred stock, the holding period for your shares of preferred
    stock will include the period during which you owned the
    depositary shares.

U.S.
    Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Debt
    Securities

The following is a general summary of the United States federal
    income tax consequences and, in the case that you are a holder
    that is a

non-U.S. holder,

as defined below, the United States federal estate tax
    consequences, of purchasing, owning and disposing of debt
    securities periodically offered under one or more indentures
    (the “notes”). This summary assumes that you hold the
    notes as capital assets. This summary applies to you only if you
    are the initial holder of the notes and you acquire the notes
    for a price equal to the issue price of the notes. The issue
    price of the notes is the first price at which a substantial
    amount of the notes is sold other than to bond houses, brokers
    or similar persons or organizations acting in the capacity of
    underwriters, placement agents or wholesalers. In



addition, this summary does not consider any foreign, state,
    local or other tax laws that may be applicable to us or a
    purchaser of the notes.

U.S.
    Holders

The following summary applies to you only if you are a
    U.S. holder, as defined below.

Definition of a U.S. Holder.

A
    “U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner of a note or
    notes that is for United States federal income tax purposes:

•

a citizen or resident of the United States;

•

a corporation, partnership or other entity classified as a
    corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
    organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any
    political subdivision of the United States, including any state;

•

an estate, the income of which is subject to United States
    federal income taxation regardless of its source; or

•

a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is able to exercise
    primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one
    or more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal
    Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the
    trust’s substantial decisions.

Payments of Interest.

Stated interest on the
    notes generally will be taxed as ordinary interest income from
    domestic sources at the time it is paid or accrues in accordance
    with your method of accounting for tax purposes.

Sale, Exchange or Other Disposition of
    Notes.

The adjusted tax basis in your note
    acquired at a premium will generally be your cost. You generally
    will recognize taxable gain or loss when you sell or otherwise
    dispose of your notes equal to the difference, if any, between:

•

the amount realized on the sale or other disposition, less any
    amount attributable to any accrued interest, which will be
    taxable in the manner described under “— Payments
    of Interest” above; and

•

your adjusted tax basis in the notes.

Your gain or loss generally will be capital gain or loss. This
    capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if
    at the time of the sale or other disposition you have held the
    notes for more than one year. Subject to limited exceptions,
    your capital losses cannot be used to offset your ordinary
    income.

Backup Withholding and Information
    Reporting.

In general, “backup
    withholding” may apply to any payments made to you of
    principal and interest on your note, and to payment of the
    proceeds of a sale or other disposition of your note before
    maturity, if you are a non-corporate U.S. holder and
    (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification
    number, which if you are an individual, is ordinarily your
    social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer
    identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
    Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments
    of interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under
    penalties of perjury, that you have furnished a correct taxpayer
    identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has
    not notified you that you are subject to backup withholding.

The amount of any reportable payments, including interest, made
    to you (unless you are an exempt recipient) and the amount of
    tax withheld, if any, with respect to such payments will be
    reported to you and to the Internal Revenue Service for each
    calendar year. You should consult your tax advisor regarding
    your qualification for an exemption from backup withholding and
    the procedures for obtaining such an exemption, if applicable.
    The backup withholding tax is not an additional tax and will be
    credited against your U.S. federal income tax liability,
    provided that correct information is provided to the Internal
    Revenue Service.

Non-U.S.

Holders

The following summary applies to you if you are a beneficial
    owner of a note and are not a U.S. holder, as defined above
    (a

“non-U.S. holder”).

Special rules may apply to certain

non-U.S. holders

such as “controlled foreign corporations,”
    “passive foreign investment companies” and
    “foreign personal holding companies.” Such entities
    are encouraged to consult their tax advisors to determine the
    United States federal, state, local and other tax consequences
    that may be relevant to them.



U.S. Federal Withholding Tax.

Subject to
    the discussion below, U.S. federal withholding tax will not
    apply to payments by us or our paying agent, in its capacity as
    such, of principal and interest on your notes under the
    “portfolio interest” exception of the Internal Revenue
    Code, provided that:

•

you do not, directly or indirectly, actually or constructively,
    own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all
    classes of our stock entitled to vote;

•

you are not (1) a controlled foreign corporation for
    U.S. federal income tax purposes that is related, directly
    or indirectly, to us through sufficient stock ownership, as
    provided in the Internal Revenue Code, or (2) a bank
    receiving interest described in Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the
    Internal Revenue Code;

•

such interest is not effectively connected with your conduct of
    a U.S. trade or business; and

•

you provide a signed written statement, under penalties of
    perjury, which can reliably be related to you, certifying that
    you are not a U.S. person within the meaning of the
    Internal Revenue Code and providing your name and address to:

•

us or our paying agent; or

•

a securities clearing organization, bank or other financial
    institution that holds customers’ securities in the
    ordinary course of its trade or business and holds your notes on
    your behalf and that certifies to us or our paying agent under
    penalties of perjury that it, or the bank or financial
    institution between it and you, has received from you your
    signed, written statement and provides us or our paying agent
    with a copy of such statement.

Treasury regulations provide that:

•

if you are a foreign partnership, the certification requirement
    will generally apply to your partners, and you will be required
    to provide certain information;

•

if you are a foreign trust, the certification requirement will
    generally be applied to you or your beneficial owners depending
    on whether you are a “foreign complex trust,”
    “foreign simple trust,” or “foreign grantor
    trust” as defined in the Treasury regulations; and

•

look-through rules will apply for tiered partnerships, foreign
    simple trusts and foreign grantor trusts.

If you are a foreign partnership or a foreign trust, you should
    consult your own tax advisor regarding your status under these
    Treasury regulations and the certification requirements
    applicable to you.

If you cannot satisfy the portfolio interest requirements
    described above, payments of interest will be subject to the 30%
    United States withholding tax, unless you provide us with a
    properly executed (1) Internal Revenue Service

Form W-8BEN

claiming an exemption from or reduction in withholding under the
    benefit of an applicable treaty or (2) Internal Revenue
    Service

Form W-8ECI

stating that interest paid on the note is not subject to
    withholding tax because it is effectively connected with your
    conduct of a trade or business in the United States. Alternative
    documentation may be applicable in certain circumstances.

If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States
    and interest on a note is effectively connected with the conduct
    of that trade or business, you will be required to pay United
    States federal income tax on that interest on a net income basis
    (although you will be exempt from the 30% withholding tax
    provided the certification requirement described above is met)
    in the same manner as if you were a U.S. person, except as
    otherwise provided by an applicable tax treaty. If you are a
    foreign corporation, you may be required to pay a branch profits
    tax on the earnings and profits that are effectively connected
    to the conduct of your trade or business in the United States.

Sale, Exchange or other Disposition of
    Notes.

You generally will not have to pay
    U.S. federal income tax on any gain or income realized from
    the sale, redemption, retirement at maturity or other
    disposition of your notes, unless:

•

in the case of gain, you are an individual who is present in the
    United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year
    of the sale or other disposition of your notes, and specific
    other conditions are met;

•

you are subject to tax provisions applicable to certain United
    States expatriates; or

•

the gain is effectively connected with your conduct of a
    U.S. trade or business.



If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States
    and gain with respect to your notes is effectively connected
    with the conduct of that trade or business, you generally will
    be subject to U.S. income tax on a net basis on the gain.
    In addition, if you are a foreign corporation, you may be
    subject to a branch profits tax on your effectively connected
    earnings and profits for the taxable year, as adjusted for
    certain items.

U.S. Federal Estate Tax.

If you are an
    individual and are not a U.S. citizen or a resident of the
    United States, as specially defined for U.S. federal estate
    tax purposes, at the time of your death, your notes will
    generally not be subject to the U.S. federal estate tax,
    unless, at the time of your death (1) you owned actually or
    constructively 10% or more of the total combined voting power of
    all our classes of stock entitled to vote or (2) interest
    on the notes is effectively connected with your conduct of a
    U.S. trade or business.

Backup Withholding and Information
    Reporting.

Backup withholding will not apply to
    payments of principal or interest made by us or our paying
    agent, in its capacity as such, to you if you have provided the
    required certification that you are a

non-U.S. holder

as described in “— U.S. Federal Withholding
    Tax” above, and provided that neither we nor our paying
    agent have actual knowledge that you are a U.S. holder, as
    described in “— U.S. Holders” above. We
    or our paying agent may, however, report payments of interest on
    the notes.

The gross proceeds from the disposition of your notes may be
    subject to information reporting and backup withholding tax. If
    you sell your notes outside the United States through a

non-U.S. office

of a

non-U.S. broker

and the sales proceeds are paid to you outside the United
    States, then the U.S. backup withholding and information
    reporting requirements generally will not apply to that payment.
    However, U.S. information reporting, but not backup
    withholding, will apply to a payment of sales proceeds, even if
    that payment is made outside the United States, if you sell your
    notes through a

non-U.S. office

of a broker that:

•

is a U.S. person, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code;

•

derives 50% or more of its gross income in specific periods from
    the conduct of a trade or business in the United States;

•

is a “controlled foreign corporation” for
    U.S. federal income tax purposes; or

•

is a foreign partnership, if at any time during its tax year,
    one or more of its partners are U.S. persons who in the
    aggregate hold more than 50% of the income or capital interests
    in the partnership, or the foreign partnership is engaged in a
    U.S. trade or business, unless the broker has documentary
    evidence in its files that you are a

non-U.S. person

and certain other conditions are met or you otherwise establish
    an exemption. If you receive payments of the proceeds of a sale
    of your notes to or through a U.S. office of a broker, the
    payment is subject to both U.S. backup withholding and
    information reporting unless you provide a

Form W-8BEN

certifying that you are a

non-U.S. person

or you otherwise establish an exemption.

You should consult your own tax advisor regarding application of
    backup withholding in your particular circumstance and the
    availability of and procedure for obtaining an exemption from
    backup withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup
    withholding rules from a payment to you will be allowed as a
    refund or credit against your U.S. federal income tax
    liability, provided the required information is furnished to the
    Internal Revenue Service.

U.S.
    Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our
    Warrants

Exercise of Warrants.

You will not generally
    recognize gain or loss upon the exercise of a warrant. Your
    basis in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares
    or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise
    of the warrant will be equal to the sum of your adjusted tax
    basis in the warrant and the exercise price paid. Your holding
    period in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary
    shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the
    exercise of the warrant will not include the period during which
    the warrant was held by you.

Expiration of Warrants.

Upon the expiration of
    a warrant, you will recognize a capital loss in an amount equal
    to your adjusted tax basis in the warrant.

Sale or Exchange of Warrants.

Upon the sale or
    exchange of a warrant to a person other than us, you will
    recognize gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference
    between the amount realized on the sale or exchange and your
    adjusted tax basis in the warrant. Such gain or loss will be
    capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss
    if the warrant was held for more than one year. Upon the sale of
    the warrant to us, the Internal Revenue Service may argue that
    you should recognize ordinary income on the sale. You are
    advised to consult your own tax advisors as to the consequences
    of a sale of a warrant to us.



Potential
    Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax
    Consequences

Current and prospective securities holders should recognize that
    the present federal income tax treatment of an investment in us
    may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative
    action at any time and that any such action may affect
    investments and commitments previously made. The rules dealing
    with federal income taxation are constantly under review by
    persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal
    Revenue Service and the Treasury Department, resulting in
    revisions of regulations and revised interpretations of
    established concepts as well as statutory changes. Revisions in
    federal tax laws and interpretations of these laws could
    adversely affect the tax consequences of an investment in us.

Internet
    Access to Our SEC Filings

Our annual reports on

Form 10-K,

quarterly reports on

Form 10-Q,

current reports on

Form 8-K

and amendments to those reports, as well as our proxy statements
    and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission are made available, free of
    charge, on the Internet at www.hcreit.com, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the
    Securities and Exchange Commission.

Item 1A.

Risk
    Factors

Forward-Looking
    Statements and Risk Factors

This section discusses the most significant factors that affect
    our business, operations and financial condition. It does not
    describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our
    industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following
    risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet
    identified or that we currently think are not material, actually
    occur, we could be materially adversely affected. In that event,
    the value of our securities could decline.

This Annual Report on

Form 10-K

and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements
    that constitute “forward-looking statements” as that
    term is defined in the federal securities laws. These
    forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to,
    those regarding:

•

the possible expansion of our portfolio;

•

the sale of properties;

•

the performance of our operators/tenants and properties;

•

our ability to enter into agreements with new viable tenants for
    properties that we take back from financially troubled tenants,
    if any;

•

our ability to retain or increase occupancies in our medical
    office buildings at similar or higher rates;

•

our ability to make distributions to stockholders;

•

our policies and plans regarding investments, financings and
    other matters;

•

our tax status as a real estate investment trust;

•

our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity;

•

our ability to access capital markets or other sources of
    funds; and

•

our ability to meet our earnings guidance.

When we use words such as “may,” “will,”
    “intend,” “should,” “believe,”
    “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate”
    or similar expressions, we are making forward-looking
    statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of
    future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. Our
    expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may
    differ materially from our expectations. This may be a result of
    various factors, including, but not limited to:

•

the status of the economy;

•

the status of capital markets, including prevailing interest
    rates;

•

issues facing the health care industry, including compliance
    with, and changes to, regulations and payment policies,
    responding to government investigations and punitive settlements
    and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost-effectively
    obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance;

•

changes in financing terms;



•

competition within the health care and senior housing industries;

•

negative developments in the operating results or financial
    condition of operators/tenants, including, but not limited to,
    their ability to pay rent and repay loans;

•

our ability to transition or sell facilities with profitable
    results;

•

the failure to make new investments as and when anticipated;

•

the failure of closings to occur as and when anticipated;

•

acts of God affecting our properties;

•

our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies
    occur;

•

our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to
    assets sold;

•

operator/tenant bankruptcies or insolvencies;

•

government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid
    reimbursement rates and operational requirements;

•

liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants;

•

unanticipated difficulties

and/or

expenditures relating to future acquisitions;

•

environmental laws affecting our properties;

•

changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;

•

other legal and operational matters, including REIT
    qualification and key management personnel recruitment and
    rentention; and

•

the risks described below:

Risk
    factors related to our operators’ revenues and
    expenses

Our investment property operators’ revenues are primarily
    driven by occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if
    applicable, and private pay rates. Expenses for these facilities
    are primarily driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities,
    taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. Revenues from
    government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under
    pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls.
    Liability insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for
    our operators. To the extent that any decrease in revenues

and/or

any
    increase in operating expenses result in a property not
    generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our
    operator and the value of other collateral would have to be
    relied upon.

Risk
    factors related to obligor bankruptcies

We are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not be able to
    meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us,
    which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that
    an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency
    proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating lease
    agreements provide us with the right to evict a tenant, demand
    immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our
    loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding
    obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid
    interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other
    remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain
    rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or
    reorganization. An obligor in bankruptcy or subject to
    insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability
    to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive
    unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to
    exercise other rights and remedies.

We may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate
    taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment
    property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property

and/or

transition a property to a new tenant. In some instances, we
    have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property
    to another tenant. In some of those situations, we have provided
    working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new
    obligor. If we cannot transition a leased property to a new
    tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may
    expose us to certain successor liabilities. Should such events
    occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely
    affected.



Transfers
    of health care facilities may require regulatory approvals and
    these facilities may not have efficient alternative
    uses

Transfers of health care facilities to successor operators
    frequently are subject to regulatory approvals, including change
    of ownership approvals under certificate of need
    (“CON”) laws and Medicare and Medicaid provider
    arrangements, that are not required for transfers of other types
    of real estate. The replacement of an operator could be delayed
    by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency
    necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of
    the operator licensed to manage the facility. Alternatively,
    given the specialized nature of our facilities, we may be
    required to spend substantial time and funds to adapt these
    properties to other uses. If we are unable to timely transfer
    properties to successor operators or find efficient alternative
    uses, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected.

Risk
    factors related to government regulations

Our obligors’ businesses are affected by government
    reimbursement and private payor rates. To the extent that an
    operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues
    from governmental payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such
    revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes,
    retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments
    or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations,
    payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries, government
    funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to
    specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due
    to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such
    property. In recent years, governmental payors have frozen or
    reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary
    pressures. Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be
    of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. We
    cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect
    any future legislative reforms may have on the financial
    condition of our obligors and properties. There can be no
    assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available
    for services provided by any property operator, whether the
    property receives reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or
    private payors. Significant limits on the scope of services
    reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a
    material adverse effect on an obligor’s liquidity,
    financial condition and results of operations, which could
    adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its
    obligations to us. See “Item 1 —
    Business — Certain Government Regulations —
    Reimbursement” above.

Our operators and tenants generally are subject to extensive
    federal, state and local licensure, certification and inspection
    laws and regulations. Our operators’ or tenants’
    failure to comply with any of these laws could result in loss of
    accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of fines,
    suspension or decertification from federal and state health care
    programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. Such
    actions may have an effect on our operators’ or
    tenants’ ability to make lease payments to us and,
    therefore, adversely impact us.

Many of our properties may require a license

and/or

CON
    to operate. Failure to obtain a license or CON, or loss of a
    required license or CON would prevent a facility from operating
    in the manner intended by the operators or tenants. These events
    could materially adversely affect our operators’ or
    tenants’ ability to make rent payments to us. State and
    local laws also may regulate expansion, including the addition
    of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and
    the construction of health care facilities, by requiring a CON
    or other similar approval.

Risk
    factors related to liability claims and insurance
    costs

Long-term care property operators (skilled nursing facilities,
    assisted living facilities, and independent living/continuing
    care retirement communities) have experienced substantial
    increases in both the number and size of patient care liability
    claims in recent years. As a result, general and professional
    liability costs have increased in some markets. No assurances
    can be given that the climate for long-term care general and
    professional liability insurance will improve in any states
    where the property operators conduct business. Insurance
    companies may reduce or stop writing general and professional
    liability policies for long-term care facilities. Thus, general
    and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted
    or very costly, which may adversely affect the property
    operators’ future operations, cash flows and financial
    condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the
    property operators’ ability to meet their obligations to us.

Risk
    factors related to acquisitions

We are exposed to the risk that some of our acquisitions may not
    prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated
    difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired
    properties, including contingent liabilities, and



acquired properties might require significant management
    attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing
    business. If we agree to provide construction funding to an
    operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to
    take steps to ensure completion of the project. Moreover, if we
    issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or both, to
    finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share
    financial results. These costs may negatively affect our results
    of operations.

Risk
    factors related to environmental laws

Under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of
    real estate may be required to respond to the presence or
    release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held
    liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that
    result from environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous
    substances. We may become liable to reimburse the government for
    damages and costs it incurs in connection with the
    contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person
    based on the person’s relationship to the property. Our
    tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition
    of the property. Moreover, we review environmental site
    assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior to
    taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to
    meet the “all appropriate inquiry” standard, which we
    believe qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if
    environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such assessments, we
    do not believe that any of our properties are subject to
    material environmental contamination. However, environmental
    liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur
    costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business or financial condition or the
    business or financial condition of our obligors.

Risk
    factors related to facilities that require entrance
    fees

Certain of our senior housing facilities require the payment of
    an upfront entrance fee by the resident, a portion of which may
    be refundable by the operator. Some of these facilities are
    subject to substantial oversight by state regulators relating to
    these funds. As a result of this oversight, residents of these
    facilities may have a variety of rights, including, for example,
    the right to cancel their contracts within a specified period of
    time and certain lien rights. The oversight and rights of
    residents within these facilities may have an effect on the
    revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities and
    therefore may negatively impact us.

Risk
    factors related to facilities under construction or
    development

At any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one
    or more new facilities that ultimately will require a CON and
    license before they can be utilized by the operator for their
    intended use. The operator also will need to obtain Medicare and
    Medicaid certification and enter into Medicare and Medicaid
    provider agreements or third party payor contracts. In the event
    that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary CON,
    licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after
    the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not
    be able to earn any revenues on the facility until either the
    initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate
    the new facility and the necessary provider agreements or
    contracts or we can find and contract with a new operator that
    is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its
    intended use and the necessary provider agreements or contracts.

In connection with our renovation, redevelopment, development
    and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain,
    or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use,
    building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and
    authorizations. These factors could result in increased costs or
    our abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may not be
    able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us
    unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may
    not be able to complete construction and

lease-up

of
    a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt
    service expense or construction costs.

Additionally, the time frame required for development,
    construction and

lease-up

of
    these properties means that we may have to wait years for
    significant cash returns. Because we are required to make cash
    distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from
    operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to
    borrow additional money to fund such distributions. Newly
    developed and acquired properties may not produce the cash flow
    that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall
    financial performance.

In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property,
    we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of
    that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our
    investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates. If our
    financial projections with respect to a new property are
    inaccurate, and the



property is unable to achieve the expected occupancy and rental
    rates, it may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our
    investment. Our estimate of the costs of repositioning or
    redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate,
    which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals.
    Additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully
    leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be
    insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service
    associated with that property.

We do
    not know if our tenants will renew their existing leases, and if
    they do not, we may be unable to lease the properties on as
    favorable terms, or at all

We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases
    at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times
    through 2029. If these leases are not renewed, we would be
    required to find other tenants to occupy those properties. There
    can be no assurance that we would be able to identify suitable
    replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on
    terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would
    be able to lease those properties at all.

Our
    ownership of properties through ground leases exposes us to the
    loss of such properties upon breach or termination of the ground
    leases

We have acquired an interest in certain of our properties by
    acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the
    building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in
    the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases.
    As the lessee under a ground lease, we are exposed to the
    possibility of losing the property upon termination of the
    ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us.

Illiquidity
    of real estate investments could significantly impede our
    ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our
    properties

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to
    quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to
    changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. No
    assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for
    any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons.
    Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance
    of our investments could adversely affect our financial
    condition and results of operations.

Risk
    factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds

From time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the
    proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments
    on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties,
    including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master
    leases or similar financial support arrangements. We must
    re-invest these proceeds, on a timely basis, in properties or in
    qualified short-term investments. We compete for real estate
    investments with a broad variety of potential investors. This
    competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our
    ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us.
    Delays in acquiring properties may negatively impact revenues
    and perhaps our ability to make distributions to stockholders.

Failure
    to properly manage our rapid growth could distract our
    management or increase our expenses

We have experienced rapid growth and development in a relatively
    short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in
    the future. Our rapid growth has resulted in increased levels of
    responsibility for our management. Future property acquisitions
    could place significant additional demands on, and require us to
    expand, our management, resources and personnel. Our failure to
    manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business
    and, in particular, our financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect our
    ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our rapid growth
    could also increase our capital requirements, which may require
    us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur
    additional debt.

We
    might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a
    REIT

We intend to operate as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code
    and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a
    manner. If we lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious
    tax consequences that will



substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our
    obligations and for distribution to our stockholders for each of
    the years involved because:

•

we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to
    stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be
    subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates;

•

we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and
    possibly increased state and local taxes; and

•

unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we
    could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable
    years following the year during which we were disqualified.

Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number of complex
    requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them,
    and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of
    federal taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the
    amount we could distribute to our stockholders. Also, if we were
    not a REIT, we would not be required to make distributions to
    stockholders since a non-REIT is not required to pay dividends
    to stockholders amounting to at least the sum of (1) 85% of
    our REIT ordinary income for the year, (2) 95% of our REIT
    capital gain income for such year (other than capital gain that
    we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any
    undistributed taxable income from preceding periods. See
    “Item 1 — Business — Federal
    Income Tax Considerations” for a discussion of the
    provisions of the Internal Revenue Code that apply to us and the
    effects of non-qualification.

In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all distributions
    to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the
    extent of our current and accumulated earning and profits,
    although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the
    dividends received deduction and individual stockholders may be
    eligible for taxation at the rates generally applicable to
    long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 15%)
    with respect to distributions.

As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a
    REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business
    strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common
    stock.

Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly
    technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which
    there are only limited judicial and administrative
    interpretations. The determination of various factual matters
    and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our
    ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we believe that
    we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue
    to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes. See
    “Item 1 — Business —
    Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations”
    included in this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

The
    90% annual distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity
    and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial
    transactions

To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to
    REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make
    distributions to our stockholders. See
    “Item 1 — Business
    — Taxation — Federal Income Tax
    Considerations — Qualification as a REIT —
    Annual Distribution Requirements” included in this Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K.

Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient
    cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT
    distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to
    time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to
    meet the 90% distribution requirement or we may decide to retain
    cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to
    avoid income and excise taxation. This may be due to the timing
    differences between the actual receipt of income and actual
    payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the
    inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in
    arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition,
    non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or
    repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash
    deductions also may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or
    liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution
    requirement. In the event that timing differences occur or we
    deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue
    additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that
    we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if
    possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in a
    transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution
    requirements. This may require us to raise additional capital to
    meet our obligations.

Other
    risk factors

We are also subject to other risks. First, our Second Restated
    Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws
    contain anti-takeover provisions (staggered board provisions,
    restrictions on share ownership and transfer and super majority
    stockholder approval requirements for business combinations)
    that could make it



more difficult for or even prevent a third party from acquiring
    us without the approval of our incumbent Board of Directors.
    Provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover
    attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock.

Additionally, we are dependent on key personnel. Although we
    have entered into employment agreements with our executive
    officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily,
    have an adverse impact on our operations. We believe that losing
    more than one would have a material adverse impact on our
    business.

Item 1B.

Unresolved
    Staff Comments

None.



Item 2.

Properties

We lease our corporate headquarters located at One SeaGate,
    Suite 1500, Toledo, Ohio 43604. We also lease corporate
    offices in Florida, Indiana and Tennessee. The following table
    sets forth certain information regarding the properties that
    comprise our investments as of December 31, 2007 (dollars
    in thousands):

Number of

Number of

Total

Annualized

Property Location

Properties

Units

Investment

Income(1)

Assisted Living Facilities:

Arizona



$

16,760

$

2,262

California



53,989

7,681

Colorado



4,056


Connecticut



42,407

5,434

Delaware



19,985

2,134

Florida



49,206

5,877

Georgia



4,208


Idaho



14,219

1,757

Illinois



47,480

1,742

Indiana



4,742


Iowa



10,428


Kansas



10,278

1,097

Kentucky



7,178


Louisiana



7,155

1,271

Maryland



8,828

1,130

Massachusetts



64,092

7,909

Mississippi



12,667

1,604

Montana



14,160

1,770

Nevada



29,967

3,004

New Jersey



6,984

1,000

New York



40,780

3,883

North Carolina


1,867

168,604

22,394

Ohio



39,533

4,843

Oklahoma



21,716

3,028

Oregon



9,842

1,514

Pennsylvania



15,483

1,452

South Carolina



6,852


Tennessee



11,626

1,629

Texas


1,758

129,204

12,861

Utah



12,471

1,565

Virginia



39,222

4,360

Washington



57,384

5,994

Wisconsin



61,961

5,910

Total Assisted Living Facilities


12,750

1,043,467

118,673



Number of

Number of

Total

Annualized

Property Location

Properties

Beds

Investment

Income(1)

Skilled Nursing Facilities:

Alabama


1,004

$

36,308

$

4,579

Arizona



16,846

1,976

Colorado



31,177

3,491

Connecticut



23,838

2,623

Florida


5,759

296,467

34,946

Georgia



15,740

1,966

Idaho



16,084

2,111

Illinois



29,686

2,974

Indiana



33,202

3,951

Kansas



8,976


Kentucky


1,311

61,927

7,717

Louisiana



33,167

3,328

Maryland



14,728

1,449

Massachusetts


2,833

197,244

22,153

Michigan



4,382


Mississippi


1,527

45,251

5,707

Missouri



18,075

1,670

Nevada



1,883


New Hampshire



4,390


New Jersey



4,520


Ohio


2,815

187,856

19,899

Oklahoma



20,192

2,569

Oregon



4,005


Pennsylvania



26,070

3,579

Tennessee


3,025

220,191

27,198

Texas


3,668

168,456

17,689

Utah



7,425


Virginia


1,239

63,949

6,157

Total Skilled Nursing Facilities


30,647

1,592,035

181,926



Number of

Number of

Total

Annualized

Property Location

Properties

Units

Investment

Income(1)

Independent Living Facilities/ CCRCs:

Arizona



$

12,389

$

1,260

California


1,118

153,814

10,811

Colorado



64,903

3,777

Florida


1,224

135,732

12,601

Georgia



18,013

2,593

Idaho



13,197

1,659

Illinois



6,298


Indiana



84,467

3,593

Kansas



12,118

1,124

Maryland



2,509


Massachusetts



31,894

2,533

Missouri



5,857


Montana



1,939


Nevada



7,258

1,187

New York



10,286

1,287

North Carolina



31,420

1,999

Ohio



18,595


Pennsylvania



26,197

2,136

South Carolina


1,322

110,626

7,765

Texas



18,666

2,353

Washington



5,277


Wisconsin



5,894


Total Independent Living Facilities/CCRCs


7,509

777,349

59,060

Number of

Total

Annualized

Property Location

Properties

Sq. Ft.

Investment

Income (1)

Medical Office Buildings:

Alabama


303,316

$

45,004

$

3,606

Alaska


63,383

29,795

2,200

Arizona


514,402

86,355

6,227

California


384,520

126,091

8,676

Colorado


36,386

7,559


Florida


935,944

291,664

18,301

Georgia


358,566

89,148

6,631

Illinois


71,345

17,609

1,446

Missouri


50,156

17,148

1,312

Nevada


324,845

116,497

8,437

New Jersey


341,490

33,791

2,134

New York


276,104

62,391

5,887

North Carolina


156,251

24,427

2,243

Ohio


20,106

7,706


Oklahoma


44,803

12,676


South Carolina


47,114

17,848

1,278

Tennessee


295,017

75,855

6,219

Texas


808,585

186,700

11,067

Total Medical Office Buildings


5,032,333

1,248,264

87,903



Number of

Number of

Total

Annualized

Property Location

Properties

Beds

Investment

Income (1)

Specialty Care Facilities:

California



$

6,949

$


Idaho



19,838


Illinois



54,505

5,038

Indiana



19,012


Louisiana



11,996


Massachusetts



53,748

6,202

Ohio



26,876

3,871

Oklahoma



12,411

1,060

Texas



128,240

11,602

Wisconsin



25,336

2,505

Total Specialty Care Facilities


1,541

358,911

31,814

Total All Properties


$

5,020,026

$

479,376

(1)

Reflects contract rate of interest
    for loans, annual straight-line rent for leases with fixed
    escalators or annual cash rent for leases with contingent
    escalators, net of collectibility reserves if applicable.

Item 3.

Legal
    Proceedings

From time to time, there are various legal proceedings pending
    to which we are a party or to which some of our properties are
    subject arising in the normal course of business. We do not
    believe that the ultimate resolution of these proceedings will
    have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
    position or results of operations.

Item 4.

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.



PART II

Item 5.

Market
    for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

There were 5,405 stockholders of record as of February 15,
    2008. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated,
    the high and low prices of our common stock on the New York
    Stock Exchange, as reported on the Composite Tape, and common
    dividends paid per share:

Sales Price

Dividends

High

Low

Paid


First Quarter

$

48.55

$

42.62

$

0.2991

(1)

Second Quarter

45.80

38.64

0.6600

Third Quarter

44.24

35.08

0.6600

Fourth Quarter

46.55

41.00

0.6600


First Quarter

$

38.50

$

33.68

$

0.6200

Second Quarter

38.09

32.80

0.6400

Third Quarter

40.12

34.55

0.6400

Fourth Quarter

43.02

38.60

0.9809

(2)

(1)

Does not include the $0.3409
    prorated dividend paid on December 28, 2006 in connection
    with the merger with Windrose Medical Properties Trust.

(2)

Includes $0.3409 prorated dividend
    paid on December 28, 2006.

Our Board of Directors approved a new quarterly dividend rate of
    $0.68 per share of common stock per quarter, commencing with the
    May 2008 dividend. Our dividend policy is reviewed annually by
    the Board of Directors. The declaration and payment of quarterly
    dividends remains subject to the review and approval of the
    Board of Directors.



Stockholder
    Return Performance Presentation

Set forth below is a line graph comparing the yearly percentage
    change and the cumulative total stockholder return on our shares
    of common stock against the cumulative total return of the
    S & P Composite-500 Stock Index and the NAREIT Equity
    Index. As of December 31, 2007, 110 companies
    comprised the NAREIT Equity Index. The Index consists of REITs
    identified by NAREIT as equity (those REITs which have at least
    75% of real property investments). Upon written request sent to
    the Senior Vice President-Administration and Corporate
    Secretary, Health Care REIT, Inc., One SeaGate, Suite 1500,
    P.O. Box 1475, Toledo, Ohio,

43603-1475,

we will provide stockholders with the names of the component
    issuers. The data are based on the closing prices as of December
    31 for each of the five years. 2002 equals $100 and dividends
    are assumed to be reinvested.

12/31/02

12/31/03

12/31/04

12/31/05

12/31/06

12/31/07

S & P 500

100.00

128.70

142.69

149.69

173.34

182.86

Health Care REIT

100.00

144.06

163.55

155.91

211.88

232.32

NAREIT Equity

100.00

137.13

180.43

202.38

273.34

230.45

Except to the extent that we specifically incorporate this
    information by reference, the foregoing Stockholder Return
    Performance Presentation shall not be deemed incorporated by
    reference by any general statement incorporating by reference
    this Annual Report on

Form 10-K

into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. This
    information shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such acts.



Item 6.

Selected
    Financial Data

The following selected financial data for the five years ended
    December 31, 2007 are derived from our audited consolidated
    financial statements (in thousands, except per share data):

Year Ended December 31,






Operating Data

Revenues(1)

$

170,141

$

223,158

$

264,622

$

313,449

$

486,022

Expenses:

Interest expense(1)

44,870

64,005

74,878

92,436

134,680

Depreciation and amortization(1)

38,723

59,669

70,956

88,433

145,893

Property operating expenses




1,115

37,475

Other expenses(1)(2)

17,274

20,391

20,073

30,259

43,630

Impairment of assets

2,792





Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt



21,484


(1,081

)

Total expenses

103,659

144,379

187,391

212,243

360,597

Income before minority interests

66,482

78,779

77,231

101,206

125,425

Minority interests




(13

)

(238

)

Income from continuing operations

66,482

78,779

77,231

101,193

125,187

Income from discontinued operations, net(1)

16,258

6,592

7,055

1,557

16,215

Net income

82,740

85,371

84,286

102,750

141,402

Preferred stock dividends

9,218

12,737

21,594

21,463

25,130

Preferred stock redemption charge

2,790





Net income available to common stockholders

$

70,732

$

72,634

$

62,692

$

81,287

$

116,272

Other Data

Average number of common shares outstanding:

Basic

43,572

51,544

54,110

61,661

78,861

Diluted

44,201

52,082

54,499

62,045

79,409

Per Share Data

Basic:

Income from continuing operations available to common
    stockholders

$

1.25

$

1.28

$

1.03

$

1.29

$

1.27

Discontinued operations, net

0.37

0.13

0.13

0.03

0.21

Net income available to common stockholders*

$

1.62

$

1.41

$

1.16

$

1.32

$

1.47

Diluted:

Income from continuing operations available to common
    stockholders

$

1.23

$

1.27

$

1.02

$

1.29

$

1.26

Discontinued operations, net

0.37

0.13

0.13

0.03

0.20

Net income available to common stockholders*

$

1.60

$

1.39

$

1.15

$

1.31

$

1.46

Cash distributions per common share

$

2.34

$

2.385

$

2.46

$

2.8809

$

2.2791

*

Amounts may not sum due to rounding



(1)

In accordance with FASB Statement
    No. 144, we have reclassified the income and expenses
    attributable to the properties sold subsequent to
    January 1, 2002 and attributable to the properties held for
    sale at December 31, 2007, to discontinued operations for
    all periods presented. See Note 16 to our audited
    consolidated financial statements.

(2)

Other expenses include loan
    expense, provision for loan losses and general and
    administrative expenses.

December 31,






Balance Sheet Data

Net real estate investments

$

1,992,446

$

2,441,972

$

2,849,518

$

4,122,893

$

5,012,620

Total assets

2,184,088

2,552,171

2,972,164

4,280,610

5,213,856

Total long-term obligations

1,014,541

1,192,958

1,500,818

2,198,001

2,704,668

Total liabilities and minority interests

1,034,409

1,216,892

1,541,408

2,301,817

2,809,500

Total redeemable preferred stock

120,761

283,751

276,875

338,993

330,243

Total stockholders’ equity

1,149,679

1,335,279

1,430,756

1,978,793

2,404,356



Item 7.

Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations

The following discussion and analysis is based primarily on the
    consolidated financial statements of Health Care REIT, Inc. for
    the periods presented and should be read together with the notes
    thereto contained in this Annual Report on

Form 10-K.

Other important factors are identified in
    “Item 1 — Business” and
    “Item 1A — Risk Factors” above.

Executive
    Overview

Business

Health Care REIT, Inc. is an equity real estate investment trust
    that invests in the full spectrum of senior housing and health
    care real estate. Founded in 1970, we were the first REIT to
    invest exclusively in health care properties. The following
    table summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2007:

Investments

Percentage of

Revenues(1)

Percentage of

Number of

# Beds/Units

Investment per

Operators/

Type of Property

(in thousands)

Investments

(in thousands)

Revenues

Properties

or Sq. Ft.

metric(2)

Tenants

States

Independent living/CCRCs

$

777,349


%

$

45,502


%


7,509 units

$

157,564 per unit



Assisted living facilities

1,043,467


%

114,961


%


12,750 units

98,087 per unit



Skilled nursing facilities

1,592,035


%

159,033


%


30,647 beds

52,752 per bed



Medical office buildings

1,248,264


%

112,317


%


5,032,333 sq. ft.

276 per sq. ft.



Specialty care facilities

358,911


%

25,484


%


1,541 beds

248,321 per bed



Interest income

25,823


%

Other income

10,035


%

Totals

$

5,020,026


%

$

493,155


%


(1)

Revenues include gross revenues and
    revenues from discontinued operations for the year ended
    December 31, 2007.

(2)

Investment per metric was computed
    by using the total investment amount of $5,820,723,000 which
    includes real estate investments and unfunded construction
    commitments for which initial funding has commenced which
    amounted to $5,020,026,000 and $800,697,000, respectively.

Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and
    enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash
    dividends to stockholders and create opportunities to increase
    dividend payments to stockholders as a result of annual
    increases in rental and interest income and portfolio growth. To
    meet these objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of
    senior housing and health care real estate and diversify our
    investment portfolio by property type, operator/tenant and
    geographic location.

Substantially all of our revenues and sources of cash flows from
    operations are derived from operating lease rentals and interest
    earned on outstanding loans receivable. These items represent
    our primary source of liquidity to fund distributions and are
    dependent upon our obligors’ continued ability to make
    contractual rent and interest payments to us. To the extent that
    our obligors experience operating difficulties and are unable to
    generate sufficient cash to make payments to us, there could be
    a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
    operations, liquidity

and/or

financial condition. To mitigate this risk, we monitor our
    investments through a variety of methods determined by the type
    of property and operator/tenant. Our asset management process
    includes review of monthly financial statements for each
    property, periodic review of obligor credit, periodic property
    inspections and review of covenant compliance relating to
    licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other
    collateral. In monitoring our portfolio, our personnel use a
    proprietary database to collect and analyze property-specific
    data. Additionally, we conduct extensive research to ascertain
    industry trends and risks. Through these asset management and
    research efforts, we are typically able to intervene at an early
    stage to address payment risk, and in so doing, support both the
    collectibility of revenue and the value of our investment.

In addition to our asset management and research efforts, we
    also structure our investments to help mitigate payment risk.
    Operating leases and loans are normally credit enhanced by
    guaranties

and/or

letters of credit. In addition, operating leases are typically
    structured as master leases and loans are generally
    cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other loans,
    operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and
    its affiliates.

For the year ended December 31, 2007, rental income and
    interest income represented 93% and 5%, respectively, of total
    gross revenues (including discontinued operations).
    Substantially all of our operating leases are designed with
    either fixed or contingent escalating rent structures. Leases
    with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on
    a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to
    a collectibility assessment. Rental income related to leases
    with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on
    the contractual cash rental payments



due for the period. Our yield on loans receivable depends upon a
    number of factors, including the stated interest rate, the
    average principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan
    and any interest rate adjustments.

Depending upon the availability and cost of external capital, we
    anticipate investing in additional properties. New investments
    are generally funded from temporary borrowings under our
    unsecured line of credit arrangement, internally generated cash
    and the proceeds from sales of real property. Our investments
    generate internal cash from rent and interest receipts and
    principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent financing for
    future investments, which replaces funds drawn under the
    unsecured line of credit arrangement, is expected to be provided
    through a combination of public and private offerings of debt
    and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of
    secured debt. We believe our liquidity and various sources of
    available capital are sufficient to fund operations, meet debt
    service obligations (both principal and interest), make dividend
    distributions and finance future investments.

Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new
    investments will be available in the future with spreads over
    our cost of capital that will generate appropriate returns to
    our stockholders. We expect to complete gross new investments of
    $900,000,000 to $1,200,000,000 in 2008, including acquisitions
    of $500,000,000 to $700,000,000 and funded new development of
    $400,000,000 to $500,000,000. We anticipate the sale of real
    property and the repayment of loans receivable totaling
    approximately $100,000,000 to $200,000,000 during 2008. It is
    possible that additional loan repayments or sales of real
    property may occur in the future. To the extent that loan
    repayments and real property sales exceed new investments, our
    revenues and cash flows from operations could be adversely
    affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds from any loan
    repayments and real property sales in new investments. To the
    extent that new investment requirements exceed our available
    cash on-hand, we expect to borrow under our unsecured line of
    credit arrangement. At December 31, 2007, we had
    $30,269,000 of cash and cash equivalents and $843,000,000 of
    available borrowing capacity under our unsecured line of credit
    arrangement. Our investment activity may exceed our borrowing
    capacity under our unsecured line of credit. To the extent that
    we are unable to issue equity or debt securities to provide
    additional capital, we may not be able to fund all of our
    potential investments, which could have an adverse effect on our
    revenues and cash flows from operations.

Key
    Transactions in 2007

We completed the following key transactions during the year
    ended December 31, 2007:

•

our Board of Directors increased our quarterly dividend to $0.66
    per share, which represents a two cent increase from the
    quarterly dividend of $0.64 paid for 2006. The dividend declared
    for the quarter ended December 31, 2007 represented the
    147th consecutive dividend payment;

•

we completed $1,189,472,000 of gross investments offset by
    $125,905,000 of investment payoffs;

•

we completed a public offering of 6,325,000 shares of
    common stock with net proceeds to the Company of approximately
    $265,294,000 in April 2007;

•

we issued $400,000,000 of 4.75% convertible senior unsecured
    notes due July 2027 with net proceeds to the company of
    approximately $388,943,000 in July 2007;

•

we closed on a $1,150,000,000 unsecured revolving credit
    facility in August 2007 to replace our $700,000,000 facility
    which was scheduled to mature in July 2009 and our $40,000,000
    facility which was scheduled to mature in May 2008. Among other
    things, the new facility provides us with additional financial
    flexibility and borrowing capacity, extends our agreement to
    August 2011 and reduces our incremental borrowing cost from
    80 basis points to 60 basis points over LIBOR based on
    our then current ratings; and

•

we completed a public offering of 3,500,000 shares of
    common stock with net proceeds to the Company of approximately
    $147,139,000 in December 2007.

Windrose
    Medical Properties Trust Merger

As discussed in our Annual Report on

Form 10-K/A

for the year ended December 31, 2006, we completed our
    merger with Windrose Medical Properties Trust on
    December 20, 2006. These operations are the principal
    component of our operating property segment. The results of
    operations for this segment represent the primary change in our
    consolidated results of operations from the prior year.
    Allocation of the purchase price has been finalized. See
    Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for
    additional information.



Rendina/Paramount
    Acquisition

In May 2007, we completed the acquisition of 17 medical office
    buildings and Paramount Real Estate Services, a property
    management company, from affiliates of Rendina Companies. The
    results of operations for these properties and Paramount have
    been included in our consolidated results of operations from the
    date of acquisition. Allocation of the purchase price has been
    finalized. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial
    statements for additional information.

Key
    Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties

We utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the
    various aspects of our business. These indicators are discussed
    below and relate to operating performance, credit strength and
    concentration risk. Management uses these key performance
    indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to
    our historical operating results and in making operating
    decisions.

Operating Performance.

We believe that net
    income available to common stockholders (“NICS”) is
    the most appropriate earnings measure. Other useful supplemental
    measures of our operating performance include funds from
    operations (“FFO”) and funds available for
    distribution (“FAD”); however, these supplemental
    measures are not defined by U.S. generally accepted
    accounting principals (“U.S. GAAP”). Please refer
    to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial
    Measures” for further discussion of FFO and FAD and for
    reconciliations of FFO and FAD to NICS. These earning measures
    and their relative per share amounts are widely used by
    investors and analysts in the valuation, comparison and
    investment recommendations of REITs. The following table
    reflects the recent historical trends of our operating
    performance measures (in thousands, except per share data):

Year Ended

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




Net income available to common stockholders

$

62,692

$

81,287

$

116,272

Funds from operations

144,293

177,580

251,117

Funds available for distribution

147,730

191,885

252,784

Per share data (fully diluted):

Net income available to common stockholders

$

1.15

$

1.31

$

1.46

Funds from operations

2.65

2.86

3.16

Funds available for distribution

2.71

3.09

3.18

Credit Strength.

We measure our credit
    strength both in terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios.
    Our leverage ratios include debt to book capitalization, debt to
    undepreciated book capitalization and debt to market
    capitalization. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our
    balance sheet capitalization is related to total debt. Our
    coverage ratios include interest coverage ratio and fixed charge
    coverage ratio. The coverage ratios indicate our ability to
    service interest and fixed charges (interest plus preferred
    dividends and secured debt principal amortizations). We expect
    to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios sufficient
    to maintain investment grade ratings with Moody’s Investors
    Service, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and
    Fitch Ratings. The coverage ratios are based on earnings before
    interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
    (“EBITDA”) which is discussed in further detail, and
    reconciled to net income, below in “Non-GAAP Financial
    Measures.” Leverage ratios and coverage ratios are widely
    used by investors, analysts and rating agencies in the
    valuation, comparison, investment recommendations and rating of
    companies. The following table reflects the recent historical
    trends for our credit strength measures:

Year Ended

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




Debt to book capitalization ratio


%


%


%

Debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio


%


%


%

Debt to market capitalization ratio


%


%


%

Interest coverage ratio

3.06

x

2.97

x

2.91

x

Fixed charge coverage ratio

2.37

x

2.39

x

2.38

x

Concentration Risk.

We evaluate our
    concentration risk in terms of asset mix, investment mix,
    customer mix and geographic mix. Concentration risk is a
    valuable measure in understanding what portion of our
    investments could be at risk if certain sectors were to
    experience downturns. Asset mix measures the portion of our
    investments



that are real property. In order to qualify as an equity REIT,
    at least 75% of our real estate investments must be real
    property whereby each property, which includes the land,
    buildings, improvements, intangibles and related rights, is
    owned by us and leased to an operator pursuant to a long-term
    operating lease. Investment mix measures the portion of our
    investments that relate to our various property types. Customer
    mix measures the portion of our investments that relate to our
    top five customers. Geographic mix measures the portion of our
    investments that relate to our top five states. The following
    table reflects our recent historical trends of concentration
    risk:

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




Asset mix:

Real property


%


%


%

Loans receivable


%


%


%

Investment mix:

Assisted living facilities


%


%


%

Skilled nursing facilities


%


%


%

Independent/CCRC


%


%


%

Medical office buildings


%


%

Specialty care facilities


%


%


%

Customer mix:

Emeritus Corporation


%


%


%

Signature Healthcare LLC


%

Brookdale Senior Living Inc


%


%

Life Care Centers of America, Inc.


%


%


%

Senior Living Communities, LLC


%

Home Quality Management, Inc.


%

Merrill Gardens L.L.C.


%


%

Southern Assisted Living, Inc.


%

Commonwealth Communities Holdings LLC


%

Remaining portfolio


%


%


%

Geographic mix:

Florida


%


%


%

Texas


%


%


%

Massachusetts


%


%


%

California


%


%


%

Tennessee


%

Ohio


%

North Carolina


%

Remaining portfolio


%


%


%

We evaluate our key performance indicators in conjunction with
    current expectations to determine if historical trends are
    indicative of future results. Our expected results may not be
    achieved and actual results may differ materially from our
    expectations. Management regularly monitors various economic and
    other factors to develop strategic and tactical plans designed
    to improve performance and maximize our competitive position.
    Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is dependent
    upon our ability to effectively execute these plans and to
    appropriately respond to emerging economic and company-specific
    trends. Please refer to “Item 1A — Risk
    Factors” above for further discussion.

Portfolio
    Update

Investment
    Properties

Payment coverage of the operators in our investment property
    portfolio continues to improve. Our overall payment coverage is
    at 1.99 times and represents an increase of six basis point from
    2006 and seven basis points from 2005. The following table
    reflects our recent historical trends of portfolio coverage.
    Coverage data reflects the 12 months ended for the periods
    presented. CBMF represents the ratio of facilities’
    earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization,
    rent and management fees to contractual rent or interest due us.
    CAMF represents the



ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
    amortization, and rent (but after imputed management fees) to
    contractual rent or interest due us.

September 30, 2005

September 30, 2006

September 30, 2007

CBMF

CAMF

CBMF

CAMF

CBMF

CAMF

Independent living/CCRCs

1.43

x

1.21

x

1.41

x

1.21

x

1.47

x

1.26

x

Assisted living facilities

1.52

x

1.30

x

1.54

x

1.33

x

1.57

x

1.35

x

Skilled nursing facilities

2.18

x

1.61

x

2.17

x

1.55

x

2.25

x

1.65

x

Specialty care facilities

3.36

x

2.77

x

2.88

x

2.34

x

2.72

x

2.16

x

Weighted averages

1.92

x

1.53

x

1.93

x

1.50

x

1.99

x

1.55

x

Operating
    Properties

The primary performance measure for our operating properties is
    net operating income (“NOI”) as discussed below in
    Non-GAAP Financial Measures. At December 31, 2007, we
    had 121 medical office buildings and four specialty care
    facilities in our operating properties portfolio. Our
    consolidated financial results for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 include twelve days of revenues and
    expenses from operating properties due to the Windrose merger
    completed on December 20, 2006. The following table
    summarizes and reconciles our net operating income for the
    periods indicated (in thousands):

Property

Net

Total

Operating

Operating

Revenues

Expenses

Income

Year ended December 31, 2006:

Medical office buildings

$

3,247

$

1,108

$

2,139

Specialty care facilities




Totals

$

3,474

$

1,115

$

2,359

Year ended December 31, 2007:

Medical office buildings

$

112,814

$

37,177

$

75,637

Specialty care facilities

6,970


6,672

Totals

$

119,784

$

37,475

$

82,309

Corporate
    Governance

Maintaining investor confidence and trust has become
    increasingly important in today’s business environment. Our
    Board of Directors and management are strongly committed to
    policies and procedures that reflect the highest level of
    ethical business practices. Our corporate governance guidelines
    provide the framework for our business operations and emphasize
    our commitment to increase stockholder value while meeting all
    applicable legal requirements. The Board of Directors adopted
    and annually reviews its Corporate Governance Guidelines. These
    guidelines meet the listing standards adopted by the New York
    Stock Exchange and are available on the Internet at
    www.hcreit.com and from us upon written request sent to the
    Senior Vice President — Administration and Corporate
    Secretary, Health Care REIT, Inc., One SeaGate, Suite 1500,
    P.O. Box 1475, Toledo, Ohio,

43603-1475.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources

Sources
    and Uses of Cash

Our primary sources of cash include rent and interest receipts,
    borrowings under our unsecured line of credit arrangement,
    public and private offerings of debt and equity securities,
    proceeds from the sales of real property and principal payments
    on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend
    distributions, debt service payments (including principal and
    interest), real property acquisitions, loan advances and general
    and administrative expenses. These sources and uses of cash are
    reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and are
    discussed in further detail below.



The following is a summary of our sources and uses of cash flows
    (dollars in thousands):

One Year

One Year

Two Year

Year Ended

Change

Year Ended

Change

Change

Dec. 31, 2005

Dec. 31, 2006

$

%

Dec. 31, 2007

$

%

$

%

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

$

19,763

$

36,237

$

16,474


%

$

36,216

$

(21

)


%

$

16,453


%

Cash provided from (used in) operating activities

194,417

216,446

22,029


%

263,883

47,437


%

69,466


%

Cash provided from (used in) investing activities

(449,069

)

(560,815

)

(111,746

)


%

(885,336

)

(324,521

)


%

(436,267

)


%

Cash provided from (used in) financing activities

271,126

344,348

73,222


%

615,506

271,158


%

344,380


%

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

36,237

$

36,216

$

(21

)


%

$

30,269

$

(5,947

)

(16

)%

$

(5,968

)

(16

)%

Operating Activities.

The increases in net
    cash provided from operating activities are primarily
    attributable to increases in net income, excluding depreciation
    and amortization, stock-based compensation and net straight-line
    rental income. Net income and the provisions for depreciation
    and amortization increased primarily as a result of net new
    investments in properties owned by us. See the discussion of
    investing activities below for additional details. To the extent
    that we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the
    future, our net income and provisions for depreciation and
    amortization will change accordingly.

The following is a summary of our straight-line rent (dollars in
    thousands):

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

Dec. 31, 2005

Dec. 31, 2006

$

%

Dec. 31, 2007

$

%

$

%

Gross straight-line rental income

$

13,142

$

9,432

$

(3,710

)

(28

)%

$

17,029

$

7,597


%

$

3,887


%

Cash receipts due to real property sales

(9,384

)

(3,544

)

5,840

(62

)%

(4,527

)

(983

)


%

4,857

(52

)%

Prepaid rent receipts

(4,485

)

(17,017

)

(12,532

)


%

(12,942

)

4,075

(24

)%

(8,457

)


%

Amortization related to above/below market leases, net




n/a



1,220

%


n/a

$

(727

)

$

(11,069

)

$

(10,342

)

1,423

%

$


$

11,421

n/a

$

1,079

n/a

Gross straight-line rental income represents the non-cash
    difference between contractual cash rent due and the average
    rent recognized pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No.

13 Accounting for Leases

(“SFAS 13”) for leases with fixed rental
    escalators, net of collectibility reserves, if any. This amount
    is positive in the first half of a lease term (but declining
    every year due to annual increases in cash rent due) and is
    negative in the second half of a lease term. The increase in
    gross straight-line rental income is primarily due to an
    increase in the number of our leases with fixed annual increases
    resulting primarily from the Windrose merger completed in
    December 2006 and the Rendina/Paramount acquisition completed in
    May 2007. The change in prepaid rent cash receipts is primarily
    attributable to cash received upon renegotiation of a lease in
    connection to the acquisition of Commonwealth Communities
    Holdings LLC by Kindred Healthcare, Inc. in February 2006.



Investing Activities.

The changes in net cash
    used in investing activities are primarily attributable to the
    Windrose merger and net changes in loans receivable and real
    property investments. The following is a summary of our
    investment and disposition activities (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended

December 31, 2005

December 31, 2006(1)

December 31, 2007(2)

Facilities

Amount

Facilities

Amount

Facilities

Amount

Real property acquisitions:

Independent/CCRC


$

230,225


$

56,417


$

43,000

Assisted living


47,660


77,600


36,233

Skilled nursing


262,084


148,955


122,875

Medical office




381,134

Specialty care


51,000



11,923

Land parcels


10,250

8,928

Total acquisitions


590,969


293,222


604,093

Less:

Assumed debt

(22,309

)

(25,049

)

(166,188

)

Assumed other assets/(liabilities), net



(2,432

)

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

568,660

268,173

435,473

Additions to CIP

8,790

149,843

295,102

Capital improvements to existing properties

21,841

11,167

39,976

Total cash invested in real property

599,291

429,183

770,551

Real property dispositions:

Assisted living


90,485


58,479


59,694

Skilled nursing



7,827


23,055

Independent/CCRC



3,095


11,919

Specialty care




Land parcels



3,646

Proceeds from real property sales


91,325


69,887


98,314

Net cash investments in real property


$

507,966


$

359,296


$

672,237

Advances on loans receivable:

Investments in new loans

$

26,554

$

75,209

$

205,770

Draws on existing loans

13,833

11,781

30,124

Total investments in loans

40,387

86,990

235,894

Receipts on loans receivable:

Loan payoffs

82,379

65,002

42,028

Principal payments on loans

16,259

17,253

10,318

Total principal receipts on loans

98,638

82,255

52,346

Net cash advances/(receipts) on loans receivable

$

(58,251

)

$

4,735

$

183,548

(1)

2006 excludes the Windrose merger.

(2)

2007 includes the Rendina/Paramount
    acquisition.

The investment in Windrose during 2006 primarily represented
    $183,139,000 of cash provided to Windrose to extinguish secured
    debt and cash used to pay advisory fees, lender consents and
    other merger-related costs totaling $15,023,000. These cash uses
    were offset by $15,591,000 of cash assumed from Windrose on the
    merger effective



date. The investment in Rendina/Paramount primarily represented
    cash consideration of $141,967,000 offset by $4,000 of cash
    assumed from Paramount.

Financing Activities.

The changes in net cash
    provided from or used in financing activities are primarily
    attributable to changes related to our debt, common stock
    issuances, preferred stock issuances and cash distributions to
    stockholders.

The following is a summary of our senior unsecured note
    issuances (dollars in thousands):

Date Issued

Maturity Date

Interest Rate

Face Amount

Net Proceeds

April 2005

May 2015

5.875

%

$

250,000

$

246,859

November 2005

June 2016

6.200

%

$

300,000

$

297,194

2005 Totals

$

550,000

$

544,053

November 2006

December 2006

4.750

%

$

345,000

$

337,517

July 2007

July 2027

4.750

%

$

400,000

$

388,943

In May 2005, we redeemed all of our outstanding $50,000,000
    8.17% senior unsecured notes due March 2006, we completed a
    public tender offer for $57,670,000 of our outstanding
    $100,000,000 7.625% senior unsecured notes due March 2008,
    and we redeemed $122,500,000 of our outstanding $175,000,000
    7.5% senior unsecured notes due August 2007. In connection
    with that extinguishment, we recorded a $20,662,000 loss on
    extinguishment of debt. During the year ended December 31,
    2005, we paid off mortgages with outstanding balances of
    $72,309,000 and average interest rates of 7.481%. In August
    2007, we repaid $52,500,000 of 7.5% senior unsecured notes
    at maturity. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we
    paid off mortgages with outstanding balances of $29,797,000 and
    average interest rates of 7.338%. In November 2007, we
    repurchased $50,000,000 liquidation amount of preferred
    securities of a subsidiary trust and, in December 2007, obtained
    the satisfaction and discharge of a related $51,000,000
    liability of an operating partnership and recorded a $1,081,000
    gain on extinguishment of debt.

The change in common stock is primarily attributable to public
    issuances and common stock issuances related to our dividend
    reinvestment and stock purchase plan (“DRIP”). The
    remaining difference in common stock issuances is primarily due
    to issuances pursuant to stock incentive plans.

The following is a summary of our common stock issuances
    (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):

Date Issued

Shares Issued

Average Price

Gross Proceeds

Net Proceeds

November 2005 public issuance

3,000,000

$

34.15

$

102,450

$

100,977

2005 DRIP

1,546,959

$

34.59

53,505

53,505

2005 Options

380,108

$

23.38

8,889

8,889

2005 Totals

4,927,067

$

164,844

$

163,371

April 2006 public issuance

3,222,800

$

36.00

$

116,021

$

109,748

2006 DRIP

1,876,377

$

36.34

68,184

68,184

2006 Options

226,961

$

22.62

5,133

5,133

2006 Totals

5,326,138

$

189,338

$

183,065

April 2007 public issuance

6,325,000

$

44.01

$

278,363

$

265,294

December 2007 public issuance

3,500,000

$

42.14

147,490

147,139

2007 DRIP

1,626,000

$

41.81

67,985

67,985

2007 Options

401,630

$

27.82

11,175

11,175

2007 Totals

11,852,630

$

505,013

$

491,593

In order to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes,
    we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (including
    100% of capital gains) to our stockholders. The increases in
    dividends are primarily attributable to increases in outstanding
    common and preferred stock shares as discussed above and
    increases in our annual



common stock dividend per share and the payment of a prorated
    dividend of $0.3409 in December 2006 in conjunction with the
    Windrose merger.

The following is a summary of our dividend payments (in
    thousands, except per share amounts):

Year Ended

December 31, 2005

December 31, 2006

December 31, 2007

Per Share

Amount

Per Share

Amount

Per Share

Amount

Common Stock

$

2.46

$

132,548

$

2.8809

$

178,365

$

2.2791

$

182,969

Series D Preferred Stock

1.96875

7,875

1.96875

7,875

1.96875

7,875

Series E Preferred Stock

1.50


1.50


1.50


Series F Preferred Stock

1.90625

13,344

1.90625

13,344

1.90625

13,344

Series G Preferred Stock


0.0625


1.875

3,799

Totals

$

154,142

$

199,828

$

208,099

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements

We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit
    of certain insurance companies that provide workers’
    compensation insurance to one of our tenants. Our obligation to
    provide the letter of credit terminates in 2009. At
    December 31, 2007, our obligation under the letter of
    credit was $2,350,000.

We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit
    of certain insurance companies that provide liability and
    property insurance to one of our tenants. Our obligation to
    provide the letter of credit terminates in 2013. At
    December 31, 2007, our obligation under the letter of
    credit was $1,000,000.

We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit
    of a village in Illinois that secures the completion and
    installation of certain public improvements by one of our
    tenants in connection with the development of a facility. Our
    obligation to provide the letter of credit terminates in 2010.
    At December 31, 2007, our obligation under the letter of
    credit was $679,320.

We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit
    of a municipality in Pennsylvania in connection with the
    completion and installation of certain facility improvements by
    one of our subsidiaries. The improvements are expected to be
    completed in 2009. At December 31, 2007, our obligation
    under the letter of credit was $485,810.

We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential
    loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. We may or
    may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge
    interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on
    the general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates, our
    perception of the future volatility of interest rates and our
    relative levels of variable rate debt and variable rate
    investments. As of December 31, 2007, we participated in
    two forward-starting interest rate swap agreements related to
    our debt arrangements. Our interest rate swaps are discussed
    below in “Results of Operations.”



Contractual
    Obligations

The following table summarizes our payment requirements under
    contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007 (in
    thousands):

Payments Due by Period

Contractual Obligations

Total


2009-2010

2011-2012

Thereafter

Unsecured line of credit arrangement

$

307,000

$


$


$

307,000

$


Senior unsecured notes(1)

1,887,330

42,330


250,000

1,595,000

Secured debt(1)

506,973

27,941

69,232

74,482

335,318

Contractual interest obligations

1,419,740

158,722

302,172

267,810

691,036

Capital lease obligations






Operating lease obligations

54,993

3,148

5,896

5,423

40,526

Purchase obligations

826,318

456,905

369,413



Other long-term liabilities

4,190



3,290


Total contractual obligations

$

5,006,544

$

689,158

$

747,501

$

908,005

$

2,661,880

(1)

Amounts represent principal amounts
    due and do not reflect unamortized premiums/discounts or other
    fair value adjustments as reflected on the balance sheet.

At December 31, 2007, we had an unsecured credit
    arrangement with a consortium of seventeen banks providing for a
    revolving line of credit in the amount of $1,150,000,000, which
    is scheduled to expire on August 5, 2011 (with the ability
    to extend for one year at our discretion if we are in compliance
    with all covenants). Borrowings under the agreement are subject
    to interest payable in periods no longer than three months at
    either the agent bank’s prime rate of interest or the
    applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (4.6%
    at December 31, 2007). The applicable margin is based on
    our ratings with Moody’s Investors Service and
    Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and was 0.6%
    at December 31, 2007. In addition, we pay a facility fee
    annually to each bank based on the bank’s commitment under
    the revolving credit facility. The facility fee depends on our
    ratings with Moody’s Investors Service and
    Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and was 0.15%
    at December 31, 2007. We also pay an annual agent’s
    fee of $50,000. Principal is due upon expiration of the
    agreement. At December 31, 2007, we had $307,000,000
    outstanding under the unsecured line of credit arrangement and
    estimated total contractual interest obligations of $61,329,000.
    Contractual interest obligations are estimated based on the
    assumption that the balance of $307,000,000 at December 31,
    2007 is constant until maturity at interest rates in effect at
    December 31, 2007.

We have $1,887,330,000 of senior unsecured notes principal
    outstanding with fixed annual interest rates ranging from 4.75%
    to 8.0%, payable semi-annually. Total contractual interest
    obligations on senior unsecured notes totaled $1,171,437,000 at
    December 31, 2007. Additionally, we have mortgage loans
    with total outstanding principal of $506,973,000, collateralized
    by owned properties, with fixed annual interest rates ranging
    from 4.89% to 8.21%, payable monthly. The carrying values of the
    properties securing the mortgage loans totaled $969,543,000 at
    December 31, 2007. Total contractual interest obligations
    on mortgage loans totaled $186,974,000 at December 31, 2007.

At December 31, 2007, we had operating lease obligations of
    $54,993,000 relating primarily to ground leases at certain of
    our properties and office space leases.

Purchase obligations are comprised of unfunded construction
    commitments and contingent purchase obligations. At
    December 31, 2007, we had outstanding construction
    financings of $313,709,000 for leased properties and were
    committed to providing additional financing of approximately
    $800,697,000 to complete construction. At December 31,
    2007, we had contingent purchase obligations totaling
    $25,621,000. These contingent purchase obligations primarily
    relate to deferred acquisition fundings and capital
    improvements. Deferred acquisition fundings are contingent upon
    a tenant satisfying certain conditions in the lease. Upon
    funding, amounts due from the tenant are increased to reflect
    the additional investment in the property.

Other long-term liabilities relate to our Supplemental Executive
    Retirement Plan (“SERP”) and certain non-compete
    agreements. We have a SERP, a non-qualified defined benefit
    pension plan, which provides certain



executive officers with supplemental deferred retirement
    benefits. The SERP provides an opportunity for participants to
    receive retirement benefits that cannot be paid under our
    tax-qualified plans because of the restrictions imposed by ERISA
    and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Benefits are
    based on compensation and length of service and the SERP is
    unfunded. No contributions by the Company are anticipated for
    the 2008 fiscal year. Benefit payments are expected to total
    $3,290,000 during the next five fiscal years and no benefit
    payments are expected to occur during the succeeding five fiscal
    years. We use a December 31 measurement date for the SERP. The
    accrued liability on our balance sheet for the SERP was
    $1,915,000 at December 31, 2007 ($1,597,000 at
    December 31, 2006).

In connection with the Windrose merger, we entered into
    consulting agreements with Fred S. Klipsch and Frederick L.
    Farrar, which expire in December 2008 and may be terminated at
    any time by the consultant. Each consultant has agreed not to
    compete with the Company for a period of two years following
    termination or expiration of the agreement. In exchange for
    complying with the covenant not to compete, Messers. Klipsch and
    Farrar will receive eight quarterly payments of $75,000 and
    $37,500, respectively, with the first payment to be made on the
    date of termination or expiration of the agreement.

Capital
    Structure

As of December 31, 2007, we had stockholders’ equity
    of $2,404,356,000 and a total outstanding debt balance of
    $2,704,668,000, which represents a debt to total book
    capitalization ratio of 53%. Our ratio of debt to market
    capitalization was 39% at December 31, 2007. For the twelve
    months ended December 31, 2007, our interest coverage ratio
    was 2.91 to 1.00. For the twelve months ended December 31,
    2007, our fixed charge coverage ratio was 2.38 to 1.00. Also, at
    December 31, 2007, we had $30,269,000 of cash and cash
    equivalents and $843,000,000 of available borrowing capacity
    under our unsecured line of credit arrangement.

Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and
    events of default. Among other things, these provisions require
    us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth
    and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness,
    create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of
    December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with all of the
    covenants under our debt agreements. None of our debt agreements
    contain provisions for acceleration which could be triggered by
    our debt ratings with Moody’s Investors Service and
    Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. However,
    under our unsecured line of credit arrangement, these ratings on
    our senior unsecured notes are used to determine the fees and
    interest payable.

As of February 15, 2008, our senior unsecured notes were
    rated Baa2 (stable), BBB- (positive) and BBB (stable) by
    Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s
    Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings, respectively. We plan to
    manage the company to maintain investment grade status with a
    capital structure consistent with our current profile. Any
    downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the
    noted rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on
    our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a
    material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
    operations, liquidity

and/or

financial condition.

On May 12, 2006, we filed an open-ended automatic or
    “universal” shelf registration statement with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission covering an indeterminate
    amount of future offerings of debt securities, common stock,
    preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants and units. As of
    February 15, 2008, we had an effective registration
    statement on file in connection with our enhanced DRIP program
    under which we may issue up to 10,760,247 shares of common
    stock. As of February 15, 2008, 9,481,345 shares of
    common stock remained available for issuance under this
    registration statement. Depending upon market conditions, we
    anticipate issuing securities under our registration statements
    to invest in additional properties and to repay borrowings under
    our unsecured line of credit arrangement.



Results
    of Operations

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

Dec. 31, 2005

Dec. 31, 2006

$

%

Dec. 31, 2007

$

%

$

%

Net income available to common stockholders

$

62,692

$

81,287

$

18,595


%

$

116,272

$

34,985


%

$

53,580


%

Funds from operations

144,293

177,580

33,287


%

251,117

73,537


%

106,824


%

Funds available for distribution

147,730

191,885

44,155


%

252,784

60,899


%

105,054


%

EBITDA

254,731

300,485

45,754


%

433,495

133,010


%

178,764


%

The components of the changes in revenues, expenses and other
    items are discussed in detail below. The following is a summary
    of certain items that impact the results of operations for the
    year ended December 31, 2007:

•

$1,750,000 ($0.02 per diluted share) of one-time acquisition
    finders’ fees;

•

$1,081,000 ($0.01 per diluted share) of net gains on
    extinguishments of debt;

•

$1,457,000 ($0.02 per diluted share) of additional compensation
    costs related to accelerated vesting requirements of certain
    stock-based compensation awards;

•

$3,900,000 ($0.05 per diluted share) of additional other income
    related to the payoff of a warrant equity investment;

•

$14,437,000 ($0.18 per diluted share) of gains on the sales of
    real property; and

•

$17,469,000 ($0.22 per diluted share) prepaid/straight-line rent
    cash receipts for FAD only.

The following is a summary of certain items that impact the
    results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006:

•

$5,213,000 ($0.08 per diluted share) of merger-related expenses;

•

$1,287,000 ($0.02 per diluted share) of additional compensation
    costs related to accelerated vesting requirements of certain
    stock-based compensation awards;

•

$1,267,000 ($0.02 per diluted share) of gains on the sales of
    real property; and

•

$20,561,000 ($0.33 per diluted share) prepaid/straight-line rent
    cash receipts for FAD only.

The following is a summary of certain items that impact the
    results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005:

•

$20,662,000 ($0.38 per diluted share) of net losses on
    extinguishments of debt;

•

$4,523,000 ($0.08 per diluted share) of additional interest
    income related to the payoffs of loans that were either on
    non-accrual or partial accrual and all contractual interest due
    was received from the borrowers;

•

$3,227,000 ($0.06 per diluted share) of gains on the sales of
    real property; and

•

$13,869,000 ($0.25 per diluted share) prepaid/straight-line rent
    cash receipts for FAD only.



The increase in fully diluted average common shares outstanding
    is primarily the result of the Windrose merger, public and
    private common stock offerings and common stock issuances
    pursuant to our DRIP. The following table represents the changes
    in outstanding common stock for the period from January 1,
    2005 to December 31, 2007 (in thousands):

Year Ended

Dec. 31,

Dec. 31,

Dec. 31,




Totals

Beginning balance

52,925

58,125

73,192

52,925

Windrose merger


9,679


9,679

Public offerings

3,000

3,223

9,825

16,048

DRIP issuances

1,547

1,877

1,626

5,050

Preferred stock conversions





Option exercises




1,009

Other issuances





Ending balance

58,125

73,192

85,496

85,496

Average number of common shares outstanding:

Basic

54,110

61,661

78,861

Diluted

54,499

62,045

79,409

Revenues were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

Dec. 31, 2005

Dec. 31, 2006

$

%

Dec. 31, 2007

$

%

$

%

Rental income

$

236,081

$

290,696

$

54,615


%

$

450,164

$

159,468


%

$

214,083


%

Interest income

23,993

18,829

(5,164

)

(22

)%

25,823

6,994


%

1,830


%

Other income

4,548

3,924

(624

)

(14

)%

10,035

6,111


%

5,487


%

Totals

$

264,622

$

313,449

$

48,827


%

$

486,022

$

172,573


%

$

221,400


%

The increase in gross revenues is primarily attributable to
    increased rental income resulting from the acquisitions of new
    properties from which we receive rent. See the discussion of
    investing activities in “Liquidity and Capital
    Resources” above for further information. Certain of our
    leases contain annual rental escalators that are contingent upon
    changes in the Consumer Price Index

and/or

changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenant’s
    properties. These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line
    rent is recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on
    the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. If
    gross operating revenues at our facilities

and/or

the
    Consumer Price Index do not increase, a portion of our revenues
    may not continue to increase. Sales of real property would
    offset revenue increases and, to the extent that they exceed new
    acquisitions, could result in decreased revenues. Our leases
    could renew above or below current rent rates, resulting in an
    increase or decrease in rental income.

Interest income decreased in 2006 primarily due to recognition
    of additional interest income of approximately $4,523,000 in
    2005. The additional interest income related to the payoffs of
    loans that were either on non-accrual or partial accrual and all
    contractual interest was received from the borrowers. Interest
    income increased in 2007 primarily due to an increase in loans
    receivable.



Expenses were comprised of the following (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended

One Year

Year Ended

Two Year

Dec. 31,

Dec. 31,

Change

Dec. 31,

One Year Change

Change



$

%


$

%

$

%

Interest expense

$

74,878

$

92,436

$

17,558


%

$

134,680

$

42,244


%

$

59,802


%

Property operating expenses


1,115

1,115

n/a

37,475

36,360

3,261

%

37,475

n/a

Depreciation and amortization

70,956

88,433

17,477


%

145,893

57,460


%

74,937


%

General and administrative

16,163

26,004

9,841


%

37,653

11,649


%

21,490


%

Loan expense

2,710

3,255



%

5,977

2,722


%

3,267


%

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt

21,484


(21,484

)

(100

)%

(1,081

)

(1,081

)

n/a

(22,565

)

n/a

Provision for loan losses

1,200

1,000

(200

)

(17

)%


(1,000

)

(100

)%

(1,200

)

(100

)%

Totals

$

187,391

$

212,243

$

24,852


%

$

360,597

$

148,354


%

$

173,206


%

The increase in total expenses is primarily attributable to
    increases in interest expense, property operating expenses, the
    provisions for depreciation and amortization and general and
    administrative expenses. The increases in interest expense are
    primarily due to higher average borrowings and changes in the
    amount of capitalized interest offsetting interest expense. If
    we borrow under our unsecured line of credit arrangement, issue
    additional senior unsecured notes or assume additional secured
    debt, our interest expense will increase.

The following is a summary of our interest expense (dollars in
    thousands):

Year Ended

One Year

Year Ended

One Year

Two Year

Dec. 31,

Dec. 31,

Change

Dec. 31,

Change

Change



$

%


$

%

$

%

Senior unsecured notes

$

63,080

$

80,069

$

16,989


%

$

101,618

$

21,549


%

$

38,538


%

Secured debt

11,769

9,529

(2,240

)

(19

)%

28,543

19,014


%

16,774


%

Unsecured lines of credit

9,413

11,397

1,984


%

15,652

4,255


%

6,239


%

Subsidiary trust liability




n/a

3,104

2,992

2,671

%

3,104

n/a

Capitalized interest

(665

)

(4,470

)

(3,805

)


%

(12,526

)

(8,056

)


%

(11,861

)

1,784

%

SWAP losses (savings)

(972

)


1,169

n/a

(89

)

(286

)

n/a


(91

)%

Discontinued operations

(7,747

)

(4,398

)

3,349

(43

)%

(1,622

)

2,776

(63

)%

6,125

(79

)%

Totals

$

74,878

$

92,436

$

17,558


%

$

134,680

$

42,244


%

$

59,802


%

The change in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due
    to the net effect and timing of issuances and extinguishments.
    In May 2005, we redeemed all of our outstanding $50,000,000
    8.17% senior unsecured notes due March 2006, we completed a
    public tender offer for $57,670,000 of our outstanding
    $100,000,000 7.625% senior unsecured notes due March 2008,
    and we redeemed $122,500,000 of our outstanding $175,000,000
    7.5% senior unsecured notes due August 2007. In connection
    with that extinguishment, we recorded a $20,662,000 loss on



extinguishment of debt. In August 2007, we repaid $52,500,000 of
    7.5% senior unsecured notes at maturity. The following is a
    summary of our senior unsecured notes activity (dollars in
    thousands):

Year Ended December 31, 2005

Year Ended December 31, 2006

Year Ended December 31, 2007

Weighted Average

Weighted Average

Weighted Average

Amount

Interest Rate

Amount

Interest Rate

Amount

Interest Rate

Beginning balance

$

875,000

7.181

%

$

1,194,830

6.566

%

$

1,539,830

6.159

%

Debt issued

550,000

6.052

%

345,000

4.750

%

400,000

4.750

%

Debt extinguished

(230,170

)

7.677

%


(52,500

)

7.500

%

Ending balance

$

1,194,830

6.566

%

$

1,539,830

6.159

%

$

1,887,330

5.823

%

Monthly averages

$

961,469

6.829

%

$

1,244,445

6.494

%

$

1,704,253

5.991

%

The change in interest expense on secured debt is due to the net
    effect and timing of assumptions, extinguishments and principal
    amortizations. The following is a summary of our secured debt
    activity (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,  2005

Year Ended December 31, 2006

Year Ended December 31, 2007

Weighted Average

Weighted Average

Weighted Average

Amount

Interest Rate

Amount

Interest Rate

Amount

Interest Rate

Beginning balance

$

160,225

7.508

%

$

107,540

7.328

%

$

378,400

6.406

%

Debt assumed

22,309

6.561

%

273,893

6.053

%

166,331

5.808

%

Debt extinguished

(72,309

)

7.481

%


(29,797

)

7.338

%

Principal payments

(2,685

)

7.584

%

(3,033

)

7.226

%

(7,961

)

6.334

%

Ending balance

107,540

7.328

%

$

378,400

6.406

%

$

506,973

6.113

%

Monthly averages

$

156,027

7.452

%

$

144,512

7.021

%

$

456,795

6.204

%

The change in interest expense on unsecured lines of credit
    arrangements is due primarily to changes in average amounts
    outstanding and fluctuating variable interest rates. The
    following is a summary of our unsecured lines of credit
    arrangements (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Balance outstanding at December 31

$

195,000

$

225,000

$

307,000

Maximum amount outstanding at any month end

318,000

276,000

434,000

Average amount outstanding (total of daily principal balances
    divided by days in year)

181,232

164,905

234,392

Weighted average interest rate (actual interest expense divided
    by average borrowings outstanding)

5.19

%

6.91

%

6.68

%

At December 31, 2006, we had $51,000,000 of trust preferred
    liability principal outstanding with a fixed annual interest
    rate of 7.22%. On November 6, 2007, we purchased all
    $50,000,000 of the outstanding trust preferred securities at par
    for the purpose of unwinding this financing arrangement and, in
    December 2007, surrendered these securities and the related
    $1,000,000 liquidation amount of common securities for
    cancellation, resulting in the satisfaction and discharge of
    this $51,000,000 liability. In connection with this transaction,
    we recorded a $1,081,000 gain on extinguishment of debt. Please
    see Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for
    additional information.

We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used
    to finance the construction of properties owned directly by us.
    The amount capitalized is based upon the borrowings outstanding
    during the construction period using the rate of interest that
    approximates our cost of financing. Our interest expense is
    reduced by the amount capitalized. Capitalized interest for the
    years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 totaled
    $665,000, $4,470,000 and $12,526,000, respectively.

On May 6, 2004, we entered into two interest rate swap
    agreements (the “2004 Swaps”) for a total notional
    amount of $100,000,000 to hedge changes in fair value
    attributable to changes in the LIBOR swap rate of $100,000,000
    of fixed rate debt with a maturity date of November 15,
    2013. The 2004 Swaps were treated as fair-



value hedges for accounting purposes and we utilized the
    short-cut method to assess effectiveness. The 2004 Swaps were
    with highly rated counterparties in which we received a fixed
    rate of 6.0% and paid a variable rate based on six-month LIBOR
    plus a spread. On September 12, 2007, we terminated the
    2004 Swaps and we received a $2,125,000 cash settlement. The
    unamortized amount of this settlement at December 31, 2007
    was $1,973,000 and is recorded as an adjustment to the hedged
    item. This amount will be amortized to interest expense over the
    life of the hedged debt using the effective interest method. For
    the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, we
    generated $972,000 of savings, $197,000 of losses and $89,000 of
    savings, respectively, related to the 2004 Swaps that were
    recorded as adjustments of interest expense.

On July 2, 2007, we entered into two forward-starting
    interest rate swaps, with an aggregate notional amount of
    $200,000,000 that were designated as cash flow hedges of the
    variability in forecasted interest payments attributable to
    changes in the LIBOR swap rate, on long-term fixed rate debt
    forecasted to be issued in 2007. The 2007 Swaps have the
    economic effect of fixing $200,000,000 of our debt at 4.913% for
    five years. The 2007 Swaps were settled on July 17, 2007,
    which was the date that the forecasted debt was priced. The cash
    settlement value of these contracts at July 17, 2007, was
    $733,000. This amount represented the effective portion of the
    hedges as there was no hedge ineffectiveness. Therefore, the
    $733,000 settlement value was deferred in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (“AOCI”) and will be amortized to
    interest expense using the effective interest method. The
    unamortized amount of AOCI related to these contracts at
    December 31, 2007 is $668,000. For the year ended
    December 31, 2007, we reclassified $65,000 out of AOCI as a
    reduction of interest expense.

On September 12, 2007, we entered into two forward-starting
    interest rate swaps (the “September 2007 Swaps”) for a
    total notional amount of $250,000,000 to hedge 10 years of
    interest payments associated with a long-term borrowing that is
    expected to occur in 2008. The September 2007 Swaps each have an
    effective date of September 12, 2008 and a maturity date of
    September 12, 2018. We expect to settle the 2007 Swaps when
    the debt is priced. The September 2007 Swaps have the economic
    effect of fixing $250,000,000 of our future debt at 4.469% plus
    a credit spread for 10 years. The September 2007 Swaps have
    been designated as cash flow hedges and we expect the 2007 Swaps
    to be highly effective at offsetting changes in cash flows of
    interest payments on $250,000,000 of our future debt due to
    changes in the LIBOR swap rate. Therefore, effective changes in
    the fair value of the September 2007 Swaps will be recorded in
    AOCI and reclassified to interest expense when the hedged
    forecasted transactions affect earnings (as interest payments
    are made on the expected debt issuance). The ineffective portion
    of the changes in fair value will be recorded directly in
    earnings. At December 31, 2007, the September 2007 Swaps
    were reported at their fair value of $7,990,000 and are included
    in other liabilities and AOCI.

As discussed in our Annual Report on

Form 10-K/A

for the year ended December 31, 2006, we completed our
    merger with Windrose Medical Properties Trust on
    December 20, 2006. These operations are the principal
    component of our property operating expenses from the date of
    acquisition. There was no similar activity in the prior periods.
    In addition to a full year of operations for the Windrose
    properties, we acquired 28 medical office buildings during the
    year ended December 31, 2007.

Depreciation and amortization increased primarily as a result of
    additional investments in properties owned directly by us. See
    the discussion of investing activities in “Liquidity and
    Capital Resources” above for additional details. To the
    extent that we acquire or dispose of additional properties in
    the future, our provision for depreciation and amortization will
    change accordingly.

General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues
    (including revenues from discontinued operations) for the year
    ended December 31, 2007, were 7.64%, as compared with 8.26%
    and 5.89% for the same periods in 2006 and 2005. The increase
    from 2005 to 2006 is directly attributable to $5,213,000 of
    merger-related expenses and $1,287,000 of accelerated
    stock-based compensation expenses. The increase from 2006 to
    2007 is primarily related to the Windrose merger completed on
    December 20, 2006, the Paramount acquisition completed in
    May 2007, $1,750,000 of acquisition finders’ fees paid
    during the three months ended June 30, 2007 and costs
    associated with our initiatives to attract and retain
    appropriate personnel to achieve our business objectives. During
    the quarter ended June 30, 2007, we recorded $1,750,000 of
    one-time acquisition finders’ fees paid to former Windrose
    management in connection with the closing of the
    Rendina/Paramount transaction. These fees relate to services
    rendered prior to the consummation of the Windrose merger in
    December 2006. Due to the recipients’ current employment
    status with the company, the fees have been expensed as
    compensation rather than included in the purchase price of the
    acquisition, as is typical with such fees.



Loan expense represents the amortization of deferred loan costs
    incurred in connection with the issuance and amendments of debt.
    The change in loan expense is primarily due to costs associated
    with the issuance of $345,000,000 of senior unsecured
    convertible notes in November and December 2006, costs related
    to the assumption of secured debt in connection with the
    Windrose merger in December 2006, the issuance of $400,000,000
    of senior unsecured convertible notes in July 2007 and costs
    associated with the extension and expansion of our unsecured
    line of credit in August 2007.

As a result of our quarterly evaluations, we concluded that the
    allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2006 remained
    appropriate as of December 31, 2007. The provision for loan
    losses is related to our critical accounting estimate for the
    allowance for loan losses and is discussed below in
    “Critical Accounting Policies.”

Other items were comprised of the following (dollars in
    thousands):

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

Dec. 31, 2005

Dec. 31, 2006

$

%

Dec. 31, 2007

$

%

$

%

Minority interests

$


(13

)

(13

)

n/a

$

(238

)

$

(225

)

1,731

%

$

(238

)

n/a

Gain (loss) on sales of properties

3,227

1,267

(1,960

)

(61

)%

14,437

13,170

1,039

%

11,210


%

Discontinued operations, net

3,828


(3,538

)

(92

)%

1,778

1,488


%

(2,050

)

(54

)%

Preferred dividends

(21,594

)

(21,463

)


(1

)%

(25,130

)

(3,667

)


%

(3,536

)


%

Totals

$

(14,539

)

$

(19,919

)

$

(5,380

)


%

$

(9,153

)

$

10,766

(54

)%

$

5,386

(37

)%

During the year ended December 31, 2007, we sold ten
    assisted living facilities, one independent living facility,
    seven skilled nursing facilities and one parcel of land with
    carrying values of $83,877,000 for a net gain of $14,437,000.
    These properties generated $1,778,000 of income after deducting
    depreciation and interest expense from rental revenue for the
    year ended December 31, 2007. All properties sold
    subsequent to January 1, 2005 generated $290,000 and
    $3,828,000 of income after deducting depreciation and interest
    expense from rental revenue for the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Please refer to
    Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for
    further discussion.

The increase in preferred dividends is primarily due to the
    increase in average outstanding preferred shares. The following
    is a summary of our preferred stock activity:

Year Ended December 31, 2005

Year Ended December 31, 2006

Year Ended December 31, 2007

Weighted Average

Weighted Average

Weighted Average

Shares

Dividend Rate

Shares

Dividend Rate

Shares

Dividend Rate

Beginning balance

11,350,045

7.663

%

11,074,989

7.704

%

13,174,989

7.672

%

Shares issued


2,100,000

7.500

%


Shares converted

(275,056

)

6.000

%


(295,800

)

7.500

%

Ending balance

11,074,989

7.704

%

13,174,989

7.672

%

12,879,189

7.676

%

Monthly averages

11,245,073

7.679

%

11,236,527

7.701

%

13,129,481

7.672

%

In conjunction with the acquisition of Windrose Medical
    Properties Trust in December 2006, we issued
    2,100,000 shares of 7.5% Series G Cumulative
    Convertible Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation
    value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in
    arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may
    be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share,
    plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the
    redemption date, on or after June 30, 2010. Each
    Series G Preferred Share is convertible by the holder into
    our common stock at a conversion price of $34.93, equivalent to
    a conversion rate of 0.7157 common shares per Series G
    Preferred Share. These shares were recorded at $29.58 per share,
    which was deemed to be the fair value at the date of issuance.
    During the year ended December 31, 2007, certain holders of
    our Series G Preferred Stock converted 295,800 shares
    into 211,702 shares of our common stock, leaving 1,804,200
    of such shares outstanding at December 31, 2007.



Non-GAAP Financial
    Measures

We believe that net income available to common stockholders, as
    defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings
    measurement. However, we consider FFO and FAD to be useful
    supplemental measures of our operating performance. Historical
    cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with
    U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate
    assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the
    provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values
    have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many
    industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of
    operating results for real estate companies that use historical
    cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the National
    Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
    (“NAREIT”) created FFO as a supplemental measure of
    operating performance for REITs that excludes historical cost
    depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means
    net income, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP,
    excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate, plus
    depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for
    unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. FAD represents
    FFO excluding the net straight-line rental adjustments, rental
    income related to above/below market leases and amortization of
    deferred loan expenses and less cash used to fund capital
    expenditures, tenant improvements and lease commissions.

In April 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
    Statement No. 145 that requires gains and losses on
    extinguishment of debt to be classified as income or loss from
    continuing operations rather than as extraordinary items as
    previously required under Statement No. 4. We adopted the
    standard effective January 1, 2003. We have properly
    reflected the $21,484,000, or $0.39 per diluted share, of losses
    on extinguishment of debt for the year ended December 31,
    2005 and the $1,081,000, or $0.01 per diluted share, of gains on
    extinguishment of debt for the year ended December 31,
    2007. These amounts have not been added back for the
    calculations of FFO, FAD or EBITDA.

EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
    and amortization. We believe that EBITDA, along with net income
    and cash flow provided from operating activities, is an
    important supplemental measure because it provides additional
    information to assess and evaluate the performance of our
    operations. Additionally, restrictive covenants in our debt
    arrangements contain financial ratios based on EBITDA. We
    primarily utilize EBITDA to measure our interest coverage ratio,
    which represents EBITDA divided by total interest, and our fixed
    charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided by fixed
    charges. Fixed charges include total interest, secured debt
    principal amortization and preferred dividends.

FFO, FAD and EBITDA are financial measures that are widely used
    by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in
    the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations
    of companies. Management uses these financial measures to
    facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical
    operating results and in making operating decisions.
    Additionally, FFO and FAD are utilized by the Board of Directors
    to evaluate management. FFO, FAD and EBITDA do not represent net
    income or cash flow provided from operating activities as
    determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be
    considered as alternative measures of profitability or
    liquidity. Finally, FFO, FAD and EBITDA, as defined by us, may
    not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other
    real estate investment trusts or other companies.

Net operating income (“NOI”) is used to evaluate the
    operating performance of our properties. We define NOI as rental
    revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property level
    operating expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization,
    general and administrative expenses, impairments, interest
    expense and discontinued operations. We believe NOI provides
    investors relevant and useful information because it measures
    the operating performance of our properties at the property
    level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions
    about resource allocations and to assess the property level
    performance of our properties.



The table below reflects the reconciliation of FFO to net income
    available to common stockholders, the most directly comparable
    U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. The
    provisions for depreciation and amortization includes provisions
    for depreciation and amortization from discontinued operations.
    Amounts are in thousands except for per share data.

Year Ended

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




FFO Reconciliation:

Net income available to common stockholders

$

62,692

$

81,287

$

116,272

Depreciation and amortization

84,828

97,564

149,626

Loss (gain) on sales of properties

(3,227

)

(1,267

)

(14,437

)

Minority interests


(4

)

(344

)

Funds from operations

$

144,293

$

177,580

$

251,117

Average common shares outstanding:

Basic

54,110

61,661

78,861

Diluted

54,499

62,045

79,409

Per share data:

Net income available to common stockholders

Basic

$

1.16

$

1.32

$

1.47

Diluted

1.15

1.31

1.46

Funds from operations

Basic

$

2.67

$

2.88

$

3.18

Diluted

2.65

2.86

3.16

The table below reflects the reconciliation of FAD to net income
    available to common stockholders, the most directly comparable
    U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. The
    provisions for depreciation and amortization includes provisions
    for depreciation and amortization from discontinued operations.
    Amounts are in thousands except for per share data.

Year Ended

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




FAD Reconciliation:

Net income available to common stockholders

$

62,692

$

81,287

$

116,272

Depreciation and amortization

84,828

97,564

149,626

Loss (gain) on sales of properties

(3,227

)

(1,267

)

(14,437

)

Gross straight-line rental income

(13,142

)

(9,432

)

(17,029

)

Prepaid/straight-line rent receipts

13,869

20,561

17,469

Amortization related to above/(below) market leases, net


(60

)

(792

)

Amortization of deferred loan expenses

2,710

3,255

5,977

Cap Ex, tenant improvements, lease commissions


(21

)

(4,292

)

Minority interests


(2

)

(10

)

Funds available for distribution

$

147,730

$

191,885

$

252,784

Average common shares outstanding:

Basic

54,110

61,661

78,861

Diluted

54,499

62,045

79,409

Per share data:

Net income available to common stockholders

Basic

$

1.16

$

1.32

$

1.47

Diluted

1.15

1.31

1.46

Funds available for distribution

Basic

$

2.73

$

3.11

$

3.21

Diluted

2.71

3.09

3.18



The table below reflects the reconciliation of EBITDA to net
    income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for
    the periods presented. Interest expense and the provisions for
    depreciation and amortization includes discontinued operations.
    Tax expense represents income-based taxes. Amortization
    represents the amortization of deferred loan expenses. Adjusted
    EBITDA represents EBITDA as adjusted below for items pursuant to
    covenant provisions of our unsecured lines of credit
    arrangements. Dollars are in thousands.

Year Ended

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,




EBITDA Reconciliation:

Net income

$

84,286

$

102,750

$

141,402

Interest expense

82,625

96,834

136,302

Tax expense/(benefit)




Depreciation and amortization

84,828

97,564

149,626

Amortization of deferred loan expenses

2,710

3,255

5,977

EBITDA

254,731

300,485

433,495

Stock-based compensation expense

2,948

6,980

7,050

Provision for loan losses

1,200

1,000


Loss/(gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

20,662


(1,081

)

EBITDA - adjusted

$

279,541

$

308,465

$

439,464

Interest Coverage Ratio:

Interest expense

$

82,625

$

96,834

$

136,302

Capitalized interest


4,470

12,526

Total interest

83,290

101,304

148,828

EBITDA

$

254,731

$

300,485

$

433,495

Interest coverage ratio

3.06

x

2.97

x

2.91

x

EBITDA - adjusted

$

279,541

$

308,465

$

439,464

Interest coverage ratio - adjusted

3.36

x

3.04

x

2.95

x

Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio:

Total interest

$

83,290

$

101,304

$

148,828

Secured debt prinicipal amortization

2,685

3,033

7,961

Preferred dividends

21,594

21,463

25,130

Total fixed charges

107,569

125,800

181,919

EBITDA

$

254,731

$

300,485

$

433,495

Fixed charge coverage ratio

2.37

x

2.39

x

2.38

x

EBITDA - adjusted

$

279,541

$

308,465

$

439,464

Fixed charge coverage ratio - adjusted

2.60

x

2.45

x

2.42x

Critical
    Accounting Policies

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
    with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and
    assumptions. Management considers an accounting estimate or
    assumption critical if:

•

the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to
    the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for
    highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters
    to change; and

•

the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial
    condition or operating performance is material.

Management has discussed the development and selection of its
    critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the
    Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the
    disclosure presented below relating



to them. Management believes the current assumptions and other
    considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our
    consolidated financial statements are appropriate and are not
    reasonably likely to change in the future. However, since these
    estimates require assumptions to be made that were uncertain at
    the time the estimate was made, they bear the risk of change. If
    actual experience differs from the assumptions and other
    considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our
    consolidated financial statements, the resulting changes could
    have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of
    operations, liquidity

and/or

financial condition. Please refer to Note 1 of our audited
    consolidated financial statements for further information on
    significant accounting policies that impact us. There were no
    material changes to these policies in 2007.

The following table presents information about our critical
    accounting policies, as well as the material assumptions used to
    develop each estimate:

Nature of Critical

Assumptions/

Accounting Estimate

Approach Used

Allowance for Loan Losses

We maintain an allowance for loan losses in accordance with
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 114,
    Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan, as amended,
    and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 102, Selected
    Loan Loss Allowance Methodology and Documentation Issues. The
    allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed
    adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The
    determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly
    evaluation of all outstanding loans. If this evaluation
    indicates that there is a greater risk of loan charge-offs,
    additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may be
    required. A loan is impaired when, based on current information
    and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all
    amounts due as scheduled according to the contractual terms of
    the original loan agreement. Consistent with this definition,
    all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired. To the extent
    circumstances improve and the risk of collectibility is
    diminished, we will return these loans to full accrual status.

The determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly
    evaluation of all outstanding loans, including general economic
    conditions and estimated collectibility of loan payments and
    principal.  We evaluate the collectibility of our loans
    receivable based on a combination of factors, including, but not
    limited to, delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs,
    financial strength of the borrower and guarantors and value of
    the underlying property.

As a
    result of our quarterly evaluation, we concluded that the
    allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2006 remained
    appropriate as of December 31, 2007, resulting in an allowance
    for loan losses of $7,406,000 relating to loans with outstanding
    balances of $113,886,000.  Also at December 31, 2007, we had a
    loan with an outstanding balance of $799,000 on non-accrual
    status.

Business Combinations

Substantially all of the properties owned by us are leased under
    operating leases and are recorded at cost. The cost of our real
    property is allocated to land, buildings, improvements and
    intangibles in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 141, Business Combinations. The allocation of
    the acquisition costs of properties is based on appraisals
    commissioned from independent real estate appraisal firms.

We compute depreciation and amortization on our properties using
    the straight-line method based on their estimated useful lives
    which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and five to
    15 years for improvements. Lives for intangibles are based
    on the remaining term of the underlying leases.

For
    the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, we recorded
    $118,969,000, $16,287,000 and $14,370,000 as provisions for
    depreciation and amortization relating to buildings,
    improvements and intangibles, respectively, including amounts
    reclassified as discontinued operations.  The average useful
    life of our buildings, improvements and intangibles was
    32.0 years, 12.2 years and 4.7 years,
    respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2007.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

We review our long-lived assets for potential impairment in
    accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment and Disposal of
    Long-Lived Assets. An impairment charge must be recognized when
    the carrying value of a long-lived asset is not recoverable. The
    carrying value is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the
    undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and
    eventual disposition of the asset. If it is determined that a
    permanent impairment of a long-lived asset has occurred, the
    carrying value of the asset is reduced to its fair value and an
    impairment charge is recognized for the difference between the
    carrying value and the fair value.

The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on
    a property by property basis to determine if there are
    indicators of impairment. These indicators may include
    anticipated operating losses at the property level, the
    tenant’s inability to make rent payments, a decision to
    dispose of an asset before the end of its estimated useful life
    and changes in the market that may permanently reduce the value
    of the property.  If indicators of impairment exist, then the
    undiscounted future cash flows from the most likely use of the
    property are compared to the current net book value. This
    analysis requires us to determine if indicators of impairment
    exist and to estimate the most likely stream of cash flows to be
    generated from the property during the period the property is
    expected to be held.

We
    did not record any impairment charges for the year ended
    December 31, 2007.



Nature of Critical

Assumptions/

Accounting Estimate

Approach Used

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments

The valuation of derivative instruments is accounted for in
    accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities (“SFAS133”), as amended by Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 138, Accounting for
    Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities.
    SFAS133, as amended, requires companies to record derivatives at
    fair market value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.

The valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make
    estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the
    instruments.  Fair values for our derivatives are estimated by a
    third party consultant, which utilizes pricing models that
    consider forward yield curves and discount rates. Such amounts
    and the recognition of such amounts are subject to significant
    estimates which may change in the future.  At December 31, 2007,
    we participated in two forward-starting interest rate swap
    agreements. At December 31, 2007, the swaps were reported at
    their fair value of $7,990,000 and are included in other
    liabilities and accumulated other comprehensive income.

Revenue Recognition

Revenue is recorded in accordance with Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 13, Accounting for Leases, and SEC
    Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Revenue Recognition
    in Financial Statements, as amended (“SAB104”). SAB104
    requires that revenue be recognized after four basic criteria
    are met. These four criteria include persuasive evidence of an
    arrangement, the rendering of service, fixed and determinable
    income and reasonably assured collectibility. If the
    collectibility of revenue is determined incorrectly, the amount
    and timing of our reported revenue could be significantly
    affected. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based
    upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation
    of collectibility risk. Substantially all of our operating
    leases contain fixed and/or contingent escalating rent
    structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are
    generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial
    lease period, subject to a collectibility assessment. Rental
    income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is
    generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments
    due for the period.

We evaluate the collectibility of our revenues and related
    receivables on an on-going basis.  We evaluate collectibility
    based on assumptions and other considerations including, but not
    limited to, the certainty of payment, payment history, the
    financial strength of the investment’s underlying
    operations as measured by cash flows and payment coverages, the
    value of the underlying collateral and guaranties and current
    economic conditions.

If
    our evaluation indicates that collectibility is not reasonably
    assured, we may place an investment on non-accrual or reserve
    against all or a portion of current income as an offset to
    revenue.

For
    the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, we recognized
    $25,823,000 of interest income and $457,297,000 of rental
    income, including discontinued operations. Cash receipts on
    leases with deferred revenue provisions were $17,469,000 as
    compared to gross straight-line rental income recognized of
    $17,029,000 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007.  At
    December 31, 2007, our straight-line receivable balance was
    $52,756,000, net of reserves totaling $1,152,000.  Also at
    December 31, 2007, we had a loan with an outstanding balance of
    $799,000 on non-accrual status.

Impact of
    Inflation

During the past three years, inflation has not significantly
    affected our earnings because of the moderate inflation rate.
    Additionally, our earnings are primarily long-term investments
    with fixed rates of return. These investments are mainly
    financed with a combination of equity, senior unsecured notes
    and borrowings under our unsecured lines of credit arrangements.
    During inflationary periods, which generally are accompanied by
    rising interest rates, our ability to grow may be adversely
    affected because the yield on new investments may increase at a
    slower rate than new borrowing costs. Presuming the current
    inflation rate remains moderate and long-term interest rates do
    not increase significantly, we believe that inflation will not
    impact the availability of equity and debt financing for us.

Item 7A.

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential
    loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. We seek to
    mitigate the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by
    matching the terms of new investments with new long-term fixed
    rate borrowings to the extent possible. We may or may not elect
    to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate
    exposure. These decisions are principally based on our policy to
    match our variable rate investments with comparable borrowings,
    but are also based on the general trend in interest rates at the
    applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of
    interest rates. This section is presented to provide a
    discussion of the risks associated with potential fluctuations
    in interest rates.

We historically borrow on our unsecured lines of credit
    arrangements to acquire, construct or make loans relating to
    health care and senior housing properties. Then, as market
    conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate
    debt to repay the borrowings under the unsecured lines of credit
    arrangements.



A change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense
    associated with our fixed rate debt. Interest rate changes,
    however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate debt.
    Changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this
    fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows
    and earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with
    other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt, or equity or repaid
    by the sale of assets. To illustrate the impact of changes in
    the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis
    on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change
    in net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in
    interest rates to determine the instruments’ change in fair
    value. The following table summarizes the analysis performed as
    of the dates indicated (in thousands):

December 31,

December 31,



Principal

Change in

Principal

Change in

Balance

Fair Value

Balance

Fair Value

Senior unsecured notes

$

1,887,330

$

(96,726

)

$

1,539,830

$

(71,108

)

Secured debt

492,741

(24,530

)

363,848

(17,214

)

Liability to a subsidiary trust issuing preferred securities(1)


n/a

51,000

(1,891

)

Totals

$

2,380,071

$

(121,256

)

$

1,954,678

$

(90,213

)

(1)

At December 31, 2006, we had
    $51,000,000 of trust preferred liability principal outstanding
    with a fixed annual interest rate of 7.22%. On November 6,
    2007, we purchased all $50,000,000 of the outstanding trust
    preferred securities at par for the purpose of unwinding this
    financing arrangement and, in December 2007, surrendered these
    securities and the related $1,000,000 liquidation amount of
    common securities for cancellation, resulting in the
    satisfaction and discharge of this $51,000,000 liability. Please
    see Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for
    additional information.

On September 12, 2007, we entered into two forward-starting
    interest rate swaps (“the 2007 Swaps”) for a total
    notional amount of $250,000,000 to hedge 10 years of
    interest payments associated with a long-term borrowing that is
    expected to occur in 2008. The 2007 Swaps each have an effective
    date of September 12, 2008 and a maturity date of
    September 12, 2018. We expect to settle the 2007 Swaps when
    the debt is priced. The 2007 Swaps have the economic effect of
    fixing $250,000,000 of our future debt at 4.469% plus a credit
    spread for 10 years. The 2007 Swaps have been designated as
    cash flow hedges and we expect the 2007 Swaps to be highly
    effective at offsetting changes in cash flows of interest
    payments on $250,000,000 of our future debt due to changes in
    the LIBOR swap rate. Therefore, effective changes in the fair
    value of the 2007 Swaps will be recorded in accumulated other
    comprehensive income and reclassified to interest expense when
    the hedged forecasted transactions affect earnings (as interest
    payments are made on the expected debt issuance). The
    ineffective portion of the changes in fair value will be
    recorded directly in earnings. At December 31, 2007, the
    2007 Swaps were reported at their fair value of $7,990,000 and
    are included in other liabilities and accumulated other
    comprehensive income. A 1% increase in interest rates would
    result in an increase in fair value of our 2007 Swaps by
    approximately $10,871,000 at December 31, 2007.

Our variable rate debt, including our unsecured line of credit
    arrangement, is reflected at fair value. At December 31,
    2007, we had $321,232,000 outstanding related to our variable
    rate debt and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1%
    increase in interest rates would result in increased annual
    interest expense of $3,212,000. At December 31, 2006, we
    had $239,552,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt
    and assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase
    in interest rates would have resulted in increased annual
    interest expense of $2,396,000.

We are subject to risks associated with debt financing,
    including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be
    refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be as
    favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. The majority of
    our borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual
    agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur.
    Accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional
    equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability
    to acquire additional properties may be limited.

For additional information regarding fair values of financial
    instruments, see “Item 7 — Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Critical Accounting Policies” and
    Note 15 to our audited consolidated financial statements.



Item 8.

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Health Care REIT, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Health Care REIT, Inc. as of December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    and the related consolidated statements of income,
    stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2007. Our audits
    also included the financial statement schedules listed in
    Item 15(a) (2) of this

Form 10-K.

These financial statements and schedules are the responsibility
    of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
    express an opinion on these financial statements based on our
    audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Health Care REIT, Inc. at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the consolidated results of
    its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in
    the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
    opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when
    considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
    as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the
    information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial
    statements, effective January 1, 2006, the Company changed
    its method of accounting for stock-based compensation to conform
    to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),
    “Share-Based Payment.”

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
    Health Care REIT, Inc.’s internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria
    established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by
    the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission and our report dated February 27, 2008 expressed
    an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/

Ernst &
    Young LLP

Toledo, Ohio

February 27, 2008



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS

December 31,



(In thousands)

ASSETS

Real estate investments:

Real property owned

Land and land improvements

$

447,029

$

386,693

Buildings and improvements

4,224,955

3,659,065

Acquired lease intangibles

131,312

84,082

Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation


14,796

Construction in progress

313,709

138,222

5,117,005

4,282,858

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization

(478,373

)

(347,007

)

Total real property owned

4,638,632

3,935,851

Loans receivable

381,394

194,448

Less allowance for losses on loans receivable

(7,406

)

(7,406

)

373,988

187,042

Net real estate investments

5,012,620

4,122,893

Other assets:

Equity investments

1,408

4,700

Deferred loan expenses

30,499

20,657

Cash and cash equivalents

30,269

36,216

Receivables and other assets

139,060

96,144

201,236

157,717

Total assets

$

5,213,856

$

4,280,610

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Liabilities:

Borrowings under unsecured lines of credit arrangements

$

307,000

$

225,000

Senior unsecured notes

1,890,192

1,541,814

Secured debt

507,476

378,972

Liability to subsidiary trust issuing preferred securities


52,215

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

95,145

101,588

Total liabilities

2,799,813

2,299,589

Minority interests

9,687

2,228

Stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, $1.00 par value:

330,243

338,993

Authorized — 50,000,000 shares

Issued and outstanding — 12,879,189 in 2007 and
    13,174,989 in 2006 at liquidation preference

Common stock, $1.00 par value:

85,412

73,152

Authorized — 225,000,000 shares

Issued — 85,600,333 shares in 2007 and
    73,272,052 shares in 2006

Outstanding — 85,496,164 shares in 2007 and
    73,192,128 shares in 2006

Capital in excess of par value

2,370,037

1,873,811

Treasury stock

(3,952

)

(2,866

)

Cumulative net income

1,074,255

932,853

Cumulative dividends

(1,446,959

)

(1,238,860

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

(7,381

)

(135

)

Other equity

2,701

1,845

Total stockholders’ equity

2,404,356

1,978,793

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity

$

5,213,856

$

4,280,610

See accompanying notes



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands, except per share data)

Revenues:

Rental income

$

450,164

$

290,696

$

236,081

Interest income

25,823

18,829

23,993

Other income

10,035

3,924

4,548

486,022

313,449

264,622

Expenses:

Interest expense

134,680

92,436

74,878

Property operating expenses

37,475

1,115


Depreciation and amortization

145,893

88,433

70,956

General and administrative

37,653

26,004

16,163

Loan expense

5,977

3,255

2,710

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt

(1,081

)


21,484

Provision for loan losses


1,000

1,200

360,597

212,243

187,391

Income before minority interests

125,425

101,206

77,231

Minority interests

(238

)

(13

)


Income from continuing operations

125,187

101,193

77,231

Discontinued operations:

Gain (loss) on sales of properties

14,437

1,267

3,227

Income from discontinued operations, net

1,778


3,828

16,215

1,557

7,055

Net income

141,402

102,750

84,286

Preferred stock dividends

25,130

21,463

21,594

Net income available to common stockholders

$

116,272

$

81,287

$

62,692

Average number of common shares outstanding:

Basic

78,861

61,661

54,110

Diluted

79,409

62,045

54,499

Earnings per share:

Basic:

Income from continuing operations available to common
    stockholders

$

1.27

$

1.29

$

1.03

Discontinued operations, net

0.21

0.03

0.13

Net income available to common stockholders*

$

1.47

$

1.32

$

1.16

Diluted:

Income from continuing operations available to common
    stockholders

$

1.26

$

1.29

$

1.02

Discontinued operations, net

0.20

0.03

0.13

Net income available to common stockholders*

$

1.46

$

1.31

$

1.15

*

Amounts may not sum due to rounding

See accompanying notes



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Accumulated

Capital in

Other

Preferred

Common

Excess of

Treasury

Cumulative

Cumulative

Comprehensive

Other

Stock

Stock

Par Value

Stock

Net Income

Dividends

Income

Equity

Total

(In thousands, except per share data)

Balances at December 31, 2004

$

283,751

$

52,860

$

1,139,723

$

(1,286

)

$

745,817

$

(884,890

)

$


$

(697

)

$

1,335,279

Comprehensive income:

Net income

84,286

84,286

Other comprehensive income:

Unrealized loss on equity investments

(1

)

(1

)

Total comprehensive income

84,285

Amounts related to issuance of common stock from dividend
    reinvestment and stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures

1,980

62,105

(768

)

63,317

Restricted stock amortization



Option compensation expense



Proceeds from issuance of common stock

3,000

97,977

100,977

Conversion of preferred stock

(6,876

)


6,666


Cash dividends:

Common stock-$2.46 per share

(132,548

)

(132,548

)

Preferred stock,

Series D-$1.96875

per share

(7,875

)

(7,875

)

Preferred stock,

Series E-$1.50

per share

(375

)

(375

)

Preferred stock,

Series F-$1.90625

per share

(13,344

)

(13,344

)

Balances at December 31, 2005

276,875

58,050

1,306,471

(2,054

)

830,103

(1,039,032

)



1,430,756

Comprehensive income:

Net income

102,750

102,750

Total comprehensive income

102,750

Adjustment to adopt SFAS 158

(135

)

(135

)

Amounts related to issuance of common stock from dividend
    reinvestment and stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures

2,200

75,081

(812

)

(85

)

76,384

Option compensation expense

1,066

1,066

Shares issued in Windrose Medical Properties Trust merger

62,118

9,679

386,255

458,052

Net proceeds from sale of common stock

3,223

106,525

109,748

SFAS 123(R) reclassification

(521

)



Cash dividends:

Common stock-$2.8809 per share

(178,365

)

(178,365

)

Preferred stock,

Series D-$1.96875

per share

(7,875

)

(7,875

)

Preferred stock,

Series E-$1.50

per share

(112

)

(112

)

Preferred stock,

Series F-$1.90625

per share

(13,344

)

(13,344

)

Preferred stock,

Series G-$0.0625

per share

(132

)

(132

)

Balances at December 31, 2006

338,993

73,152

1,873,811

(2,866

)

932,853

(1,238,860

)

(135

)

1,845

1,978,793

Net income

141,402

141,402

Other comprehensive income:

Unrealized loss on equity investments

(192

)

(192

)

Unrecognized actuarial gain/(loss)



Cash flow hedge activity

(7,194

)

(7,194

)

Total comprehensive income

134,156

Amounts related to issuance of common stock from dividend
    reinvestment and stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures

2,223

85,080

(1,086

)

(250

)

85,967

Conversion of preferred stock

(8,750

)


8,538


Option compensation expense

1,106

1,106

Net proceeds from sale of common stock

9,825

402,608

412,433

Cash dividends:

Common stock-$2.2791 per share

(182,969

)

(182,969

)

Preferred stock,

Series D-$1.96875

per share

(7,875

)

(7,875

)

Preferred stock,

Series E-$1.50

per share

(112

)

(112

)

Preferred stock,

Series F-$1.90625

per share

(13,344

)

(13,344

)

Preferred stock,

Series G-$1.875

per share

(3,799

)

(3,799

)

Balances at December 31, 2007

$

330,243

$

85,412

$

2,370,037

$

(3,952

)

$

1,074,255

$

(1,446,959

)

$

(7,381

)

$

2,701

$

2,404,356

See accompanying notes



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Operating activities

Net income

$

141,402

$

102,750

$

84,286

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided from
    operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

149,626

97,564

84,828

Other amortization expenses

6,018

3,090

3,935

Stock-based compensation expense

7,050

6,980

2,948

Capitalized interest

(12,526

)

(4,470

)

(665

)

Provision for loan losses


1,000

1,200

Minority interests share of earnings




Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

(1,081

)


20,662

Gain on investment

(3,900

)



Amortization of above/below market leases, net

(792

)

(60

)


Rental income less than (in excess of) cash received


11,129


Loss (gain) on sales of properties

(14,437

)

(1,267

)

(3,227

)

Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other liabilities

(3,253

)

5,810

(3,375

)

Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets

(4,902

)

(6,093

)

3,098

Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities

263,883

216,446

194,417

Investing activities

Investment in real property

(631,209

)

(429,183

)

(599,291

)

Investment in loans receivable

(235,894

)

(86,990

)

(40,387

)

Other investments, net of payments

(22,998

)

(11,761

)


Principal collected on loans receivable

52,346

82,255

98,638

Investment in Windrose, net of cash assumed


(182,571

)


Investment in Rendina/Paramount, net of cash assumed

(141,963

)



Proceeds from sales of properties

98,314

69,887

91,325

Other

(3,932

)

(2,452

)


Net cash provided from (used in) investing activities

(885,336

)

(560,815

)

(449,069

)

Financing activities

Net increase (decrease) under unsecured lines of credit
    arrangements

82,000

30,000

44,000

Proceeds from derivative transactions

2,858



Proceeds from issuance of senior unsecured notes

388,943

337,517

544,053

Payments to extinguish senior unsecured notes

(52,500

)


(250,832

)

Payments to extinguish liability to subsidiary trust issuing
    preferred securities

(50,000

)



Principal payments on secured debt

(37,758

)

(3,033

)

(74,994

)

Net proceeds from the issuance of common stock

491,593

182,069

165,062

Contributions by minority interests

2,865



Distributions to minority interests

(419

)



Decrease (increase) in deferred loan expense

(3,977

)

(2,377

)

(2,021

)

Cash distributions to stockholders

(208,099

)

(199,828

)

(154,142

)

Net cash provided from (used in) financing activities

615,506

344,348

271,126

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

(5,947

)

(21

)

16,474

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

36,216

36,237

19,763

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

30,269

$

36,216

$

36,237

Supplemental cash flow information — interest paid

$

116,044

$

94,461

$

85,123

Supplemental schedule of non-cash activities:

Assets and liabilities assumed from real property acquisitions:

Secured debt

$

19,731

$

25,049

$

22,309

Other liabilities

3,597



Other assets




Assets and liabilities assumed from business combinations:

Real estate investments

$

285,302

$

975,660


Other assets acquired

10,050

22,526


Secured debt

146,457

249,424


Liability to subsidiary trust issuing preferred securities


52,217


Other liabilities

6,932

40,025


Minority interests


6,989


Issuance of common stock


396,846


Issuance of preferred stock


62,118


See accompanying notes



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.

Accounting
    Policies and Related Matters

Industry

We are an equity real estate investment trust that invests
    across the full spectrum of senior housing and health care real
    estate including skilled nursing facilities, independent living
    facilities/continuing care retirement communities, assisted
    living facilities, hospitals, long-term acute care hospitals and
    medical office buildings.

Principles
    of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include our accounts, the
    accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and the accounts of
    our majority owned and controlled joint ventures. All material
    intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

Use of
    Estimates

The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us
    to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts
    reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
    Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Revenue
    Recognition

Revenue is recorded in accordance with Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 13, Accounting for Leases, and SEC
    Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Revenue Recognition
    in Financial Statements, as amended (“SAB 104”).
    SAB 104 requires that revenue be recognized after four
    basic criteria are met. These four criteria include persuasive
    evidence of an arrangement, the rendering of service, fixed and
    determinable income and reasonably assured collectibility.
    Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the
    principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of
    collectibility risk. Substantially all of our operating leases
    contain either fixed or contingent escalating rent structures.
    Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally
    recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease
    period, subject to a collectibility assessment. Rental income
    related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally
    recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for
    the period.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid
    investments with an original maturity of three months or less.

Restricted
    Cash

Restricted cash, a component of other assets, primarily consists
    of amounts held by lenders to provide future payments for real
    estate taxes, insurance, tenant and capital improvements.
    Additionally, restricted cash includes amounts held in escrow
    relating to acquisitions we are entitled to receive over a
    period of time as outlined in the escrow agreement. Restricted
    cash balances as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 were
    $17,575,000 and $9,972,000, respectively.

Real
    Estate Loans Receivable

Real estate loans receivable consist of mortgage loans and other
    real estate loans. Interest income on loans is recognized as
    earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an
    evaluation of collectibility risks. The loans are primarily
    collateralized by a first, second or third mortgage lien, a
    leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the partnership
    interest in, the related properties, corporate guaranties

and/or

personal guaranties.

Allowance
    for Loan Losses

The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed
    adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The
    determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly
    evaluation of these loans, including general economic conditions
    and estimated collectibility of loan payments. We evaluate the
    collectibility of our loans



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

receivable based on a combination of factors, including, but not
    limited to, delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs,
    financial strength of the borrower and guarantors and value of
    the underlying collateral. If such factors indicate that there
    is greater risk of loan charge-offs, additional allowances or
    placement on non-accrual status may be required. A loan is
    impaired when, based on current information and events, it is
    probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as
    scheduled according to the contractual terms of the original
    loan agreement. Consistent with this definition, all loans on
    non-accrual are deemed impaired. At December 31, 2007, we
    had loans with outstanding balances of $799,000 on non-accrual
    status ($10,529,000 at December 31, 2006). To the extent
    circumstances improve and the risk of collectibility is
    diminished, we will return these loans to full accrual status.
    While a loan is on non-accrual status, any cash receipts are
    applied against the outstanding principal balance.

Real
    Property Owned

Real property developed by us is recorded at cost, including the
    capitalization of construction period interest. The cost of real
    property acquired is allocated to net tangible and identifiable
    intangible assets based on their respective fair values in
    accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 141, Business Combinations. The allocation of the
    acquisition costs of tangible assets (land, building and
    equipment) is based on appraisals commissioned from independent
    real estate appraisal firms. Substantially all of the properties
    owned by us are leased under operating leases and are recorded
    at cost. These properties are depreciated on a straight-line
    basis over their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to
    40 years for buildings and five to 15 years for
    improvements.

The remaining purchase price is allocated among identifiable
    intangible assets primarily consisting of the above or below
    market component of in-place leases and the value of in-place
    leases. The value allocable to the above or below market
    component of the acquired in-place lease is determined based
    upon the present value (using a discount rate which reflects the
    risks associated with the acquired leases) of the difference
    between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to
    the lease over its remaining term, and
    (ii) management’s estimate of the amounts that would
    be paid using fair market rates over the remaining term of the
    lease. The amounts allocated to above market leases are included
    in acquired lease intangibles and below market leases are
    included in other liabilities in the balance sheet and are
    amortized to rental income over the remaining terms of the
    respective leases.

The total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further
    allocated to in-place lease values and customer relationship
    values based on management’s evaluation of the specific
    characteristics of each tenant’s lease and the
    Company’s overall relationship with that respective tenant.
    Characteristics considered by management in allocating these
    values include the nature and extent of the Company’s
    existing business relationships with the tenant, growth
    prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the
    tenant’s credit quality and expectations of lease renewals,
    among other factors. The estimated aggregate amortization
    expense for acquired lease intangibles is expected to be
    recognized over a weighted average period of 28.4 years and is
    as follows for the periods indicated (dollars in thousands):


$

15,448


10,552


9,230


7,319


5,675

Thereafter

64,798

Totals

$

113,022

The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on
    a property by property basis to determine if facts and
    circumstances suggest that the assets may be impaired or that
    the depreciable life may need to be changed. We consider
    external factors relating to each asset. If these external
    factors and the projected undiscounted cash



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

flows of the asset over the remaining depreciation period
    indicate that the asset will not be recoverable, the carrying
    value may be reduced to the estimated fair market value.

Capitalization
    of Construction Period Interest

We capitalize interest costs associated with funds used to
    finance the construction of properties owned directly by us. The
    amount capitalized is based upon the balance outstanding during
    the construction period using the rate of interest which
    approximates our cost of financing. We capitalized interest
    costs of $12,526,000, $4,470,000, and $665,000 during 2007, 2006
    and 2005, respectively, related to construction of real property
    owned by us. Our interest expense reflected in the consolidated
    statements of income has been reduced by the amounts capitalized.

Deferred
    Loan Expenses

Deferred loan expenses are costs incurred by us in connection
    with the issuance, assumption and amendments of debt
    arrangements. We amortize these costs over the term of the debt
    using the straight-line method, which approximates the effective
    interest method.

Equity
    Investments

Equity investments at December 31, 2007 consist of an
    investment in a public company that has a readily determinable
    fair market value. We classify this equity investment as
    available-for-sale and, accordingly, record this investment at
    its fair market value with unrealized gains and losses included
    in accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component
    of stockholders’ equity. This investment represents a
    minimal ownership interest in the company. Equity investments at
    December 31, 2006 consisted of investments in private
    companies where we did not have the ability to exercise
    influence and were accounted for under the cost method. Under
    the cost method of accounting, investments in private companies
    are carried at cost and are adjusted only for
    other-than-temporary declines in fair value, distributions of
    earnings and additional investments. These investments
    represented a minimal ownership interest in these companies.
    Additionally, in connection with the Windrose merger, we assumed
    a $1,000,000 investment in an unconsolidated subsidiary that
    holds trust preferred securities and is accounted for under the
    cost method.

Segment
    Reporting

We report consolidated financial statements in accordance with
    Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 131,
    Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
    Information. Segments are based on our method of internal
    reporting which classifies operations by leasing activities. Our
    segments include investment properties and operating properties.
    See Note 18 for additional information.

Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive Income

Accumulated other comprehensive income includes amounts related
    to our cash flow hedge activity, unrealized gains or losses on
    our equity investments and unrecognized actuarial gains/losses
    from the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension
    and Other Postretirement Plans — An amendment of FASB
    Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) on December 31,
    2006.

Fair
    Value of Derivative Instruments

We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential
    loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. We may
    elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest
    rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on our
    policy to match our variable rate investments with comparable
    borrowings, but are also based on the general trend in interest
    rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future
    volatility of interest rates. Derivatives are recorded at fair
    market value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.

On May 6, 2004, we entered into two interest rate swap
    agreements (the “2004 Swaps”) for a total notional
    amount of $100,000,000 to hedge changes in fair value
    attributable to changes in the LIBOR swap rate of $100,000,000
    of fixed rate debt with a maturity date of November 15,
    2013. The 2004 Swaps were treated as fair-



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

value hedges for accounting purposes and we utilized the
    short-cut method to assess effectiveness. The 2004 Swaps were
    with highly rated counterparties in which we received a fixed
    rate of 6.0% and paid a variable rate based on six-month LIBOR
    plus a spread. On September 12, 2007, we terminated the
    2004 Swaps and we received a $2,125,000 cash settlement. The
    unamortized amount of this settlement at December 31, 2007
    was $1,973,000 and is recorded as an adjustment to the hedged
    item. This amount will be amortized to interest expense over the
    life of the hedged debt using the effective interest method. For
    the year ended December 31, 2007, we generated $89,000 of
    savings related to the 2004 Swaps that was recorded as a
    reduction of interest expense. For the year ended
    December 31, 2006, we incurred $197,000 of losses related
    to the 2004 Swaps that was recorded as an addition to interest
    expense. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we generated
    $972,000 of savings related to the 2004 Swaps that was recorded
    as a reduction of interest expense.

On July 2, 2007, we entered into two forward-starting
    interest rate swaps (the “July 2007 Swaps”), with an
    aggregate notional amount of $200,000,000 that were designated
    as cash flow hedges of the variability in forecasted interest
    payments attributable to changes in the LIBOR swap rate, on
    long-term fixed rate debt forecasted to be issued in 2007. The
    July 2007 Swaps have the economic effect of fixing $200,000,000
    of our debt at 4.913% for five years. The July 2007 Swaps were
    settled on July 17, 2007, which was the date that the
    forecasted debt was priced. The cash settlement value of these
    contracts at July 17, 2007, was $733,000. This amount
    represented the effective portion of the hedges as there was no
    hedge ineffectiveness. Therefore, the $733,000 settlement value
    was deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income
    (“AOCI”) and will be amortized to interest expense
    using the effective interest method. The unamortized amount of
    AOCI related to these contracts at December 31, 2007 is
    $668,000. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we
    reclassified $65,000 out of AOCI as a reduction of interest
    expense.

On September 12, 2007, we entered into two forward-starting
    interest rate swaps (the “September 2007 Swaps”) for a
    total notional amount of $250,000,000 to hedge 10 years of
    interest payments associated with a long-term borrowing that is
    expected to occur in 2008. The September 2007 Swaps each have an
    effective date of September 12, 2008 and a maturity date of
    September 12, 2018. We expect to settle the 2007 Swaps when
    the debt is priced. The September 2007 Swaps have the economic
    effect of fixing $250,000,000 of our future debt at 4.469% plus
    a credit spread for 10 years. The September 2007 Swaps have
    been designated as cash flow hedges and we expect the 2007 Swaps
    to be highly effective at offsetting changes in cash flows of
    interest payments on $250,000,000 of our future debt due to
    changes in the LIBOR swap rate. Therefore, effective changes in
    the fair value of the September 2007 Swaps will be recorded in
    AOCI and reclassified to interest expense when the hedged
    forecasted transactions affect earnings (as interest payments
    are made on the expected debt issuance). The ineffective portion
    of the changes in fair value will be recorded directly in
    earnings. At December 31, 2007, the September 2007 Swaps
    were reported at their fair value of $7,990,000 and are included
    in other liabilities and AOCI.

The valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make
    estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the
    instruments. Fair values for our derivatives are estimated by a
    third party consultant, which utilizes pricing models that
    consider forward yield curves and discount rates. Such amounts
    and the recognition of such amounts are subject to significant
    estimates that may change in the future.

Earnings
    Per Share

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income
    available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number
    of shares outstanding for the period adjusted for non-vested
    shares of restricted stock. The computation of diluted earnings
    per share is similar to basic earnings per share, except that
    the number of shares is increased to include the number of
    additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the
    potentially dilutive common shares had been issued.

Federal
    Income Tax

No provision has been made for federal income taxes since we
    have elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust
    under the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code,
    and we believe that we have met the



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

requirements for qualification as such for each taxable year.
    Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and
    local income taxes. See Note 12.

New
    Accounting Standards

On January 1, 2007, we adopted Financial Accounting
    Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48,
    Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. The Interpretation
    clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
    recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements in
    accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The Interpretation
    prescribes guidance for recognizing, measuring, reporting and
    disclosing a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax
    return. The adoption of the Interpretation did not have a
    material impact on our financial position or results of
    operations.

In September 2006, the FASB also issued Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 157, Fair Value Measurements
    (“SFAS 157”), which defines fair value,
    establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally
    accepted accounting principles, and expands disclosures about
    fair value measurements. SFAS 157 will be effective for
    fiscal year 2008. Adoption of SFAS 157 is not expected to
    have a material impact on our financial position, although
    additional disclosures may be required.

In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 159, The Fair Value Option for
    Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
    (“SFAS 159”), which permits companies to elect to
    measure certain eligible items at fair value. Subsequent
    unrealized gains and losses on those items will be reported in
    earnings. Upfront costs and fees related to those items will be
    reported in earnings as incurred and not deferred. SFAS 159
    will be effective for fiscal year 2008. If a company elects to
    apply the provisions of SFAS 159 to eligible items existing
    at that date, the effect of the remeasurement to fair value will
    be reported as a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening
    balance of retained earnings. Retrospective application will not
    be permitted. We are currently assessing whether we will elect
    to use the fair value option for any eligible items.

In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 141(R), Business Combinations
    (“SFAS 141(R)”) and Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standard No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in
    Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB
    No. 51 (“SFAS 160”). SFAS 141(R) will
    change how business acquisitions are accounted for and will
    impact financial statements both on the acquisition date and in
    subsequent periods. SFAS 160 will change the accounting and
    reporting for minority interests, which will be recharacterized
    as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of
    equity. Early adoption is prohibited for both standards. The
    provisions of SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160, effective on
    January 1, 2009, are to be applied prospectively.

Reclassifications

Certain amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform
    to the current year presentation.

2.

Business
    Combinations

Windrose
    Medical Properties Trust Merger

As discussed in our Annual Report on

Form 10-K/A

for the year ended December 31, 2006, we completed our
    merger with Windrose Medical Properties Trust on
    December 20, 2006. These operations are the principal
    component of our operating property segment (see Note 18).
    During the year ended December 31, 2007, we finalized the
    purchase price allocation for the Windrose merger, as required
    by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141,
    Business Combinations. The updated purchase price allocation
    reflects reallocations between identifiable tangible and
    intangible assets. However, these adjustments did not have a
    significant impact on our consolidated results of operations.



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table presents the updated purchase price
    calculation and the allocation to assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed, based upon their estimated fair values (in
    thousands):

Common stock

$

396,846

Preferred stock

62,118

Cash consideration

183,139

Assumed debt

301,641

Assumed liabilities and minority interests

26,034

Acquisition costs

29,139

Purchase price

998,917

Merger-related expenses

5,213

Capitalized equity issuance costs


Net purchase price

$

992,792

Land and land improvements

$

126,079

Buildings and improvements

774,634

Acquired lease intangibles

42,595

Above market lease intangibles

32,352

Cash and cash equivalents

15,587

Receivables and other assets

22,526

Total assets acquired

1,013,773

Below market lease intangibles

20,981

Net purchase price

992,792

Secured debt

249,424

Liability to subsidiary trust issuing preferred securities

52,217

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

19,044

Total liabilities assumed

320,685

Minority interests

6,989

Net assets acquired

$

665,118



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Rendina/Paramount
    Acquisition

In May 2007, we completed the acquisition of 17 medical office
    buildings and Paramount Real Estate Services, a property
    management company, from affiliates of Rendina Companies. The
    results of operations for these properties and Paramount have
    been included in our consolidated results of operations from the
    date of acquisition. Allocation of the purchase price has been
    finalized. The following table presents the updated purchase
    price calculation and the allocation to assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed, based upon their estimated fair values (in
    thousands):

Cash consideration

$

141,967

Assumed debt

146,457

Assumed liabilities and minority interests

3,410

Net purchase price

$

291,834

Land and land improvements

$

6,657

Buildings and improvements

228,004

Acquired lease intangibles

33,474

Above market lease intangibles

17,167

Cash and cash equivalents


Receivables and other assets

10,050

Total assets acquired

295,356

Below market lease intangibles

3,522

Net purchase price

291,834

Secured debt

146,457

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

3,410

Total liabilities assumed

149,867

Net assets acquired

$

141,967

3.

Real
    Estate Loans Receivable

The following is a summary of real estate loans receivable (in
    thousands):

December 31,



Mortgage loans

$

143,091

$

177,615

Other real estate loans

238,303

16,833

Totals

$

381,394

$

194,448



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following is a summary of mortgage loans at
    December 31, 2007:

Final

Number

Principal

Payment

of

Amount at

Carrying

Due

Loans

Payment Terms

Inception

Amount

(In thousands)



Monthly payments from $7,886 to $71,447,

including interest from 15.21% to 19.26%

$

16,140

$

17,722



Monthly payments from $11,830 to $169,818,

including interest from 9.63% to 19.26%

38,972

28,108



Monthly payments from $14,222 to $19,761,

including interest from 9.00% to 19.00%

4,623

4,768



Monthly payments from $21,047 to $24,735,

including interest from 19.00% to 19.26%

5,827

6,084



Monthly payments from $24,922 to $130,949, including interest
    from 7.00% to 19.26%

28,741

19,169



Monthly payments from $21,654 to $25,351,

including interest from 7.25% to 11.63%

6,516

6,136



Monthly payments of $489,

including interest of 9.00%





Monthly payments from $41,282 to $312,198,

including interest of 10.14%

38,500

37,942



Monthly payments of $180,542,

including interest of 9.38%

23,097

23,097

Totals

$

162,481

$

143,091

4.

Allowance
    for Loan Losses

The following is a summary of the allowance for loan losses (in
    thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Balance at beginning of year

$

7,406

$

6,461

$

5,261

Provision for loan losses


1,000

1,200

Charge-offs


(55

)


Balance at end of year

$

7,406

$

7,406

$

6,461

The following is a summary of our loan impairments (in
    thousands):

December 31,




Balance of impaired loans at year end

$


$

10,529

$

16,770

Allowance for loan losses

7,406

7,406

6,461

Balance of impaired loans not reserved(1)

$


$

3,123

$

10,309

Average impaired loans for the year

$

5,664

$

13,650

$

26,344

Interest recognized on impaired loans


2,495

2,391

(1)

At December 31, 2007, the
    allowance for loan losses exceeds the balance of impaired loans.
    See Note 1 for additional information.



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

5.

Real
    Property Owned

The following table summarizes certain information about our
    real property owned as of December 31, 2007 (dollars in
    thousands):

Building,

Accumulated

Number of

Intangibles &

Gross

Depreciation

Properties

Land

Improvements

Investment

and Amortization

Assisted Living Facilities:

Arizona


$

2,100

$

17,563

$

19,663

$

2,903

California


8,920

53,399

62,319

8,868

Colorado



3,721

4,661


Connecticut


8,030

36,800

44,830

5,481

Delaware



21,220

21,780

1,795

Florida


5,487

59,753

65,240

16,034

Georgia


1,080

3,688

4,768


Idaho


1,125

14,875

16,000

1,781

Illinois


7,077

15,300

22,377


Indiana



5,520

5,740


Kansas



10,590

11,190


Kentucky



7,610

8,100


Louisiana


1,100

10,161

11,261

4,106

Maryland



9,155

10,025

1,197

Massachusetts


8,160

62,481

70,641

6,549

Mississippi


1,080

13,465

14,545

1,878

Montana


1,460

14,772

16,232

2,072

Nevada


1,820

25,126

26,946

4,055

New Jersey



7,447

8,187

1,203

New York


2,400

40,447

42,847

2,273

North Carolina


15,863

181,381

197,244

28,640

Ohio


3,294

30,985

34,279

7,611

Oklahoma


1,784

22,890

24,674

7,406

Oregon


1,167

11,099

12,266

2,424

Pennsylvania


2,234

13,409

15,643

1,848

South Carolina



7,308

7,950

1,098

Tennessee


1,526

11,989

13,515

1,890

Texas


10,226

120,612

130,838

16,062

Utah


1,420

12,842

14,262

1,791

Virginia


2,300

40,785

43,085

3,863

Washington


6,880

49,235

56,115

3,630

Wisconsin


5,010

54,634

59,644

2,077

Construction in progress




61,576



106,605

990,262

1,158,443

142,937



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Building,

Accumulated

Number of

Intangibles &

Gross

Depreciation

Properties

Land

Improvements

Investment

and Amortization

Skilled Nursing Facilities:

Alabama


$

2,520

$

36,990

$

39,510

$

5,202

Arizona


1,870

15,978

17,848

1,002

Colorado


3,460

31,246

34,706

3,529

Connecticut


2,700

22,354

25,054

1,216

Florida


23,312

280,502

303,814

40,908

Georgia


2,650

14,932

17,582

1,842

Idaho


1,410

13,279

14,689

3,922

Illinois


1,110

24,700

25,810

9,414

Indiana


2,034

37,829

39,863

6,661

Kansas


1,120

8,360

9,480


Kentucky


3,015

65,432

68,447

6,520

Louisiana



34,717

35,500

2,333

Maryland



14,760

15,600


Massachusetts


17,390

205,347

222,737

30,526

Mississippi


1,625

52,651

54,276

9,025

Missouri


1,247

23,827

25,074

6,999

Nevada



2,503

2,685


New Hampshire



4,360

4,700


New Jersey


1,850

3,050

4,900


Ohio


12,000

195,506

207,506

19,648

Oklahoma


1,464

21,884

23,348

3,156

Oregon



5,316

5,616

1,611

Pennsylvania


3,179

21,414

24,593

5,668

Tennessee


8,730

122,604

131,334

21,143

Texas


11,296

144,670

155,966

8,988

Utah



6,850

7,841


Virginia


4,321

38,482

42,803

1,951

Construction in progress




9,593



111,739

1,449,543

1,570,875

194,548

Independent Living / CCRC Facilities:

Arizona



9,087

10,037

1,843

California


17,960

123,544

141,504

6,234

Colorado


7,629

29,128

36,757


Florida


9,772

108,840

118,612

12,596

Georgia


3,256

24,759

28,015

10,001

Idaho



14,740

15,290

2,093

Illinois



6,780

7,450

1,152

Indiana



31,325

32,075


Kansas


1,400

11,000

12,400


Missouri



5,490

6,000


Nevada


1,144

10,831

11,975

4,718

New York


1,510

9,490

11,000

1,513

North Carolina


3,120

20,309

23,429

1,081

South Carolina


7,190

64,072

71,262

4,113

Texas


5,670

16,620

22,290

3,624

Washington



4,780

5,400


Construction in progress




194,834



62,701

490,795

748,330

51,660



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Building,

Accumulated

Number of

Intangibles

Gross

Depreciation

Properties

Land

& Improvements

Investment

and Amortization

Medical Office Buildings:

Alabama


$

2,902

$

43,949

$

46,851

$

1,847

Alaska



30,476

30,693


Arizona


2,724

77,243

79,967

4,185

California


7,545

123,943

131,488

5,396

Colorado



6,711

7,588


Florida


42,052

262,530

304,582

12,918

Georgia


17,507

75,992

93,499

4,351

Illinois


4,762

13,557

18,319


Missouri



17,247

17,583


Nevada


16,804

103,891

120,695

4,197

New Jersey


6,404

24,252

30,656


New York


4,009

60,501

64,510

2,119

North Carolina


7,788

18,196

25,984

1,557

Ohio



7,419

8,029


Oklahoma



12,829

12,961


South Carolina



18,282

18,453


Tennessee


10,824

67,356

78,180

2,325

Texas


13,426

181,308

194,734

8,035

Construction in progress




14,688



139,090

1,145,682

1,299,460

51,195

Specialty Care Facilities:

Illinois


3,650

19,325

22,975

4,819

Indiana



8,232

8,402


Louisiana


1,928

10,483

12,411


Massachusetts


3,375

62,101

65,476

23,279

Ohio


3,020

27,445

30,465

3,590

Oklahoma


3,149

9,879

13,028


Texas


6,902

121,851

128,753

5,281

Wisconsin


4,700

20,669

25,369


Construction in progress




33,018



26,894

279,985

339,897

38,033

Total Real Property Owned


$

447,029

$

4,356,267

$

5,117,005

$

478,373



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

At December 31, 2007, future minimum lease payments
    receivable under operating leases are as follows (in thousands):


$

435,393


428,090


424,569


411,215


395,895

Thereafter

2,486,023

Totals

$

4,581,185

We purchased $0, $11,204,000 and $3,908,000 of real property
    that had previously been financed by the Company with loans in
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Additionally, $132,028,000,
    $24,330,000 and $29,238,000 of completed construction projects
    were placed in service and began earning rent during the years
    ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We
    acquired properties which included the assumption of mortgages
    totaling $166,188,000, $274,473,000 and $22,309,000 in 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively. Certain of our acquisitions
    included deferred acquisition payments totaling $0, $2,000,000
    and $18,125,000 for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These
    non-cash activities are appropriately not reflected in the
    accompanying statements of cash flows. See the accompanying
    statement of cash flows for non-cash investing activity related
    to the Windrose merger.

At December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we had $0, $14,796,000
    and $11,912,000, respectively, related to assets held for sale.
    See Note 16 for further discussion of discontinued
    operations.

6.

Concentration
    of Risk

As of December 31, 2007, long-term care facilities, which
    include skilled nursing, independent living/continuing care
    retirement communities and assisted living facilities, comprised
    68% (72% at December 31, 2006) of our real estate
    investments and were located in 38 states. The following
    table summarizes certain information about our customer
    concentration as of December 31, 2007 (dollars in
    thousands):

Number of

Total

Percent of

Properties

Investment

Investment(1)

Concentration by investment:

Emeritus Corporation


$

355,147


%

Signature Healthcare LLC


325,744


%

Brookdale Senior Living, Inc


258,990


%

Life Care Centers of America, Inc


255,168


%

Senior Living Communities, LLC


187,437


%

Remaining portfolio


3,637,540


%

Totals


$

5,020,026


%



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Number of

Total

Percent of

Properties

Revenue(2)

Revenue(3)

Concentration by revenue(4):

Emeritus Corporation


$

39,546


%

Brookdale Senior Living, Inc


37,791


%

Home Quality Management, Inc


24,512


%

Life Care Centers of America, Inc


23,854


%

Tara Cares, LLC


18,982


%

Remaining portfolio


338,435


%

Other income

n/a

10,035


%

Totals


$

493,155


%

7.

Borrowings
    Under Line of Credit Arrangement and Related Items

At December 31, 2007, we had an unsecured credit
    arrangement with a consortium of seventeen banks providing for a
    revolving line of credit in the amount of $1,150,000,000, which
    is scheduled to expire on August 5, 2011 (with the ability
    to extend for one year at our discretion if we are in compliance
    with all covenants). Borrowings under the agreement are subject
    to interest payable in periods no longer than three months at
    either the agent bank’s prime rate of interest or the
    applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (4.6%
    at December 31, 2007). The applicable margin is based on
    our ratings with Moody’s Investors Service and
    Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and was 0.6%
    at December 31, 2007. In addition, we pay a facility fee
    annually to each bank based on the bank’s commitment under
    the revolving credit facility. The facility fee depends on our
    ratings with Moody’s Investors Service and
    Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and was 0.15%
    at December 31, 2007. We also pay an annual agent’s
    fee of $50,000. Principal is due upon expiration of the
    agreement.

The following information relates to aggregate borrowings under
    the unsecured lines of credit arrangements (dollars in
    thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Balance outstanding at December 31

$

307,000

$

225,000

$

195,000

Maximum amount outstanding at any month end

$

434,000

$

276,000

$

318,000

Average amount outstanding (total of daily principal balances
    divided by days in year)

$

234,392

$

164,905

$

181,232

Weighted average interest rate (actual interest expense divided
    by average borrowings outstanding)

6.68

%

6.91

%

5.19

%

8.

Senior
    Unsecured Notes and Secured Debt

We have $1,890,192,000 of senior unsecured notes with annual
    interest rates ranging from 4.75% to 8.00%. The carrying amounts
    of the senior unsecured notes represent the par value of
    $1,887,330,000 adjusted for any unamortized premiums or
    discounts and other basis adjustments related to hedging the
    debt with derivative instruments. See Note 1 for further
    discussion regarding derivative instruments.

In July 2007, we issued $400,000,000 of 4.75% senior
    unsecured convertible notes due July 2027, generating net
    proceeds of $388,943,000. The notes will be convertible, in
    certain circumstances, into cash and, if applicable,



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

shares of our common stock at an initial conversion rate of
    20.0000 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which
    represents an initial conversion price of approximately $50.00
    per share. In general, upon conversion, the holder of each note
    would receive, in respect of the conversion value of such note,
    cash up to the principal amount of such note and common stock
    for the note’s conversion value in excess of such principal
    amount.

We have mortgage loans totaling $507,476,000, collateralized by
    owned properties, with annual interest rates ranging from 4.89%
    to 8.21%. The carrying amounts of the mortgages represent the
    par value of $506,973,000 adjusted for any unamortized fair
    value adjustments. The carrying values of the properties
    securing the mortgage loans totaled $969,543,000 at
    December 31, 2007.

In November 2007, we repurchased $50,000,000 in aggregate
    liquidation amount of preferred securities that had been issued
    by Windrose Capital Trust  I, a subsidiary trust, on
    March 24, 2006. In December 2007, we surrendered these
    securities for cancellation along with $1,000,000 liquidation
    amount of common securities of this trust, which resulted in the
    satisfaction and discharge in 2007 of $51,000,000 in aggregate
    principal amount of junior subordinated notes issued by an
    operating partnership due March 30, 2036. In connection
    with this transaction, we recorded a $1,081,000 gain on
    extinguishment of debt.

Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and
    events of default. Among other things, these provisions require
    us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth
    and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness,
    create liens and make investments or acquisitions.

At December 31, 2007, the annual principal payments on
    these debt obligations are as follows (in thousands):

Senior

Mortgage

Unsecured Notes

Loans

Totals


$

42,330

$

27,941

$

70,271



53,752

53,752



15,480

15,480



52,641

52,641


250,000

21,841

271,841

Thereafter

1,595,000

335,318

1,930,318

Totals

$

1,887,330

$

506,973

$

2,394,303

9.

Stock
    Incentive Plans

Our 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan authorizes up to
    2,200,000 shares of common stock to be issued at the
    discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of
    Directors. The 2005 Plan replaced the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan
    and the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors. The options
    granted to officers and key salaried employees under the 1995
    Plan continue to vest through 2016 and expire ten years from the
    date of grant. Our non-employee directors, officers and key
    salaried employees are eligible to participate in the 2005 Plan.
    The 2005 Plan allows for the issuance of, among other things,
    stock options, restricted stock, deferred stock units and
    dividend equivalent rights.

Vesting periods for options, deferred stock units and restricted
    shares generally range from three years for non-employee
    directors to five years for officers and key employees. Options
    expire ten years from the date of the grant. We granted 223,000,
    98,000 and 85,000 restricted shares during 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively, including 11,000, 13,000 and 16,000 shares to
    non-employee directors in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
    Expense, which is recognized as the shares vest based on the
    market value at the date of the award, totaled $7,050,000,
    $6,980,000 and $2,948,000, in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Option
    Award Activity

The following table summarizes information about stock option
    activity for the periods indicated (shares in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Number

Weighted Average

Number

Weighted Average

Number

Weighted Average

Stock Options

of Shares

Exercise Price

of Shares

Exercise Price

of Shares

Exercise Price

Options at beginning of year


$

30.79


$

26.87

1,015

$

24.86

Options granted


45.73


32.42


34.88

Options exercised

(402

)

27.82

(227

)

22.24

(380

)

22.84

Options terminated

(2

)

39.72

(1

)

36.50

(10

)

25.24

Options at end of year


$

35.54


$

30.79


$

26.87

Options exercisable at end of year


$

32.26


$

28.83


$

23.16

Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year

$

8.31

$

5.26

$

12.48

Option
    Valuation Assumptions

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of
    grant using a Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model with the
    following weighted-average assumptions:




Dividend yield(1)

5.6

%

6.79

%

6.88

%

Expected volatility

19.9

%

20.3

%

22.8

%

Risk-free interest rate

4.74

%

4.35

%

4.25

%

Expected life (in years)




Weighted-average fair value(1)

$

8.31

$

5.26

$

12.48

(1)

Certain options granted to
    employees include dividend equivalent rights. The fair value of
    options with DERs also includes the net present value of
    projected future dividend payments over the expected life of the
    option discounted at the dividend yield rate. In 2005,
    substantially all options granted included DERs, while in 2006,
    approximately 19.5% of options granted included DERs, and in
    2007, approximately 25.2% of options granted included DERs.

The following table summarizes information about stock options
    outstanding at December 31, 2007 (options in thousands):

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Weighted

Range of Per

Weighted

Average

Weighted

Share Exercise

Number

Average

Remaining

Number

Average

Prices

Outstanding

Exercise Price

Contract Life

Exercisable

Exercise Price

$16-$20


$

16.81

3.0


$

16.81

$20-$30


25.77

5.7


25.72

$30-$40


35.85

8.2


35.34

$40 +


45.73

10.0


n/a

Totals


$

35.54

8.0


$

32.26



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The aggregate intrinsic value is calculated as the difference
    between the exercise price of the underlying options and the
    quoted price of our common stock for the options that were
    in-the-money at December 31, 2007. During the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the aggregate intrinsic
    value of options exercised under our stock incentive plans was
    $6,600,000, $3,140,000 and $4,705,000, respectively, determined
    as of the date of option exercise. Cash received from option
    exercises under our stock incentive plans for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $17,775,000,
    $4,872,000 and $8,690,000.

As of December 31, 2007, there was approximately $2,524,000
    of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested
    stock options granted under our stock incentive plans. That cost
    is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of
    three years. As of December 31, 2007, there was
    approximately $11,146,000 of total unrecognized compensation
    cost related to unvested restricted stock granted under our
    stock incentive plans. That cost is expected to be recognized
    over a weighted average period of three years.

The following table summarizes information about non-vested
    stock incentive awards as of December 31, 2007 and changes
    for the year ended December 31, 2007:

Stock Options

Restricted Stock

Number of

Weighted Average

Number of

Weighted Average

Shares

Grant Date

Shares

Grant Date

(000’s)

Fair Value

(000’s)

Fair Value

Non-vested at December 31, 2006


$

5.35


$

34.07

Vested

(218

)

3.78

(120

)

35.21

Granted


8.31


44.66

Terminated

(2

)

7.63

(2

)

28.84

Non-vested at December 31, 2007


$

7.20


$

40.99

We adopted the fair value-based method of accounting for
    share-based payments effective January 1, 2003 using the
    prospective method described in Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation — Transition and Disclosure. Currently,
    we use the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to estimate
    the value of stock option grants and expect to continue to use
    this acceptable option valuation model. Because we adopted
    Statement No. 123 using the prospective transition method
    (which applied only to awards granted, modified or settled after
    the adoption date of Statement No. 123), compensation cost
    for some previously granted awards that were not recognized
    under Statement No. 123 will now be recognized effective
    with the adoption of Statement No. 123(R) on
    January 1, 2006. In addition, we previously amortized
    compensation cost for share-based payments to the date that the
    awards became fully vested or to the expected retirement date,
    if sooner. Effective with the adoption of Statement
    No. 123(R), we began recognizing compensation cost to the
    date the awards become fully vested or to the retirement
    eligible date, if sooner. Compensation cost totaled $7,050,000
    and $6,980,000 for the years ended December 31, 2007 and
    2006, respectively.



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table illustrates the effect on net income
    available to common stockholders for the year ended
    December 31, 2005 if we had applied the fair value
    recognition provisions of Statement 123 to stock-based
    compensation for options granted since 1995 but prior to
    adoption at January 1, 2003 (in thousands, except per share
    data):

Numerator:

Net income available to common stockholders — as
    reported

$

62,692

Deduct: Additional stock-based employee compensation expense
    determined under fair value based method for all awards


Net income available to common stockholders — pro forma

$

62,511

Denominator:

Basic weighted average shares — as reported and pro
    forma

54,110

Effect of dilutive securities:

Employee stock options — pro forma


Non-vested restricted shares


Dilutive potential common shares


Diluted weighted average shares — pro forma

54,318

Net income available to common stockholders per
    share — as reported

Basic

$

1.16

Diluted

$

1.15

Net income available to common stockholders per
    share — pro forma

Basic

$

1.16

Diluted

$

1.15

10.

Other
    Equity

Other equity consists of the following (in thousands):

December 31,




Accumulated compensation expense related to stock options

$

2,701

$

1,845

$


Unamortized restricted stock



(521

)

Totals

$

2,701

$

1,845

$


Other equity consists of accumulated option compensation expense
    which represents the amount of amortized compensation costs
    related to stock options awarded to employees and directors
    subsequent to January 1, 2003. Expense, which is recognized
    as the options vest based on the market value at the date of the
    award, totaled $1,106,000, $1,066,000 and $312,000 for the years
    ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Unamortized restricted stock represented the unamortized value
    of restricted stock granted to employees and non-employee
    directors prior to January 1, 2003. Expense related to
    these grants, which is recognized as the shares vest based on
    the market value at the date of the award, totaled $521,000 and
    $728,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

11.

Preferred
    Stock

In July 2003, we closed a public offering of
    4,000,000 shares of 7.875% Series D Cumulative
    Redeemable Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation
    value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in
    arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may
    be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share,
    plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the
    redemption date, on or after July 9, 2008.

In September 2003, we issued 1,060,000 shares of 6%
    Series E Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred
    Stock as partial consideration for an acquisition of assets by
    the Company, with the shares valued at $26,500,000 for such
    purposes. The shares were issued to Southern Assisted Living,
    Inc. and certain of its stockholders without registration in
    reliance upon the federal statutory exemption of
    Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The
    shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per share. Dividends
    are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which has
    no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price
    of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such
    shares to the redemption date, on or after August 15, 2008.
    The preferred shares are convertible into common stock at a
    conversion price of $32.66 per share at any time. During the
    year ended December 31, 2005, certain holders of our
    Series E Preferred Stock converted 275,056 shares into
    210,541 shares of our common stock, leaving 74,989 of such
    shares outstanding at December 31, 2007 and 2006.

In September 2004, we closed a public offering of
    7,000,000 shares of 7.625% Series F Cumulative
    Redeemable Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation
    value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in
    arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may
    be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share,
    plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the
    redemption date, on or after September 14, 2009.

In conjunction with the acquisition of Windrose Medical
    Properties Trust in December 2006, we issued
    2,100,000 shares of 7.5% Series G Cumulative
    Convertible Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation
    value of $25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in
    arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may
    be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share,
    plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the
    redemption date, on or after June 30, 2010. Each
    Series G Preferred Share is convertible by the holder into
    our common stock at a conversion price of $34.93, equivalent to
    a conversion rate of 0.7157 common shares per Series G
    Preferred Share. The Series G Preferred Shares require
    cumulative distributions. During the year ended
    December 31, 2007, certain holders of our Series G
    Preferred Stock converted 295,800 shares into
    211,702 shares of our common stock, leaving 1,804,200 of
    such shares outstanding at December 31, 2007.

12.

Income
    Taxes and Distributions

To qualify as a real estate investment trust for federal income
    tax purposes, 90% of taxable income (including 100% of capital
    gains) must be distributed to stockholders. Real estate
    investment trusts that do not distribute a certain amount of
    current year taxable income in the current year are also subject
    to a 4% federal excise tax. The main differences between
    undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes and
    financial statement purposes are the recognition of
    straight-line rent for reporting purposes, differing useful
    lives and depreciation and amortization methods for real
    property and the provision for loan losses for reporting
    purposes versus bad debt expense for tax purposes.

Cash distributions paid to common stockholders, for federal
    income tax purposes, are as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Per Share:

Ordinary income

$

1.8295

$

1.7461

$

1.266

Return of capital

0.3596

1.1348

1.194

1250 gains

0.0900

0.0000

0.000

Totals

$

2.2791

$

2.8809

$

2.460



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

13.

Commitments
    and Contingencies

We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit
    of certain insurance companies that provide workers’
    compensation insurance to one of our tenants. Our obligation to
    provide the letter of credit terminates in 2009. At
    December 31, 2007, our obligation under the letter of
    credit was $2,350,000.

We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit
    of certain insurance companies that provide liability and
    property insurance to one of our tenants. Our obligation to
    provide the letter of credit terminates in 2013. At
    December 31, 2007, our obligation under the letter of
    credit was $1,000,000.

We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit
    of a village in Illinois that secures the completion and
    installation of certain public improvements by one of our
    tenants in connection with the development of a facility. Our
    obligation to provide the letter of credit terminates in 2010.
    At December 31, 2007, our obligation under the letter of
    credit was $679,320.

We have an outstanding letter of credit issued for the benefit
    of a municipality in Pennsylvania in connection with the
    completion and installation of certain facility improvements by
    one of our subsidiaries. The improvements are expected to be
    completed in 2009. At December 31, 2007, our obligation
    under the letter of credit was $485,810.

At December 31, 2007, we had outstanding construction
    financings of $313,709,000 for leased properties and were
    committed to providing additional financing of approximately
    $800,697,000 to complete construction. At December 31,
    2007, we had contingent purchase obligations totaling
    $25,621,000. These contingent purchase obligations primarily
    relate to deferred acquisition fundings and capital
    improvements. Deferred acquisition fundings are contingent upon
    an operator satisfying certain conditions such as payment
    coverage and value tests. Amounts due from the tenant are
    increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.

At December 31, 2007, we had operating lease obligations of
    $54,993,000 relating to certain ground leases and Company office
    space. We incurred rental expense relating to our Company office
    space of $678,000, $939,000 and $283,000 for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Regarding
    the property leases, we have sublease agreements with certain of
    our operators that require the operators to reimburse us for our
    monthly operating lease obligations. At December 31, 2007,
    aggregate future minimum rentals to be received under these
    noncancelable subleases totaled $12,756,000.

At December 31, 2007, future minimum lease payments due
    under operating leases are as follows (in thousands):


$

3,148


3,031


2,865


2,681


2,742

Thereafter

40,526

Totals

$

54,993



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

14.

Earnings
    Per Share

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and
    diluted earnings per share (in thousands, except per share data):

Year Ended December 31,




Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per share —
    net income available to common stockholders

$

116,272

$

81,287

$

62,692

Denominator for basic earnings per share — weighted
    average shares

78,861

61,661

54,110

Effect of dilutive securities:

Employee stock options




Non-vested restricted shares




Potentially dilutive common shares




Denominator for diluted earnings per share — adjusted
    weighted average shares

79,409

62,045

54,499

Basic earnings per share

$

1.47

$

1.32

$

1.16

Diluted earnings per share

$

1.46

$

1.31

$

1.15

The diluted earnings per share calculation excludes the dilutive
    effect of 123,000, 0 and 112,000 options for 2007, 2006 and
    2005, respectively, because the exercise price was greater than
    the average market price. The Series E Cumulative
    Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock was not included in
    the calculations for 2007, 2006 and 2005 as the effect of the
    conversions was anti-dilutive. The $345,000,000 Convertible
    Senior Notes due December 2026 and the Series G Cumulative
    Convertible Preferred Stock were not included in the calculation
    for 2007 and 2006 as the effect of the conversion was
    anti-dilutive. The $400,000,000 Convertible Senior Notes due
    July 2027 were not included in the calculation for 2007 as the
    effect of the conversion was anti-dilutive.

15.

Disclosure
    about Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the
    fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it
    is practicable to estimate that value.

Mortgage Loans and Other Real Estate Loan
    Receivable

— The fair value of mortgage loans and
    other real estate loans receivable is generally estimated by
    discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current
    rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with
    similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

— The carrying amount
    approximates fair value.

Equity Investments

— Equity investments are
    recorded at their fair market value.

Borrowings Under Unsecured Lines of Credit
    Arrangements

— The carrying amount of the
    unsecured line of credit arrangement approximates fair value
    because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable.

Senior Unsecured Notes

— The fair value of the
    senior unsecured notes payable was estimated based on publicly
    available trading prices.

Secured Debt

— The fair value of all secured
    debt is estimated by discounting the estimated future cash flows
    using the current rates at which similar loans would be made to
    borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining
    maturities.



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Interest Rate Swap Agreements

— Our interest
    rate swap agreements are recorded as assets or liabilities on
    the balance sheet at fair market value. Fair market value is
    estimated by a third party consultant, which utilizes pricing
    models that consider forward yield curves and discount rates.

The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial
    instruments are as follows (in thousands):

December 31, 2007

December 31, 2006

Carrying

Fair

Carrying

Fair

Amount

Value

Amount

Value

Financial Assets:

Mortgage loans receivable

$

143,091

$

149,144

$

177,615

$

180,537

Other real estate loans receivable

238,303

239,951

16,833

16,833

Equity investments(1)

1,408

1,408

4,700

4,700

Cash and cash equivalents

30,269

30,269

36,216

36,216

Interest rate swap agreements

(7,990

)

(7,990

)



Financial Liabilities:

Borrowings under unsecured lines of credit arrangements

$

307,000

$

307,000

$

225,000

$

225,000

Senior unsecured notes(2)

1,890,192

1,902,031

1,541,814

1,575,532

Secured debt

507,476

515,989

378,972

378,972

Trust preferred liability

n/a

n/a

52,215

52,215

(1)

Equity investments at
    December 31, 2006 were accounted for under the cost method
    which was a reasonable approximation of fair value. See
    Note 1 for additional information.

(2)

The Company previously used a
    discounted cash flow model to estimate the fair value of senior
    unsecured notes and reported a fair value estimate of
    $1,895,672,000 in its

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2006.

16.

Discontinued
    Operations

During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we
    sold properties with carrying values of $83,877,000, $75,789,000
    and $88,098,000 for net gains of $14,437,000, $1,267,000 and
    $3,227,000, respectively. In accordance with Statement
    No. 144, we have reclassified the income and expenses
    attributable to these properties to discontinued operations.
    Expenses include an allocation of interest expense based on
    property carrying values and our weighted average cost of debt.
    The following illustrates the reclassification impact of
    Statement No. 144 as a result of classifying the properties
    as discontinued operations (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Rental Income

$

7,133

$

14,939

$

26,533

Expenses:

Interest expense

1,622

4,398

7,747

Depreciation and amortization

3,733

9,131

13,872

General and adminstrative


1,120

1,086

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

$

1,778

$


$

3,828

17.

Retirement
    Arrangements

Under the retirement plan and trust (the “401(k)
    Plan”), eligible employees may make contributions, and we
    may make matching contributions and a profit sharing
    contribution. Our contributions to the 401(k) Plan totaled
    $441,000, $413,000 and $337,000 in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

We have a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
    (“SERP”), a non-qualified defined benefit pension
    plan, which provides certain executive officers with
    supplemental deferred retirement benefits. The SERP provides an
    opportunity for participants to receive retirement benefits that
    cannot be paid under our tax-qualified plans because of the
    restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of
    1986, as amended. Benefits are based on compensation and length
    of service and the SERP is unfunded. No contributions by the
    Company are anticipated for the 2008 fiscal year. Benefit
    payments are expected to total $3,290,000 during the next five
    fiscal years and no benefit payments are expected to occur
    during the succeeding five fiscal years. We use a December 31
    measurement date for the SERP. The accrued liability on our
    balance sheet for the SERP was $1,915,000 at December 31,
    2007 ($1,597,000 at December 31, 2006).

The following tables provide a reconciliation of the changes in
    the SERP’s benefit obligations and a statement of the
    funded status for the periods indicated (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,



Reconciliation of benefit obligation:

Obligation at January 1

$

1,597

$

1,255

Service cost



Interest cost



Actuarial (gain)/loss

(140

)

(82

)

Obligation at December 31

$

1,915

$

1,597

December 31,



Funded status:

Funded status at December 31

$

(1,915

)

$

(1,597

)

Unrecognized (gain)/loss



Prepaid/(accrued) benefit cost

$

(1,915

)

$

(1,597

)

The accrued benefit cost increased $135,000 during 2006 as a
    result of adopting SFAS 158. See Note 1 for additional
    information.

The following table shows the components of net periodic benefit
    costs for the periods indicated (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,



Service cost

$


$


Interest cost



Net actuarial loss



Net periodic benefit cost

$


$




HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table provides information for the SERP, which has
    an accumulated benefit in excess of plan assets (in thousands):

December 31,



Projected benefit obligation

$

1,915

$

1,597

Accumulated benefit obligation

1,420

1,121

Fair value of assets

n/a

n/a

The following table reflects the weighted-average assumptions
    used to determine the benefit obligations and net periodic
    benefit cost for the SERP:

Benefit

Net Periodic Benefit Cost

Obligations

Year Ended

December 31,

December 31,





Discount rate

6.00

%

6.00

%

6.00

%

5.75

%

Rate of compensation increase

4.25

%

4.25

%

4.25

%

4.00

%

Expected long-term return on plan assets

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

18.

Segment
    Reporting

We invest across the full spectrum of senior housing and health
    care real estate. We evaluate our business and make resource
    allocations on our two business segments — investment
    properties and operating properties. Under the investment
    property segment, we invest in senior housing and health care
    real estate through acquisition and financing of primarily
    single tenant properties. Properties acquired are primarily
    leased under

triple-net

leases and we are not involved in the management of the
    property. Our primary investment property types include skilled
    nursing facilities, assisted living facilities, independent
    living/continuing care retirement communities and specialty care
    facilities. Under the operating property segment, we primarily
    invest in medical office buildings that are typically leased
    under gross leases, modified gross leases or

triple-net

leases, to multiple tenants, and generally require a certain
    level of property management. The accounting policies of the
    segments are the same as those described in the summary of
    significant accounting policies (see Note 1). There are no
    intersegment sales or transfers. We evaluate performance based
    upon net operating income of the combined properties in each
    segment.

Non-segment revenue consists mainly of revenues from our
    Development Services Group (“DSG”), interest income on
    non-real estate investments and other income. Non-segment assets
    consist of DSG and corporate assets including cash, accounts
    receivable and deferred financing costs among others.
    Non-property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to
    individual segments in determining net operating income.

Summary information for the reportable segments during the years
    ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 is as follows (in
    thousands):

Property

Net

Real Estate

Rental

Interest

Other

Total

Operating

Operating

Depreciation/

Interest

Total

Income(1)

Income

Income

Revenues

Expenses

Income(2)

Amortization

Expense

Assets

Year ended December 31, 2007:

Investment Properties

$

338,010

$

25,823

$

2,413

$

366,246

$


$

366,246

$

100,632

$

8,763

$

3,704,689

Operating Properties

119,287



119,784

37,475

82,309

48,994

22,884

1,307,931

Non-segment/Corporate



7,125

7,125


7,125


104,655

201,236

$

457,297

$

25,823

$

10,035

$

493,155

$

37,475

$

455,680

$

149,626

$

136,302

$

5,213,856



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Property

Net

Real Estate

Rental

Interest

Other

Total

Operating

Operating

Depreciation/

Interest

Total

Income(1)

Income

Income

Revenues

Expenses

Income(2)

Amortization

Expense

Assets

Year ended December 31, 2006:

Investment Properties

$

302,161

$

18,829

$


$

321,341

$


$

321,341

$

96,351

$

9,041

$

3,148,595

Operating Properties

3,474



3,474

1,115

2,359

1,213


974,298

Non-segment/Corporate



3,573

3,573


3,573


87,193

157,717

$

305,635

$

18,829

$

3,924

$

328,388

$

1,115

$

327,273

$

97,564

$

96,834

$

4,280,610

(1)

Includes amounts from discontinued
    operations.

(2)

Net operating income
    (“NOI”) is used to evaluate the operating performance
    of our properties. We define NOI as total revenues, including
    tenant reimbursements, less property level operating expenses,
    which exclude depreciation and amortization, general and
    administrative expenses, impairments, interest expense and
    discontinued operations. We believe NOI provides investors
    relevant and useful information because it measures the
    operating performance of our properties at the property level on
    an unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about
    resource allocations and to assess the property level
    performance of our properties.

All assets, revenues and expenses for the year ended
    December 31, 2005 were attributable to our investment
    property segment.

19.

Quarterly
    Results of Operations (Unaudited)

The following is a summary of our unaudited quarterly results of
    operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006
    (in thousands, except per share data):

Year Ended December 31, 2007

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter(2)

Revenues — as reported

$

112,645

$

119,252

$

125,076

$

133,532

Discontinued operations

(2,286

)

(1,522

)

(675

)


Revenues — as adjusted(1)

$

110,359

$

117,730

$

124,401

$

133,532

Net income available to common stockholders

$

23,356

$

25,620

$

24,529

$

42,768

Net income available to common stockholders per share:

Basic

$

0.32

$

0.32

$

0.30

$

0.52

Diluted

0.32

0.32

0.30

0.52

Year Ended December 31, 2006

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter(3)

Revenues — as reported

$

77,413

$

80,176

$

80,745

$

87,787

Discontinued operations

(3,730

)

(3,840

)

(2,682

)

(2,420

)

Revenues — as adjusted(1)

$

73,683

$

76,336

$

78,063

$

85,367

Net income available to common stockholders

$

19,645

$

22,668

$

21,480

$

17,494

Net income available to common stockholders per share:

Basic

$

0.34

$

0.37

$

0.34

$

0.27

Diluted

0.34

0.37

0.34

0.27

(1)

In accordance with FASB Statement
    No. 144, we have reclassified the income attributable to
    the properties sold subsequent to January 1, 2002 and
    attributable to the properties held for sale at
    December 31, 2007 to discontinued operations. See
    Note 16.



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(2)

The increase in net income and
    amounts per share are primarily attributable to gains on sales
    of real property ($11,662,000), additional other income related
    to the payoff of a warrant equity investment ($3,900,000) and
    gains on extinguishment of debt ($1,081,000).

(3)

The decrease in net income and
    amounts per share are primarily attributable to costs associated
    with the Windrose merger ($5,213,000) and the write-off of a
    straight-line rent receivable ($5,143,000), offset by the
    favorable impact of prior period adjustments resulting from
    reassessment of straight-line rent revenue recognition policies
    ($3,266,000).



Item 9.

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

Item 9A.

Controls
    and Procedures

Disclosure
    Controls and Procedures

An evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the
    participation of our management, including our Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the
    disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in

Rule 13a-15(e)

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the
    end of the period covered by this report. Based on that
    evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures
    were effective as of the end of the period covered by this
    report.

Management’s
    Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined
    in

Rule 13a-15(f)

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). The
    Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The
    Company’s internal control over financial reporting
    includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
    the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
    accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
    of the assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable
    assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
    preparation of financial statements in accordance with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that
    receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in
    accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
    the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
    prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use,
    or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a
    material effect on the financial statements. Because of its
    inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
    may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of
    any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
    the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes
    in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
    policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2007 based on the criteria established by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    in a report entitled Internal Control — Integrated
    Framework. Based on this assessment, using the criteria above,
    management concluded that the Company’s system of internal
    control over financial reporting was effective as of
    December 31, 2007.

The independent registered public accounting firm of
    Ernst & Young LLP, as auditors of the Company’s
    consolidated financial statements, has issued an attestation
    report on the Company’s internal control over financial
    reporting.

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

No change in our internal control over financial reporting (as
    defined in

Rule 13a-15(f)

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) occurred
    during the fourth quarter of the one-year period covered by this
    report that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
    materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.



Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal
    Control over Financial Reporting

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Health Care REIT, Inc.

We have audited Health Care REIT, Inc.’s internal control
    over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on
    criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated
    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
    the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Health Care REIT
    Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective
    internal control over financial reporting, and for its
    assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting included in the accompanying Management
    Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s
    internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Health Care REIT, Inc. maintained, in all
    material respects, effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on the COSO
    criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Health Care REIT, Inc. as of
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated
    statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2007 of Health Care REIT, Inc. and our report
    dated February 27, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion
    thereon.

/s/

Ernst &
    Young LLP

Toledo, Ohio

February 27, 2008



Item 9B.

Other
    Information

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
    reference to the information under the headings “Election
    of Directors,” “Executive Officers,” “Board
    and Committees,” “Communications with the Board”
    and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and
    Certain Beneficial Owners — Section 16(a)
    Compliance” in our definitive proxy statement, which will
    be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“Commission”) prior to April 30, 2008.

We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics
    that applies to our directors, officers and employees. The code
    is posted on the Internet at www.hcreit.com and is available
    from the Company upon written request to the Senior Vice
    President — Administration and Corporate Secretary,
    Health Care REIT, Inc., One SeaGate, Suite 1500,
    P.O. Box 1475, Toledo, Ohio

43603-1475.

Any amendment to, or waivers from, the code that relate to any
    officer or director of the Company will be promptly disclosed on
    the Internet at www.hcreit.com.

In addition, the Board has adopted charters for the Audit,
    Compensation and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees.
    These charters are posted on the Internet at www.hcreit.com and
    are available from the Company upon written request to the
    Senior Vice President — Administration and Corporate
    Secretary, Health Care REIT, Inc., One SeaGate, Suite 1500,
    P.O. Box 1475, Toledo, Ohio

43603-1475.

Item 11.

Executive
    Compensation

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
    reference to the information under the headings “Executive
    Compensation,” “Compensation Committee Report”
    and “Director Compensation” in our definitive proxy
    statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to
    April 30, 2008.

Item 12.

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
    reference to the information under the headings “Security
    Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain Beneficial
    Owners” and “Equity Compensation Plan
    Information” in our definitive proxy statement, which will
    be filed with the Commission prior to April 30, 2008.

Item 13.

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions and Director
    Independence

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
    reference to the information under the headings “Board and
    Committees — Independence and Meetings” and
    “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in
    our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the
    Commission prior to April 30, 2008.

Item 14.

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
    reference to the information under the heading
    “Ratification of the Appointment of the Independent
    Registered Public Accounting Firm” and “Pre-Approval
    Policies and Procedures” in our definitive proxy statement,
    which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 30,
    2008.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules

(a) 1.

Our Consolidated Financial Statements are
    included in Part II, Item 8:

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm


Consolidated Balance Sheets —
    December 31, 2007 and 2006


Consolidated Statements of Income —
    Years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
    Equity — Years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows —
    Years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


2.

The following Financial Statement Schedules are
    included in Item 15(c):

III —  Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

IV —  Mortgage Loans on Real Estate

All other schedules for which provision is made in the
    applicable accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange
    Commission are not required under the related instructions or
    are inapplicable and therefore have been omitted.

3. Exhibit Index:


.1

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 12,
    2006, by and among Health Care REIT, Inc., Heat Merger Sub, LLC,
    Heat OP Merger Sub, L.P., Windrose Medical Properties Trust and
    Windrose Medical Properties, L.P. (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed September 15, 2006, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.2

Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as
    of October 12, 2006, by and among Health Care REIT, Inc.,
    Heat Merger Sub, LLC, Heat OP Merger Sub, L.P., Windrose Medical
    Properties Trust and Windrose Medical Properties, L.P. (filed
    with the Commission as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed October 13, 2006, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.1

Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the
    Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 20, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.2

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Junior
    Participating Preferred Stock, Series A, of the Company
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the
    Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 20, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.3

Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 20, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.4

Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed June 13, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.5

Certificate of Designation of


/


%
    Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of the
    Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 2.5 to the
    Company’s

Form 8-A/A

filed July 8, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.6

Certificate of Designation of 6% Series E Cumulative
    Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Company (filed
    with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed October 1, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.7

Certificate of Designation of


/


%
    Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of the
    Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 2.5 to the
    Company’s

Form 8-A

filed September 10, 2004, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).




.8

Certificate of Designation of 7.5% Series G Cumulative
    Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed December 20, 2006, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.9

Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 3.9 to the Company’s

Form 10-Q

filed August 9, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.10

Second Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company (filed with
    the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed October 29, 2007, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.1

The Company, by signing this Report, agrees to furnish the
    Securities and Exchange Commission upon its request a copy of
    any instrument that defines the rights of holders of long-term
    debt of the Company and authorizes a total amount of securities
    not in excess of 10% of the total assets of the Company.


.2

Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997 between the Company
    and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed April 21, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.3

First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 17, 1997,
    to Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the
    Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed April 21, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.4

Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 13, 1998,
    to Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the
    Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed March 11, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.5

Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 18, 1999,
    to Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the
    Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed March 17, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.6

Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 10, 2001,
    to Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the
    Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed August 9, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.7

Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated September 10,
    2003, to Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the
    Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed September 24, 2003, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.8

Amendment No. 1, dated September 16, 2003, to
    Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated September 10,
    2003, to Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the
    Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed September 24, 2003, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.9

Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of
    September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Company’s

Form 8-K

filed September 9, 2002, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.10

Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of September 6,
    2002, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of
    September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the
    Company’s

Form 8-K

filed September 9, 2002, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.11

Amendment No. 1, dated March 12, 2003, to Supplemental
    Indenture No. 1, dated as of September 6, 2002, to
    Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of
    September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Company’s

Form 8-K

filed March 14, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.12

Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of
    September 10, 2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt
    Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the
    Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed September 24, 2003, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.13

Amendment No. 1, dated September 16, 2003, to
    Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of
    September 10, 2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt
    Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the
    Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 4.4 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed September 24, 2003, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).




.14

Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of October 29,
    2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of
    September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Company’s

Form 8-K

filed October 30, 2003, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.15

Amendment No. 1, dated September 13, 2004, to
    Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of October 29,
    2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of
    September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New
    York Trust Company, N.A., as successor to Fifth Third Bank
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Company’s

Form 8-K

filed September 13, 2004, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.16

Supplemental Indenture No. 4, dated as of April 27,
    2005, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of
    September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New
    York Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed April 28, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.17

Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated as of November 30,
    2005, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of
    September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New
    York Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed November 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.18

Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006, between the
    Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (filed
    with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed November 20, 2006, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.19

Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of November 20,
    2006, between the Company and The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed November 20, 2006, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.20

Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of July 20,
    2007, between Health Care REIT, Inc. and The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the SEC as Exhibit 4.1
    to Health Care REIT, Inc.’s

Form 8-K

filed July 20, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.21

Form of Indenture for Senior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed
    with the Commission as Exhibit 4.9 to the Company’s

Form S-3

(File

No. 333-73936)

filed November 21, 2001, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.22

Form of Indenture for Junior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed
    with the Commission as Exhibit 4.10 to the Company’s

Form S-3

(File

No. 333-73936)

filed November 21, 2001, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.1

Fourth Amended and Restated Loan Agreement, dated as of
    August 6, 2007, by and among Health Care REIT, Inc. and
    certain of its subsidiaries, the banks signatory thereto,
    KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent, Deutsche
    Bank Securities Inc., as syndication agent, and UBS Securities
    LLC, Bank of America, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Barclays
    Bank PLC, Calyon New York Branch and Fifth Third Bank, as
    documentation agents (filed with the SEC as Exhibit 10.2 to
    Health Care REIT, Inc.’s

Form 10-Q

filed August 9, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.2

Health Care REIT, Inc. Interest Rate & Currency Risk
    Management Policy adopted on May 6, 2004 (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s

Form 10-Q

filed July 23, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.3

The 1995 Stock Incentive Plan of Health Care REIT, Inc. (filed
    with the Commission as Appendix II to the Company’s
    Proxy Statement for the 1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders,
    filed September 29, 1995, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).*


.4

First Amendment to the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan of Health Care
    REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the
    Company’s

Form S-8

(File

No. 333-40771)

filed November 21, 1997, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).*


.5

Second Amendment to the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan of Health Care
    REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the
    Company’s

Form S-8

(File

No. 333-73916)

filed November 21, 2001, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).*


.6

Third Amendment to the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan of Health Care
    REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.15 to
    the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 12, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*




.7

Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Health Care REIT, Inc.
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s

Form 10-Q

filed May 10, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.8

First Amendment to the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of
    Health Care REIT, Inc. effective April 21, 1998 (filed with
    the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s

Form 10-Q

filed May 10, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.9

Health Care REIT, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with
    the Commission as Appendix A to the Company’s Proxy
    Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed
    March 28, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.10

Form of Stock Option Agreement for Executive Officers under the
    1995 Stock Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.17 to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 16, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.11

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for Executive Officers under
    the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.18 to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 16, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.12

Form of Stock Option Agreement under the Stock Plan for
    Non-Employee Directors (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s

Form 10-Q/A

filed October 27, 2004, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).*


.13

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement under the Stock Plan for
    Non-Employee Directors (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.20 to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 16, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.14

Form of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights)
    for the Chief Executive Officer under the 2005 Long-Term
    Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.18
    to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 10, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.15

Form of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights)
    for Executive Officers under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.19 to the
    Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 10, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.16

Form of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent
    Rights) for the Chief Executive Officer under the 2005 Long-Term
    Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.20
    to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 10, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.17

Form of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent
    Rights) for Executive Officers under the 2005 Long-Term
    Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.21
    to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 10, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.18

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for the Chief Executive
    Officer under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 10.22 to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 10, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.19

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for Executive Officers under
    the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.23 to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 10, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.20

Form of Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee
    Directors under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with
    the Commission as Exhibit 10.24 to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 10, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.21

Restricted Stock Agreement, dated January 22, 2007, by and
    between Health Care REIT and Raymond W. Braun (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed January 25, 2007, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).*


.22

Stock Option Agreement, dated December 20, 2006, between
    Health Care REIT, Inc. and Daniel R. Loftus (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s

Form 10-Q

filed May 10, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.23

Third Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated
    January 22, 2007, by and between the Company and George L.
    Chapman (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s

Form 8-K

filed January 25, 2007, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).*




.24

Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective
    January 1, 2004, by and between Health Care REIT, Inc. and
    Raymond W. Braun (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.18 to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 12, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.25

Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective
    January 1, 2004, by and between Health Care REIT, Inc. and
    Erin C. Ibele (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.19
    to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 12, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.26

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective
    January 1, 2004, by and between Health Care REIT, Inc. and
    Charles J. Herman, Jr. (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.20 to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 12, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.27

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective
    March 17, 2006, by and between Health Care REIT, Inc. and
    Scott A. Estes (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1
    to the Company’s

Form 10-Q

filed May 10, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.28

Employment Agreement, effective July 1, 2004, by and
    between Health Care REIT, Inc. and Jeffrey H. Miller (filed with
    the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s

Form 10-Q

filed July 23, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.29

Consulting Agreement dated as of September 12, 2006 between
    the Company and Fred S. Klipsch (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s

Form S-4

filed October 13, 2006, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).*


.30

Consulting Agreement dated as of September 12, 2006 between
    the Company and Frederick L. Farrar (filed with the Commission
    as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s

Form S-4

filed October 13, 2006, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).*


.31

Employment Agreement dated as of September 12, 2006 between
    the Company and Daniel R. Loftus (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s

Form S-4

filed October 13, 2006, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).*


.32

Health Care REIT, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
    effective as of January 1, 2001 (filed with the Commission
    as Exhibit 10.19 to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 10, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.33

Health Care REIT, Inc. Executive Loan Program, effective as of
    August 1999 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.20 to
    the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 10, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.34

Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each
    director, executive officer and officer of the Company (filed
    with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s

Form 8-K

filed February 18, 2005, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).*


.35

Summary of Director Compensation.*


Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (filed with the Commission
    as Exhibit 14 to the Company’s

Form 10-K

filed March 12, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


Subsidiaries of the Company.


Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered
    public accounting firm.


.1

Power of Attorney executed by William C. Ballard, Jr. (Director).


.2

Power of Attorney executed by Pier C. Borra (Director).


.3

Power of Attorney executed by Raymond W. Braun (President and
    Director).


.4

Power of Attorney executed by Thomas J. DeRosa (Director).


.5

Power of Attorney executed by Jeffrey H. Donahue (Director).


.6

Power of Attorney executed by Peter J. Grua (Director).


.7

Power of Attorney executed by Fred S. Klipsch (Director).


.8

Power of Attorney executed by Sharon M. Oster (Director).


.9

Power of Attorney executed by Jeffrey R. Otten (Director).


.10

Power of Attorney executed by R. Scott Trumbull (Director).


.11

Power of Attorney executed by George L. Chapman (Director,
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and Principal
    Executive Officer).




.12

Power of Attorney executed by Scott A. Estes (Senior Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer and Principal Financial
    Officer).


.13

Power of Attorney executed by Paul D. Nungester, Jr. (Vice
    President and Controller and Principal Accounting Officer).


.1

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)

Certification of Chief Executive Officer.


.2

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)

Certification of Chief Financial Officer.


.1

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by
    Chief Executive Officer.


.2

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by
    Chief Financial Officer.

*

Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.

(b)

Exhibits:

The exhibits listed in Item 15(a)(3) above are either filed
    with this Form

10-K

or
    incorporated by reference in accordance with

Rule 12b-32

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

(c)

Financial Statement Schedules:

Financial statement schedules are included on pages 104 through
    116.



Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned
    thereunto duly authorized.

HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

By:

/s/

George
    L. Chapman

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below on February 27,
    2008, by the following person on behalf of the Company and in
    the capacities indicated.

/s/

William
    C. Ballard, Jr.*

/s/

Sharon
    M. Oster*

William C. Ballard, Jr., Director

Sharon M. Oster, Director

/s/

Pier
    C. Borra*

/s/

Jeffrey
    R. Otten*

Pier C. Borra, Director

Jeffrey R. Otten, Director

/s/

Raymond
    W. Braun*

/s/

R.
    Scott Trumbull*

Raymond W. Braun, President and Director

R. Scott Trumbull, Director

/s/

Thomas
    J. Derosa*

/s/

George
    L. Chapman

Thomas J. DeRosa, Director

George L. Chapman, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and
    Director (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/

Jeffrey
    H. Donahue*

/s/

Scott
    A. Estes*

Jeffrey H. Donahue, Director

Scott A. Estes, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

/s/

Peter
    J. Grua*

/s/

Paul
    D. Nungester, Jr.*

Peter J. Grua, Director

Paul D. Nungester, Jr., Vice President and Controller (Principal
    Accounting Officer)

/s/

Fred
    S. Klipsch*

Fred S. Klipsch, Vice Chairman

*By:

/s/

George
    L. Chapman

George
    L. Chapman,

Attorney-in-Fact



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

SCHEDULE III

REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

December 31, 2007

Gross Amount at Which

Initial Cost to Company

Cost Capitalized

Carried at Close of Period

Buildings &

Subsequent to

Buildings &

Accumulated

Year

Year

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Improvements

Acquisition

Land

Improvements

Depreciation

Acquired

Built

(Dollars in thousands)

Assisted Living Facilities:

Alhambra, CA

$


$


$

2,534

$


$


$

2,534

$




Amarillo, TX



5,100



5,100




Asheboro, NC(3)

3,472


5,032



5,198




Asheville, NC



3,490



3,490




Asheville, NC



1,955



2,306




Auburn, MA(1)


1,050

7,950


1,050

7,950




Azusa, CA



3,141



3,141




Baltimore, MD



4,515



4,515




Bartlesville, OK



1,380



1,380




Beaumont, TX



6,050



6,050




Bellevue, WI


1,740

18,260


1,740

18,260




Bellingham, WA



3,200



3,200




Bradenton, FL



3,298



3,298

1,146



Bradenton, FL



1,700



2,642

1,039



Brandon, FL



7,140



7,140




Bremerton, WA



2,210



2,304




Burlington, NC



4,297



5,004




Burlington, NC(3)

2,736


5,467



5,467




Butte, MT



3,957



4,000




Canton, OH



2,098



2,098




Cape Coral, FL



3,281



3,281




Cary, NC


1,500

4,350


1,500

5,336

1,244



Cedar Hill, TX



1,490



1,490




Chapel Hill, NC



2,646



3,429




Chelmsford, MA(2)

8,765

1,040

10,951


1,040

10,951

1,235



Chickasha, OK



1,395



1,395




Chubbuck, ID



5,375



5,375




Claremore, OK



1,428



1,428




Clarksville, TN



2,292



2,292




Cleburne, TX



5,411



5,411




Coeur D’ Alene, ID



7,570



7,570




Columbia, TN



2,295



2,295




Concord, NC(3)

4,587


3,921



3,976




Corpus Christi, TX



2,935



2,950

1,401



Corpus Christi, TX



4,796



4,935

2,761



Danville, VA



3,954



4,676




Dayton, OH



2,970

1,428


4,398

1,007



DeForest, WI



5,350



5,350




Desoto, TX



1,383



1,383




Duncan, OK



1,347



1,347




Durham, NC


1,476

10,659

2,197

1,476

12,856

5,132



Eden, NC(3)

2,975


4,877



4,877




Edmond, OK



1,564



1,564




Elizabeth City, NC



2,760

2,011


4,771




Encinitas, CA


1,460

7,721


1,460

7,721

1,651



Enid, OK



1,390



1,390




Everett, WA


1,400

5,476


1,400

5,476

1,312



Fairfield, CA


1,460

14,040


1,460

14,040

2,307



Fairhaven, MA



6,230



6,230




Fayetteville, NY



3,962



4,462




Federal Way, WA



3,960



3,960




Findlay, OH



1,800



1,800




Flagstaff, AZ



4,460



4,460




Florence, NJ



2,978



2,978




Forest City, NC(3)

3,048


4,497



4,497




Fort Worth, TX



3,790



3,881

1,884



Fredericksburg, VA(5)

7,151

1,000

20,000


1,000

20,303

1,444



Gastonia, NC(3)

4,055


6,129



6,129




Gastonia, NC(3)

1,908


3,096



3,118




Gastonia, NC(3)

3,844


5,029



5,149




Georgetown, TX



2,100



2,100






Gross Amount at Which

Initial Cost to Company

Cost Capitalized

Carried at Close of Period

Buildings &

Subsequent to

Buildings &

Accumulated

Year

Year

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Improvements

Acquisition

Land

Improvements

Depreciation

Acquired

Built

(Dollars in thousands)

Grand Terrace, CA

$


$


$

2,770

$


$


$

2,770

$




Greenfield, WI



6,626



6,626




Greensboro, NC



2,970



3,524




Greensboro, NC



5,507

1,013


6,520




Greenville, NC(3)

3,561


4,393



4,561




Greenville, SC



4,750



4,750




Hagerstown, MD



4,640



4,640




Hamden, CT


1,470

4,530


1,470

4,530




Hamilton, NJ



4,469



4,469




Harlingen, TX



2,057



2,184

1,001



Hattiesburg, MS



5,790



5,790




Hemet, CA



3,405



3,405




Henderson, NV



9,220



9,286

2,207



Henderson, NV



4,360



4,401




Hickory, NC






1,219




High Point, NC



4,443



5,236




High Point, NC



2,185



2,595




High Point, NC(3)

2,593


3,395



3,423




High Point, NC(3)

2,925


4,143



4,143




Highlands Ranch, CO



3,721



3,721




Hopedale, MA



8,170



8,170




Houston, TX



2,640



2,640




Houston, TX



2,640



2,640




Hutchinson, KS



10,590



10,590




Jackson, TN



1,633

3,015


4,648




Jonesboro, GA



1,304



1,304




Kalispell, MT



3,282



3,282




Kenner, LA


1,100

10,036


1,100

10,161

4,106



Kent, WA



20,318



20,318




Kirkland, WA(2)

4,798

1,880

4,315


1,880

4,315




Knoxville, TN



2,755



2,754




Lake Havasu City, AZ



4,223



4,223




Lake Havasu City, AZ



2,244



2,380




Lakeland, FL



4,580



4,580




Lakewood, NY



8,530



8,530




Lecanto, FL



6,900



6,900




Lenoir, NC



3,748



4,389




Lexington, NC



3,900

1,015


4,915




Longview, TX



4,440



4,440




Longview, TX



5,520



5,520




Louisville, KY



7,610



7,610




Lubbock, TX



6,220

1,660


7,880




Manassas, VA(2)

3,651


7,446



7,446




Mansfield, TX



5,251



5,251




Margate, FL



7,303

2,459


9,762

4,835



Martinsville, NC









Marysville, CA



4,172



4,216




Matthews, NC(3)

3,719


4,738



4,738




McHenry, IL


1,632



1,632




McHenry, IL


3,550

15,300


3,550

15,300




Menomonee Falls, WI


1,020

6,984


1,020

6,984




Middleburg Heights, OH



7,780



7,780




Middleton, WI



4,006



4,606




Midland, TX



4,930



4,930




Midwest City, OK



1,385



1,385




Missoula, MT(4)

6,363


7,490



7,490




Monroe, NC



3,681



4,329




Monroe, NC



4,799



5,656




Monroe, NC(3)

3,295


4,021



4,135




Morehead City, NC



3,104

1,648


4,752




Moses Lake, WA



5,940



5,940




Mt. Vernon, WA



2,200



2,332




Nacogdoches, TX



5,754



5,754




New York, NY


1,440

21,460


1,440

22,436




Newark, DE



21,220



21,220

1,795



Newburyport, MA



8,290



8,290

1,272



Norman, OK



1,484



1,484




North Augusta, SC



2,558



2,558




North Miami Beach, FL



5,709

2,006


7,715

3,669





Gross Amount at Which

Initial Cost to Company

Cost Capitalized

Carried at Close of Period

Buildings &

Subsequent to

Buildings &

Accumulated

Year

Year

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Improvements

Acquisition

Land

Improvements

Depreciation

Acquired

Built

(Dollars in thousands)

North Oklahoma City, OK

$


$


$

1,508

$


$


$

1,508

$




Ocean Shores, WA



1,390



1,390




Ogden, UT



6,700



6,700




Oklahoma City, OK



1,350



1,350




Oklahoma City, OK



2,943



2,943




Oneonta, NY



5,020



5,020




Ontario, OR



2,110



2,110




Oshkosh, WI



3,800

3,687


7,487




Owasso, OK



1,380



1,380




Palestine, TX



1,410



1,410




Palestine, TX



4,320



4,320




Paris, TX



5,452



5,452




Paso Robles, CA


1,770

8,630


1,770

8,630

1,408



Phoenix, AZ


1,000

6,500


1,000

6,500




Pinehurst, NC



2,690



3,174




Piqua, OH



1,885



1,885




Pittsburgh, PA


1,750

8,572


1,750

8,687




Pocatello, ID



1,930



1,930




Ponca City, OK



1,536



1,536




Portland, OR



3,585



3,817




Quincy, MA


2,690

15,411


2,690

15,411

1,218



Reidsville, NC



3,830



4,687




Reno, NV


1,060

11,440


1,060

11,440

1,004



Ridgeland, MS(2)

4,637


7,675



7,675




Rocky Hill, CT


1,460

7,040


1,460

7,040

1,202



Rocky Hill, CT


1,090

6,710


1,090

6,710




Romeoville, IL


1,895



1,895




Roswell, GA



2,200



2,384




Salem, OR



5,172



5,172

1,284



Salisbury, NC(3)

3,570


5,697



5,865




Salt Lake City, UT


1,060

6,142


1,060

6,142

1,196



San Angelo, TX



8,800



8,800




San Juan Capistrano, CA


1,390

6,942


1,390

6,942

1,226



Sarasota, FL



3,175



3,175

1,104



Sarasota, FL


1,190

4,810


1,190

4,810




Seven Fields, PA



4,663



4,722

1,176



Shawnee, OK



1,400



1,400




Sheboygan, WI



5,320



5,320




Sherman, TX



5,220



5,220




Smithfield, NC(3)

3,471


5,680



5,680




Statesville, NC



1,447



1,713




Smithfield, NC(3)

2,842


6,183



6,190




Smithfield, NC(3)

2,434


3,627



3,627




Staunton, VA



8,359



8,359




Stillwater, OK



1,400



1,400




Tewksbury, MA


1,520

5,480


1,520

5,480




Texarkana, TX



1,403



1,403




Troy, OH



2,000



2,000




Tyler, TX



5,267



5,267




Valparaiso, IN



2,558



2,558




Valparaiso, IN



2,962



2,962




Vero Beach, FL



3,187



3,187




Vero Beach, FL



3,263



3,263




W. Hartford, CT


2,650

5,980


2,650

5,980




Waco, TX



4,500



4,500




Wake Forest, NC



3,003

1,742


4,745

1,010



Waterford, CT


1,360

12,539


1,360

12,539

1,968



Waxahachie, TX



1,429



1,429




Weatherford, TX



5,261



5,261




Westerville, OH



8,287

2,736


11,023

3,738



Wichita Falls, TX



3,010



3,010




Wilmington, NC



2,991



2,991




Winston-Salem, NC



2,514



2,973




Total Assisted Living Facilities:

90,400

106,604

948,084

42,179

106,605

990,262

142,937

Skilled Nursing Facilities:

Agawam, MA



16,112

2,135


18,247

2,598



Akron, OH



8,219



8,710






Gross Amount at Which

Initial Cost to Company

Cost Capitalized

Carried at Close of Period

Buildings &

Subsequent to

Buildings &

Accumulated

Year

Year

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Improvements

Acquisition

Land

Improvements

Depreciation

Acquired

Built

(Dollars in thousands)

Akron, OH

$


$


$

7,535

$


$


$

7,719

$




Alliance, OH(6)

4,954


7,723



7,830




Amarillo, TX



7,260



7,260




Arcadia, LA



5,460



5,460




Atlanta, GA



5,540



5,540




Auburndale, FL



5,950



5,950




Austin, TX



18,970



18,970




Baltic, OH(6)

4,061


8,709



8,898




Baytown, TX



6,150



6,150




Beachwood, OH


1,260

23,478


1,260

23,478

3,917



Beattyville, KY



6,900



6,900




Bernice, LA



1,017



1,017




Birmingham, AL



4,902



4,902




Birmingham, AL



5,734



5,734




Boise, ID



5,401



5,401

1,723



Boonville, IN



5,510



5,510




Bountiful, UT



6,850



6,850




Boynton Beach, FL



8,112



8,112




Braintree, MA



7,157

1,290


8,447

4,400



Brandon, MS



9,549



9,549

1,286



Bridgewater, NJ


1,850

3,050


1,850

3,050




Brighton, MA



3,859

2,097


5,956




Broadview Heights, OH



12,400



12,400

2,074



Bunnell, FL



7,118



7,118




Butler, AL



3,510



3,510




Byrdstown, TN



2,414



2,414




Canton, MA



8,201



8,464

1,400



Carrollton, TX



2,770



2,770




Centerville, MA


1,490

9,650

3,946

1,490

13,596




Cheswick, PA



6,041

1,293


7,334

2,015



Clarksville, TN



5,020



5,020




Clearwater, FL



7,218



7,218




Clearwater, FL


1,260

2,740


1,260

2,740




Cleveland, MS



1,850



1,850




Cleveland, TN



5,000



5,122




Coeur d’Alene, ID



7,878



7,878

2,199



Colorado Springs, CO



6,290



6,290




Columbia, TN



3,787



3,787




Columbus, IN



5,170

1,540


6,710




Columbus, OH


1,070

11,726

1,197

1,070

12,923




Columbus, OH(6)

4,652

1,010

4,931


1,010

5,022




Columbus, OH(6)

10,475

1,860

16,624

1,077

1,860

17,701




Corpus Christi, TX










Corpus Christi, TX



1,916



1,916




Dade City, FL



7,150



7,150




Daytona Beach, FL



5,930



5,930




Daytona Beach, FL



5,710



5,710




Daytona Beach, FL


1,850

2,650


1,850

2,650




DeBary, FL



7,460



7,460




Dedham, MA


1,360

9,830


1,360

9,830

1,719



Defuniak Springs, FL


1,350

10,250


1,350

10,250




DeLand, FL



7,080



7,080




Denton, MD



4,010



4,010




Denver, CO


2,530

9,514


2,530

9,514




Douglasville, GA


1,350

7,471


1,350

7,471

1,067



Easton, PA



6,315



6,315

2,884



Eight Mile, AL



6,110



6,110




El Paso, TX



8,961



8,961




El Paso, TX



3,958



3,958




Elizabethton, TN



4,604



4,940




Erin, TN



8,060



8,194

1,413



Eugene, OR



5,316



5,316

1,611



Fairfield, AL



9,134



9,134

1,237



Fall River, MA



5,829

4,857


10,686

2,644



Farmerville, LA



4,087



4,087




Florence, AL



3,975



3,975




Fort Myers, FL



6,026



6,026

2,491



Fort Pierce, FL



3,560



3,560




Gardnerville, NV



1,718



2,503






Gross Amount at Which

Initial Cost to Company

Cost Capitalized

Carried at Close of Period

Buildings &

Subsequent to

Buildings &

Accumulated

Year

Year

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Improvements

Acquisition

Land

Improvements

Depreciation

Acquired

Built

(Dollars in thousands)

Goshen, IN

$


$


$

6,120

$


$


$

6,120

$




Graceville, FL



13,000



13,000




Grand Prairie, TX



3,426



3,426




Granite City, IL



7,143



7,985

3,287



Granite City, IL



4,303



5,010

2,012



Greeneville, TN



8,290



8,290




Hanover, IN



4,430



4,430




Hardin, IL



5,350



5,485

1,950



Harriman, TN



8,060



8,218

1,509



Herculaneum, MO



10,373



10,766

3,690



Hilliard, FL



6,990



6,990

1,868



Homestead, FL


2,750

11,750


2,750

11,750




Houston, TX



2,700



2,700




Houston, TX



18,715



18,715




Houston, TX



5,970



6,720

1,008



Huron, OH



6,088



6,340




Indianapolis, IN










Jackson, MS



1,814



1,814




Jackson, MS



4,400



4,400

1,980



Jackson, MS



2,150



2,150




Jamestown, TN



6,707



6,707

1,677



Jefferson City, MO



6,730



7,031

2,397



Jefferson, OH



9,120



9,120




Jonesboro, GA



1,921



1,921




Kalida, OH



8,173



8,173




Kent, OH



3,367



3,367

1,413



Kissimmee, FL



3,854



3,854




LaBelle, FL



4,946



4,946




Lake Placid, FL



12,850



12,850

1,286



Lakeland, FL



4,843



4,843

2,019



Lee, MA



18,135



19,061

2,962



Littleton, MA


1,239

2,910


1,239

2,910




Longview, TX



1,707



1,707




Longwood, FL



7,520



7,520




Louisville, KY



10,010



10,010




Louisville, KY



7,135



7,298

1,311



Louisville, KY



4,675



4,784




Lowell, MA



7,450

1,012


8,462




Lufkin, TX



1,184



1,184




Manchester, NH



4,360



4,360




Marianna, FL



8,910



8,910




McComb, MS



5,786



5,786




Memphis, TN



4,246



4,246




Memphis, TN



5,656



5,656




Memphis, TN



5,963



5,963




Merrillville, IN



7,084

3,526


10,610

3,557



Mesa, AZ



2,579



2,579




Midwest City, OK



5,673



5,673

2,261



Midwest City, OK



5,516



5,516




Millbury, MA



4,570



4,570




Mobile, AL



3,625



3,625




Monteagle, TN



3,318



3,318




Monterey, TN



4,195



4,195

1,049



Monticello, FL



4,471



4,471




Morgantown, KY



3,705



3,705




Moss Point, MS



7,280



7,280




Mountain City, TN



5,896



6,556

1,949



Naples, FL



5,450



5,450




Natchitoches, LA



4,096



4,096




Needham, MA


1,610

13,715


1,610

14,081

2,403



New Haven, CT



4,778

1,134


5,912




New Haven, IN



3,524



3,524




New Port Richey, FL



7,307



7,307

3,002



North Miami, FL



3,918



3,918




North Miami, FL



4,830



4,830




Norwalk, CT



2,118

2,201


4,319




Oklahoma City, OK



10,694



10,694




Ormond Beach, FL



2,739



2,812




Overland Park, KS


1,120

8,360


1,120

8,360






Gross Amount at Which

Initial Cost to Company

Cost Capitalized

Carried at Close of Period

Buildings &

Subsequent to

Buildings &

Accumulated

Year

Year

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Improvements

Acquisition

Land

Improvements

Depreciation

Acquired

Built

(Dollars in thousands)

Owensboro, KY

$


$


$

6,760

$


$


$

6,760

$




Owensboro, KY



13,275



13,275




Owenton, KY



2,400



2,400




Panama City, FL



9,200



9,200




Pasadena, TX



24,080



24,080




Pigeon Forge, TN



4,180



4,297




Pikesville, MD



10,750



10,750




Plano, TX


1,305

9,095


1,305

9,095




Plymouth, MA



6,220



7,151




Port St. Joe, FL



2,055



2,055




Prospect, CT



1,441

2,407


3,848




Pueblo, CO



6,051



6,051

1,900



Pueblo, CO



9,391



9,391




Quincy, FL



5,333



5,333




Quitman, MS



10,340



10,340




Rheems, PA



1,575



1,575




Richmond, VA


1,211

2,889


1,211

2,889




Richmond, VA



12,640



12,640




Ridgely, TN



5,700



5,797

1,024



Ringgold, LA



4,174



4,174




Rochdale, MA



11,847

2,024


13,746

1,945



Rockledge, FL



4,117



4,117




Rockwood, TN



7,116



7,857

1,423



Rogersville, TN



3,278



3,278




Royal Palm Beach, FL



8,320



8,320




Ruleville, MS










Ruston, LA



9,403



9,403




San Antonio, TX



7,315



7,315

1,156



San Antonio, TX



13,360



13,360




Sandwich, MA


1,140

11,190


1,140

11,469




Sarasota, FL



8,474



8,474

1,940



Sarasota, FL



3,400



3,400




Scituate, MA


1,740

10,640


1,740

10,640




Seville, OH



1,770



1,770




Shelby, MS



5,340



5,340




Shelbyville, KY



3,870



3,870




South Boston, MA



2,002

5,218


7,220

1,882



South Pittsburg, TN



5,628



5,628




Southbridge, MA



8,110

2,793


10,903




Spring City, TN



6,085

2,579


8,664

1,468



St. Louis, MO



6,030



6,030




Starke, FL



10,180



10,180

1,013



Staunton, VA



11,090



11,090




Stuart, FL



8,110



8,110




Swanton, OH



6,370



6,370




Tampa, FL



6,370



6,370




Torrington, CT



1,261



2,090




Troy, OH



16,730



16,730

1,451



Tucson, AZ



13,399



13,399




Tupelo, MS



4,092



4,092




Uhrichsville, OH



6,716



6,716




Venice, FL



6,000



6,000




Vero Beach, FL



9,040

1,461


10,501

4,189



Wareham, MA



10,313

1,701


12,014

1,817



Warren, OH



3,810



3,810




Waterbury, CT



2,166

1,163


3,329




Webster, TX



5,940



5,940




West Haven, CT



1,620

1,235


2,855




West Palm Beach, FL



8,037



8,037

3,820



West Worthington, OH



5,090



5,090




Westlake, OH


1,330

17,928


1,330

17,928

3,038



Westlake, OH



5,411



5,411

1,635



Westmoreland, TN



1,822

2,634


4,456




White Hall, IL



5,550



6,220

2,165



Whitemarsh, PA


2,310

6,190


2,310

6,190




Williamsburg, VA


1,360

7,440


1,360

7,440




Williamstown, KY



6,430



6,430




Winnfield, LA



6,480



6,480




Woodbridge, VA



4,423



4,423






Gross Amount at Which

Initial Cost to Company

Cost Capitalized

Carried at Close of Period

Buildings &

Subsequent to

Buildings &

Accumulated

Year

Year

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Improvements

Acquisition

Land

Improvements

Depreciation

Acquired

Built

(Dollars in thousands)

Worcester, MA

$


$

1,100

$

5,400

$

2,497

$

1,100

$

7,897

$




Total Skilled Nursing Facilities

24,142

111,614

1,384,450

65,218

111,739

1,449,543

194,548

Independent Living Facilities/CCRCs:

Amelia Island, FL


3,290

24,310

1,938

3,290

26,248

1,294



Anderson, SC



6,290



6,290




Atlanta, GA


2,059

14,914


2,059

14,914

5,729



Aurora, CO


2,600

5,906

8,036

2,600

13,942




Aurora, CO


1,379



1,379




Austin, TX



9,520



9,520

2,423



Columbia, SC


2,120

4,860

2,185

2,120

7,045




Denver, CO


3,650

14,906


3,650

15,186




Douglasville, GA










Fremont, CA


3,400

25,300


3,400

25,300

1,335



Gardnerville, NV


1,144

10,831


1,144

10,831

4,718



Gilroy, CA



13,880



13,920




Houston, TX


4,790

7,100


4,790

7,100

1,201



Indianapolis, IN



6,287

22,565


28,852




Indianapolis, IN



2,473



2,473




Lauderhill, FL


1,836

25,216


1,836

25,216

1,694



Manteca, CA


1,300

12,125


1,300

12,125




Marysville, WA



4,780



4,780




Mesa, AZ



9,087



9,087

1,843



Mount Airy, NC



6,430



6,430




Naples, FL


1,716

17,306


1,716

17,306

9,177



Ossining, NY


1,510

9,490


1,510

9,490

1,513



Pawleys Island, SC


1,010

32,590

1,862

1,010

34,452

1,716



Raytown, MO



5,490



5,490




Rohnert Park, CA


6,500

18,700


6,500

18,700

1,001



Roswell, GA


1,107

9,627


1,107

9,627

4,241



Sonoma, CA


1,100

18,400


1,100

18,400




Spartanburg, SC


3,350

15,750


3,350

16,285




Twin Falls, ID



14,740



14,740

2,093



Urbana, IL



6,780



6,780

1,153



Vacaville, CA



17,100



17,100




Vallejo, CA


4,000

18,000


4,000

18,000




Vero Beach, FL


2,930

40,070


2,930

40,070




Wichita, KS


1,400

11,000


1,400

11,000




Winston-Salem, NC


2,850

13,550


2,850

13,879




Total Independent Living Facilities/CCRCs


62,701

453,025

37,770

62,701

490,795

51,660

Specialty Care Facilities:

Amarillo, TX



11,928



11,928




Bellaire, TX


4,028

45,900


4,028

45,975

1,338



Braintree, MA



13,731



13,781

4,864



Chicago, IL


3,650

7,505

11,820

3,650

19,325

4,819



Corpus Christi, TX



3,923



3,923




El Paso, TX



15,888



15,888

1,027



Ft. Wayne, IN



8,232



8,232




Lafayette, LA


1,928

10,483


1,928

10,483




Midwest City, OK



3,854



3,854




New Albany, OH


3,020

27,445


3,020

27,445

3,590



Plano, TX



14,805



14,805




San Antonio, TX



17,303



17,303




Springfield, MA


2,100

22,913


2,100

23,073

8,715



Stoughton, MA



25,247



25,247

9,701



Tulsa, OK


3,003

6,025


3,003

6,025




Waukesha, WI


4,700

20,670


4,700

20,670



Webster, TX


2,418

12,028


2,418

12,028




Total Specialty Care Facilities


26,944

267,880

12,055

26,894

279,985

38,033

Medical Office Buildings:

Arcadia, CA(7)

10,676

5,408

23,219


5,604

23,479

1,117



Atlanta, GA


4,931

18,720


4,983

18,771

1,038



Aurora, IL



9,023



9,023




Aurora, IL


2,803

1,711


2,803

1,711




Austell, GA(7)

4,496

2,223

8,362


2,223

8,362






Gross Amount at Which

Initial Cost to Company

Cost Capitalized

Carried at Close of Period

Buildings &

Subsequent to

Buildings &

Accumulated

Year

Year

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Improvements

Acquisition

Land

Improvements

Depreciation

Acquired

Built

(Dollars in thousands)

Bartlett, TN(8)

$

8,860

$


$

15,015

$


$


$

15,113

$




Bellaire, TX


2,972

33,445


2,972

33,455

1,106



Birmingham, AL



39,552



40,300

1,518



Boca Raton, FL(7)

14,519


34,002



34,239

1,319



Boynton Beach, FL(7)

4,405


6,574



6,750




Boynton Beach, FL(7)

4,840

2,048

7,692


2,048

7,692




Boynton Beach, FL(8)

4,341

2,048

7,403


2,048

7,451




Boynton Beach, FL(8)

6,484


11,235



11,360




Claremore, OK(8)

8,603


12,829



12,829




Coral Springs, FL


1,598

10,627


1,600

10,710




Dallas, TX(7)

16,331


29,357



29,384

2,234



Decatur, GA



1,837



1,847




Delray Beach, FL(7)

14,232

1,882

34,767


1,882

34,961

1,712



Denton, TX(8)

12,690


19,407



19,407




Durham, NC(7)

6,710

6,814

10,825


6,826

11,212

1,092



Durham, NC










Edinburg, TX(7)

6,300


4,791



4,791




El Paso, TX


1,083

6,427


1,083

6,499




El Paso, TX(7)

10,930


17,075



17,075




Fayetteville, GA(7)

3,488


7,540



7,647




Franklin, TN


2,338

12,138


2,338

12,138




Frisco, TX(8)

9,739


18,635



18,635




Frisco, TX



15,309



15,321




Germantown, TN


3,049

12,456


3,049

12,456




Glendale, CA(8)

8,771


18,558



18,558




Greeley, CO



6,711



6,711




Jupiter, FL(7)

7,628

2,252

11,415


2,252

11,415




Jupiter, FL(8)

4,755


5,858

2,825

2,825

5,858




Lakeway, TX


2,801



2,801




Lakewood, CA



14,885



14,929




Las Vegas , NV(7)

6,391


15,287



15,374




Las Vegas, NV


6,127



6,127




Las Vegas, NV(7)

8,347

6,734

54,886


6,734

54,886

1,826



Las Vegas, NV(7)

4,728

2,319

4,612


2,319

4,622




Las Vegas, NV(8)

3,270


6,921



6,917




Lawrenceville, GA


2,279

10,732


2,279

10,732




Lawrenceville, GA(7)

2,476

1,054

4,974


1,054

4,974




Lewisville, TX



5,030



5,160




Los Alamitos, CA(8)

8,909


18,635



18,635




Los Gatos, CA



22,832



22,877

1,692



Loxahatchee, FL(7)

3,463

1,340

6,509


1,340

6,509




Loxahatchee, FL(7)

2,847

1,553

4,694


1,562

4,716




Loxahatchee, FL


1,637

5,048


1,646

5,048




Middletown, NY


1,756

20,364


1,756

20,364

1,336



Morrow, GA



8,064



8,064




Mount Juliet, TN(10)

6,373

1,566

12,885


1,566

12,885




Nashville , TN


1,806

7,165


1,806

7,229




Niagra Falls, NY


1,335

17,702


1,335

17,702




Ocala, FL



4,982



4,982




Okatie, SC(8)

8,402


18,282



18,282




Orange Village, OH



7,419



7,419




Palm Bay, FL(7)

2,033

1,476

3,432


1,484

3,476

1,031



Palm Springs , CA



12,396



12,708




Palm Springs, FL(7)

2,917


4,078



4,074




Palm Springs, FL


1,174

7,834


1,182

7,859




Palmer, AK(8)

19,980


29,705



30,476




Pearland, TX(7)

2,513


5,522



5,522




Pearland, TX(7)

1,635


4,599



4,599




Pelham, AL



1,455



1,466




Phoenix, AZ(7)

30,878

1,149

49,586


1,149

49,587

3,447



Pineville, NC



6,974



6,974




Plantation, FL(7)

10,346

8,563

10,666


8,563

10,687




Plantation, FL(7)

9,654

8,848

9,423

—

8,848

9,423

1,060



Reno, NV


1,117

22,090


1,117

22,090

1,214



Sacramento, CA(7)

5,161


12,756



12,756




San Antonio, TX(7)

6,789

2,050

16,251


2,050

16,318




St. Louis, MO(8)

8,023


17,247



17,247




Suwanee, GA


1,776

5,804


1,776

5,808




Suwanee, GA


1,437

4,941


1,437

4,992






Gross Amount at Which

Initial Cost to Company

Cost Capitalized

Carried at Close of Period

Buildings &

Subsequent to

Buildings &

Accumulated

Year

Year

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Improvements

Acquisition

Land

Improvements

Depreciation

Acquired

Built

(Dollars in thousands)

Suwanee, GA

$


$

1,046

$

4,786

$


$

1,046

$

4,796

$




Tempe, AZ(8)

5,804


9,112

1,487

1,487

9,112




Tomball, TX(7)

3,074

1,404

5,142


1,404

5,142




Trussville, AL


1,336

2,177


1,336

2,185




Tucson, AZ(8)

10,814


18,339



18,546




Union City, TN


1,878

7,535


1,878

7,535




Voorhees, NJ


6,404

24,251


6,405

24,253




Wellington , Fl(8)

6,689


13,697



13,697




Wellington, FL(7)

7,458


16,933



16,933




West Palm Beach, FL(7)

7,660


14,740



14,775




West Palm Beach, FL(7)

7,075


14,618



14,618




West Palm Beach, FL(7)

6,405


15,183



15,296




West Seneca, NY(9)

13,519


22,435



22,435




Yorkville, IL


1,419

2,816


1,419

2,821




Total Medical Office Building

392,431

132,181

1,140,946

11,645

139,090

1,145,682

51,195

Construction in Progress



313,709



313,709


Total Investment in Real Property Owned

$

506,973

$

440,044

$

4,508,094

$

168,867

$

447,029

$

4,669,976

$

478,373



(10)

In December 2007, a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of the Company completed the acquisition of a medical
    office building from Sports Docs, L.L.C. The property was
    subject to existing mortgage debt of $6,374,000. The
    wholly-owned subsidiary is included in the Company’s
    consolidated financial statements. Notwithstanding consolidation
    for financial statement purposes, it is the Company’s
    intention that the subsidiary be a separate legal entity wherein
    the assets and liabilities are not available to pay other debts
    or obligations of the consolidated Company.



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Investment in real estate:

Balance at beginning of year

$

4,282,858

$

2,936,800

$

2,409,963

Additions:

Acquisitions

435,473

913,160

568,660

Improvements

333,520

169,811

31,422

Conversions from loans receivable


11,204

3,908

Deferred acquisition payments


2,000

18,125

Assumed other assets/(liabilities), net

2,432

24,488


Assumed debt

166,188

326,690

22,309

SFAS 141 adjustments

2,189



Total additions

939,802

1,447,353

644,424

Deductions:

Cost of real estate sold

(105,655

)

(94,466

)

(115,179

)

Reclassification of accumulated depreciation for assets held for
    sale


(6,829

)

(2,408

)

Total deductions

(105,655

)

(101,295

)

(117,587

)

Balance at end of year(1)

$

5,117,005

$

4,282,858

$

2,936,800

Accumulated depreciation:

Balance at beginning of year

$

347,007

$

274,875

$

219,536

Additions:

Depreciation and amortization expenses

149,626

97,638

84,828

Amortization of above market leases

3,518



Total additions

153,144

97,638

84,828

Deductions:

Sale of properties

(21,778

)

(18,677

)

(27,081

)

Reclassification of accumulated depreciation for assets held for
    sale


(6,829

)

(2,408

)

Total deductions

(21,778

)

(25,506

)

(29,489

)

Balance at end of year

$

478,373

$

347,007

$

274,875

(1)

The aggregate cost for tax purposes
    for real property equals $5,110,696,000, $4,049,675,000 and
    $2,389,766,000 at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

SCHEDULE IV —
    MORTGAGE LOANS ON REAL ESTATE

December 31,

(In thousands)

Principal Amount

of Loans Subject

Final

Periodic

Carrying

to Delinquent

Interest

Maturity

Payment

Prior

Face Amount

Amount of

Principal or

Description

Rate

Date

Terms

Liens

of Mortgages

Mortgages

Interest(1)

First mortgage loan relating to

10.14%

09/30/20

Monthly Payments

$


$

34,000

$

33,560

$


two skilled nursing facilities in Florida

$312,198

First mortgage loan relating to

9.380%

04/01/22

Monthly Payments


23,097

23,097


five skilled nursing facilities in Virginia

$180,542

First mortgage loan relating to

11.73%

09/01/12

Monthly Payments


12,700

12,332


one skilled nursing facility in Florida

$130,949

First mortgage loan relating to

13.95%

09/07/09

Monthly Payments


12,000

11,550


one specialty care facility in Massachusetts

$70,744

First mortgage loan relating to

15.21%

07/01/08

Monthly Payments


7,400

7,145


one skilled nursing facility in Pennsylvania

$71,447

First mortgage loan relating to

9.63%

05/01/09

Monthly Payments


18,800

6,949


one specialty care facility in California

$169,818

Second mortgage loan realting to

19.26%

09/09/09

Monthly Payments

16,414

5,700

5,700


one independent living facility in Massachusetts

$48,165

First mortgage loan realting to

19.26%

12/01/08

Monthly Payments


4,895

4,768


one independent living facility in Massachusetts

$40,291

First mortgage loan realting to

10.14%

06/30/20

Monthly Payments


4,500

4,382


one skilled nursing facility in Michigan

$41,282

Six first mortgage loans

From

From

Monthly Payments


15,731

15,232


relating to three independent

7.00% to

09/1/10 to

from $489

living facilities, one assisted living facility, and seven
    skilled nursing facilities

19.00%

12/01/15

to $76,514

Six second mortgage loans

From

From

Monthly Payments

15,394

18,442

15,369


relating to six independent

19.00% to

05/01/08 to

from $7,886

living facilities

19.26%

01/31/12

to $24,922

Two third mortgage loans

From

From

Monthly Payments

7,392

3,109

3,007


relating to two independent

19.00% to

09/01/08 to

from $10,715

living facilities

19.26%

01/01/09

to $11,830

Totals

$

39,200

$

160,374

$

143,091

$


(1)

Represents allocation of allowance
    for losses on loans receivable, if applicable.



HEALTH
    CARE REIT, INC.

Year Ended December 31,




(In thousands)

Reconciliation of mortgage loans:

Balance at beginning of year

$

177,615

$

141,467

$

155,266

Additions:

New mortgage loans

55,692

87,563

36,055

Reclass from non real estate loans

1,607



Total additions

57,299

87,563

36,055

Deductions:

Collections of principal(1)

(19,296

)

(40,155

)

(45,946

)

Conversions to real property


(11,204

)

(3,908

)

Charge-offs


(56

)


Reclass to other real estate loans(2)

(72,527

)



Total deductions

(91,823

)

(51,415

)

(49,854

)

Balance at end of year

$

143,091

$

177,615

$

141,467

(1)

Includes collection of negative
    principal amortization.

(2)

In 2007, the Company reclassified
    all loans that did not have a first, second or third mortgage
    lien to other real estate loans.



EXHIBIT INDEX


.1

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 12, 2006, by
    and among Health Care REIT, Inc., Heat Merger Sub, LLC, Heat OP
    Merger Sub, L.P., Windrose Medical Properties Trust and Windrose
    Medical Properties, L.P. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
    2.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 15, 2006, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.2

Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of
    October 12, 2006, by and among Health Care REIT, Inc., Heat
    Merger Sub, LLC, Heat OP Merger Sub, L.P., Windrose Medical
    Properties Trust and Windrose Medical Properties, L.P. (filed
    with the Commission as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Form
    8-K filed October 13, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.1

Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s
    Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.2

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Junior
    Participating Preferred Stock, Series A, of the Company (filed
    with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
    10-K filed March 20, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.3

Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 20,
    2000, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.4

Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed June 13, 2003,
    and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.5

Certificate of Designation of


/


%
    Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Company
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 2.5 to the Company’s
    Form 8-A/A filed July 8, 2003, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.6

Certificate of Designation of 6% Series E Cumulative Convertible
    and Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Company (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
    October 1, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.7

Certificate of Designation of


/


%
    Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of the Company
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 2.5 to the Company’s
    Form 8-A filed September 10, 2004, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.8

Certificate of Designation of 7.5% Series G Cumulative
    Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
    December 20, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.9

Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of
    Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 3.9 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 9,
    2007, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.10

Second Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company (filed with
    the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K
    filed October 29, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.1

The Company, by signing this Report, agrees to furnish the
    Securities and Exchange Commission upon its request a copy of
    any instrument that defines the rights of holders of long-term
    debt of the Company and authorizes a total amount of securities
    not in excess of 10% of the total assets of the Company.


.2

Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997 between the Company and
    Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to
    the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 21, 1997, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.3

First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 17, 1997, to
    Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the Company and
    Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to
    the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 21, 1997, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.4

Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 13, 1998, to
    Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the Company and
    Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to
    the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 11, 1998, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.5

Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 18, 1999, to
    Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the Company and
    Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to
    the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 17, 1999, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).




.6

Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 10, 2001, to
    Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the Company and
    Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to
    the Company’s Form 8-K filed August 9, 2001, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.7

Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated September 10, 2003, to
    Indenture dated as of April 17, 1997, between the Company and
    Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to
    the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 24, 2003, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.8

Amendment No. 1, dated September 16, 2003, to Supplemental
    Indenture No. 5, dated September 10, 2003, to Indenture dated as
    of April 17, 1997, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s
    Form 8-K filed September 24, 2003, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.9

Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September 6,
    2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
    September 9, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.10

Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of September 6, 2002, to
    Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September 6,
    2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
    September 9, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.11

Amendment No. 1, dated March 12, 2003, to Supplemental Indenture
    No. 1, dated as of September 6, 2002, to Indenture for Senior
    Debt Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the
    Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 14, 2003,
    and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.12

Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of September 10, 2003, to
    Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September 6,
    2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
    September 24, 2003, and

incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.13

Amendment No. 1, dated September 16, 2003, to Supplemental
    Indenture No. 2, dated as of September 10, 2003, to Indenture
    for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002,
    between the Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 4.4 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
    September 24, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).


.14

Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of October 29, 2003, to
    Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September 6,
    2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
    October 30, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.15

Amendment No. 1, dated September 13, 2004, to Supplemental
    Indenture No. 3, dated as of October 29, 2003, to Indenture for
    Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between
    the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as
    successor to Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 13,
    2004, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.16

Supplemental Indenture No. 4, dated as of April 27, 2005, to
    Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September 6,
    2002, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust
    Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Company’s Form 8-K filed April 28, 2005, and incorporated
    herein by reference thereto).


.17

Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated as of November 30, 2005, to
    Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September 6,
    2002, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust
    Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the
    Company’s Form 8-K filed November 30, 2005, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.18

Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2006, between the Company
    and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
    November 20, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.19

Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of November 20, 2006,
    between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s
    Form 8-K filed November 20, 2006, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).


.20

Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of July 20, 2007, between
    Health Care REIT, Inc. and The Bank of New York Trust Company,
    N.A. (filed with the SEC as Exhibit 4.1 to Health Care REIT,
    Inc.’s Form 8-K filed July 20, 2007, and incorporated
    herein by reference thereto).




.21

Form of Indenture for Senior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed
    with the Commission as Exhibit 4.9 to the Company’s Form
    S-3 (File No. 333-73936) filed November 21, 2001, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.22

Form of Indenture for Junior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed
    with the Commission as Exhibit 4.10 to the Company’s Form
    S-3 (File No. 333-73936) filed November 21, 2001, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.1

Fourth Amended and Restated Loan Agreement, dated as of August
    6, 2007, by and among Health Care REIT, Inc. and certain of its
    subsidiaries, the banks signatory thereto, KeyBank National
    Association, as administrative agent, Deutsche Bank Securities
    Inc., as syndication agent, and UBS Securities LLC, Bank of
    America, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC,
    Calyon New York Branch and Fifth Third Bank, as documentation
    agents (filed with the SEC as Exhibit 10.2 to Health Care REIT,
    Inc.’s Form 10-Q filed August 9, 2007, and incorporated
    herein by reference thereto).


.2

Health Care REIT, Inc. Interest Rate & Currency Risk
    Management Policy adopted on May 6, 2004 (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
    July 23, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.3

The 1995 Stock Incentive Plan of Health Care REIT, Inc. (filed
    with the Commission as Appendix II to the Company’s
    Proxy Statement for the 1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders,
    filed September 29, 1995, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.4

First Amendment to the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan of Health Care
    REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the
    Company’s Form S-8 (File No. 333-40771) filed November 21,
    1997, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.5

Second Amendment to the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan of Health Care
    REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the
    Company’s Form S-8 (File No. 333-73916) filed November 21,
    2001, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.6

Third Amendment to the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan of Health Care
    REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.15 to the
    Company’s Form 10-K filed March 12, 2004, and incorporated
    herein by reference thereto).*


.7

Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Health Care REIT, Inc.
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
    Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2004, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).*


.8

First Amendment to the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of
    Health Care REIT, Inc. effective April 21, 1998 (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
    May 10, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.9

Health Care REIT, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with
    the Commission as Appendix A to the Company’s Proxy
    Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed
    March 28, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.10

Form of Stock Option Agreement for Executive Officers under the
    1995 Stock Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
    10.17 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 16, 2005, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.11

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for Executive Officers under
    the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.18 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 16,
    2005, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.12

Form of Stock Option Agreement under the Stock Plan for
    Non-Employee Directors (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
    10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q/A filed October 27, 2004,
    and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.13

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement under the Stock Plan for
    Non-Employee Directors (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
    10.20 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 16, 2005, and

incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.14

Form of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights)
    for the Chief Executive Officer under the 2005 Long-Term
    Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.18 to
    the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.15

Form of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights)
    for Executive Officers under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.19 to the
    Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006, and incorporated
    herein by reference thereto).*




.16

Form of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent
    Rights) for the Chief Executive Officer under the 2005 Long-Term
    Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.20 to
    the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.17

Form of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent
    Rights) for Executive Officers under the 2005 Long-Term
    Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.21 to
    the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.18

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for the Chief Executive
    Officer under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 10.22 to the Company’s Form 10-K
    filed March 10, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.19

Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for Executive Officers under
    the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.23 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10,
    2006, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.20

Form of Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee
    Directors under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with
    the Commission as Exhibit 10.24 to the Company’s Form 10-K
    filed March 10, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference
    thereto).*


.21

Restricted Stock Agreement, dated January 22, 2007, by and
    between Health Care REIT and Raymond W. Braun (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
    January 25, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.22

Stock Option Agreement, dated December 20, 2006, between Health
    Care REIT, Inc. and Daniel R. Loftus (filed with the Commission
    as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10,
    2007, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


.23

Third Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated January
    22, 2007, by and between the Company and George L. Chapman
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
    Form 8-K filed January 25, 2007, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).*


.24

Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective
    January 1, 2004, by and between Health Care REIT, Inc. and
    Raymond W. Braun (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.18 to
    the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 12, 2004, and
    incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.25

Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective
    January 1, 2004, by and between Health Care REIT, Inc. and Erin
    C. Ibele (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.19 to the
    Company’s Form 10-K filed March 12, 2004, and incorporated
    herein by reference thereto).*


.26

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective January 1,
    2004, by and between Health Care REIT, Inc. and Charles J.
    Herman, Jr. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.20 to the
    Company’s Form 10-K filed March 12, 2004, and incorporated
    herein by reference thereto).*


.27

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective March 17,
    2006, by and between Health Care REIT, Inc. and Scott A. Estes
    (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s
    Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2006, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).*


.28

Employment Agreement, effective July 1, 2004, by and between
    Health Care REIT, Inc. and Jeffrey H. Miller (filed with the
    Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
    July 23, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.29

Consulting Agreement dated as of September 12, 2006 between the
    Company and Fred S. Klipsch (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form S-4 filed October 13,
    2006, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.30

Consulting Agreement dated as of September 12, 2006 between the
    Company and Frederick L. Farrar (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form S-4 filed October 13,
    2006, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.31

Employment Agreement dated as of September 12, 2006 between the
    Company and Daniel R. Loftus (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form S-4 filed October 13,
    2006, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


.32

Health Care REIT, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
    effective as of January 1, 2001 (filed with the Commission as
    Exhibit 10.19 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10,
    2003, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*




.33

Health Care REIT, Inc. Executive Loan Program, effective as of
    August 1999 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.20 to the
    Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2003, and incorporated
    herein by reference thereto).*


.34

Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each
    director, executive officer and officer of the Company (filed
    with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form
    8-K filed February 18, 2005, and incorporated herein by
    reference thereto).*


.35

Summary of Director Compensation.*


Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (filed with the Commission
    as Exhibit 14 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 12,
    2004, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


Subsidiaries of the Company.


Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public
    accounting firm.


.1

Power of Attorney executed by William C. Ballard, Jr. (Director).


.2

Power of Attorney executed by Pier C. Borra (Director).


.3

Power of Attorney executed by Raymond W. Braun (President and
    Director).


.4

Power of Attorney executed by Thomas J. DeRosa (Director).


.5

Power of Attorney executed by Jeffrey H. Donahue (Director).


.6

Power of Attorney executed by Peter J. Grua (Director).


.7

Power of Attorney executed by Fred S. Klipsch (Director).


.8

Power of Attorney executed by Sharon M. Oster (Director).


.9

Power of Attorney executed by Jeffrey R. Otten (Director).


.10

Power of Attorney executed by R. Scott Trumbull (Director).


.11

Power of Attorney executed by George L. Chapman (Director,
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and Principal
    Executive Officer).


.12

Power of Attorney executed by Scott A. Estes (Senior Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer and Principal Financial
    Officer).


.13

Power of Attorney executed by Paul D. Nungester, Jr. (Vice
    President and Controller and Principal Accounting Officer).


.1

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive
    Officer.


.2

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial
    Officer.


.1

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief
    Executive Officer.


.2

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief
    Financial Officer.

*

Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.

121