10-K


201110-K.htm

FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011

Commission
File No. 1-8923

HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in
its charter)

Delaware

34-1096634

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio


(Address of principal executive office)

(Zip Code)

(419) 247-2800

(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is
a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is
not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to the filing
requirements for at least the past 90 days.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site,
if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter)
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment of this
Form 10-K.

R

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
“large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company”
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting
  company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).  Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the shares of
voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by
reference to the closing sales price of such shares on the New York Stock
Exchange as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently
completed second fiscal quarter was $9,247,925,006.

As of January 31, 2012, the registrant had 192,618,772
shares of common stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s definitive
proxy statement for the annual stockholders’ meeting to be held May 3, 2012,
are incorporated by reference into Part III.

HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

2011 FORM
10-K ANNUAL REPORT

TABLE OF
CONTENTS

PART I

Item 1.

Business

General

Health Care REIT, Inc. is a real estate investment
trust (“REIT”) that has been at the forefront of seniors housing and health
care real estate since the company was founded in 1970.  We are an S&P 500
company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio and our portfolio spans the full spectrum
of seniors housing and health care real estate, including seniors housing
communities, skilled nursing/post-acute facilities, medical office buildings,
inpatient and outpatient medical centers and life science facilities. Our
capital programs, when combined with comprehensive planning, development and
property management services, make us a single-source solution for acquiring,
planning, developing, managing, repositioning and monetizing real estate
assets.  More information is available on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.

Our primary objectives are to protect stockholder
capital and enhance stockholder value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends
to stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments to
stockholders as a result of annual increases in rental and interest income and
portfolio growth. To meet these objectives, we invest across the full spectrum
of seniors housing and health care real estate and diversify our investment
portfolio by property type, customer and geographic location.

Depending upon the availability and cost of external
capital, we believe our liquidity is sufficient to fund operations, meet debt
service obligations (both principal and interest), make dividend distributions
and complete construction projects in process. We also continue to evaluate
opportunities to finance future investments. New investments are generally
funded from temporary borrowings under our unsecured line of credit
arrangement, internally generated cash and the proceeds from sales of real
property. Our investments generate cash from rent and interest receipts,
resident fees and services and principal payments on loans receivable.
Permanent financing for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under
the unsecured line of credit arrangement, has historically been provided
through a combination of public and private offerings of debt and equity
securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt.

References herein to “we,” “us,” “our” or the
“Company” refer to Health Care REIT, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless
specifically noted otherwise.

Portfolio of Properties

The following table summarizes our portfolio as of December
31, 2011:

Investments

Percentage
  of

Number
  of

#
  Beds/Units

Investment
  per

Type
  of Property

(in
  thousands)

Investments

Properties

or
  Sq. Ft.

metric

(1)

States

Seniors housing triple-net

$

4,029,818

28.1%


25,133

units

$

163,293

per unit


Skilled nursing/post-acute

3,527,468

24.6%


39,825

beds

89,997

per bed


Seniors housing operating

2,792,088

19.5%


12,420

units

224,806

per unit


Hospitals

911,482

6.4%


2,165

beds

421,007

per bed


Medical office buildings

(2)

2,727,450

19.0%


11,276,994

sq. ft.


per sq. ft.


Life science buildings

(2)

337,800

2.4%


n/a


Totals

$

14,326,106

100.0%



(1) Investment per metric was computed by using the total
  committed investment amount of $14,609,005,000, which includes net real estate
  investments, our share of investments in unconsolidated entities and unfunded
  construction commitments for which initial funding has commenced which
  amounted to $13,942,350,000, $383,756,000 and $282,899,000, respectively.

(2) Includes our share of investments in unconsolidated
  entities. Please see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for
  additional information.

Property Types

We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate.
We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three business
segments — seniors housing triple-net, seniors housing operating, and medical
facilities.

For additional information regarding business segments, see
Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements.

The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described
in the summary of significant accounting policies (see Note 2 to our
consolidated financial statements).

The following is a summary of our
various property types.


Seniors
Housing Triple-Net

Our seniors
housing triple-net properties include independent living/continuing care
retirement communities, assisted living facilities, Alzheimer’s/dementia
facilities, skilled nursing/post-acute facilities and combinations thereof. We
invest in seniors housing triple-net real estate primarily through acquisitions
and development. Properties are primarily leased under triple-net leases and we
are not involved in property management.  Our properties include stand-alone
facilities that provide one level of service, combination facilities that
provide multiple levels of service, and communities or campuses that provide a
wide range of services.

Independent
Living Facilities.

Independent living facilities are
age-restricted, multifamily properties with central dining facilities that
provide residents access to meals and other services such as housekeeping,
linen service, transportation and social and recreational activities.

Continuing
Care Retirement Communities.

Continuing care retirement communities
include a combination of detached homes, an independent living facility, an
assisted living facility and/or a skilled nursing facility on one campus. These
communities are appealing to residents because there is no need for relocating
when health and medical needs change. Resident payment plans vary, but can
include entrance fees, condominium fees and rental fees. Many of these
communities also charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit,
meals and some health services.

Assisted
Living Facilities

.  Assisted living facilities are state regulated rental
properties that provide the same services as independent living facilities, but
also provide supportive care from trained employees to residents who require
assistance with activities of daily living, including management of
medications, bathing, dressing, toileting, ambulating and eating.

Alzheimer’s/Dementia
Care Facilities.

Certain assisted living facilities may include
state licensed settings that specialize in caring for those afflicted with
Alzheimer’s disease and/or other types of dementia.

Skilled
Nursing/Post-Acute Facilities

.  Skilled nursing/post-acute facilities are
licensed daily rate or rental properties where the majority of individuals
require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are
licensed for Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement and are subject to
triple-net operating leases.  All facilities offer some level of rehabilitation
services.  Some facilities offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac,
orthopedic, dialysis, neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation, which focus on
higher acuity patients.

Our seniors housing triple-net
segment accounted for 45%, 57% and 67% of total revenues (including
discontinued operations and our pro rata share of unconsolidated entities) for
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  We lease 150
facilities to Genesis HealthCare, LLC pursuant to a long-term, triple-net
master lease.  In addition to rent, the master lease requires Genesis to pay
all operating costs, utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs,
maintenance costs and all obligations under the ground leases.  All obligations
under the master lease have been guaranteed by FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC. 
For the year ended December 31, 2011, our lease with Genesis accounted for
approximately 26% of our seniors housing triple-net segment revenues and 12% of
our total revenues.

Seniors
Housing Operating

Our seniors
housing operating properties include independent living facilities, assisted
living facilities, Alzheimer’s facilities and combinations thereof. 
Descriptions of these facility types are provided above under Seniors Housing
Triple-Net.  We invest in seniors housing operating real estate primarily
through acquisitions. Properties are primarily held in consolidated entities with
operating partners, structured to take advantage of the REIT Investment
Diversification Act of 2007 (“RIDEA”).  Our properties include stand-alone
facilities that provide one level of service, combination facilities that
provide multiple levels of service, and communities or campuses that provide a
wide range of services.

Our seniors housing operating
segment accounted for 31%, 7% and 0% of total revenues (including discontinued
operations and our pro rata share of unconsolidated entities) for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  We have partnerships
with Merrill Gardens LLC, Benchmark Senior Living, LLC and Silverado Senior
Living, Inc. to own and operate portfolios of 48, 34 and 19 facilities,
respectively.  In each instance, our partner provides management services to
the properties pursuant to an incentive-based management contract.  We rely on
our partners to effectively and efficiently manage these properties.  The
following table provides information about our seniors housing operating
concentration for the year ended December 31, 2011:

Partner

%
of Segment Revenues

% of Total Revenues

Merrill Gardens LLC                                                                           34%                                                        11%

Benchmark Senior Living, LLC                                                        36%                                                        11%

Silverado Senior Living, Inc.                                                             21%                                                        6%


Medical Facilities

Our medical
facilities include medical office buildings, hospitals and life science buildings. 
Our medical office buildings are typically leased to multiple tenants and
generally require a certain level of property management. Our hospital
investments are typically structured similar to our seniors housing triple-net investments. 
Our life science investments represent investments in an unconsolidated joint
venture entity (see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements).

Medical
Office Buildings

.  The medical office building portfolio consists of health
care related buildings that include physician offices, ambulatory surgery
centers, diagnostic facilities, outpatient services and/or labs. Our portfolio
has a strong affiliation with health systems: Approximately 87% of our medical
office building portfolio is affiliated with health systems by having buildings
on hospital campuses or serving as satellite locations for the health system
and their physicians.

Hospitals

. 
Our hospitals generally include acute care hospitals, inpatient rehabilitation
hospitals, and long-term acute care hospitals. Acute care hospitals provide a
wide range of inpatient and outpatient services, including, but not limited to,
surgery, rehabilitation, therapy and clinical laboratories. Inpatient
rehabilitation hospitals provide inpatient services for patients with intensive
rehabilitation needs. Long-term acute care hospitals provide inpatient services
for patients with complex medical conditions that require more intensive care,
monitoring or emergency support than is available in most skilled nursing
facilities.

Life Science
Buildings

.  The life science building portfolio consists of laboratory and
office facilities specifically designed and constructed for use by
biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies.  These facilities, located adjacent
to The Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which is a well established
market known for pharmaceutical and biotechnology research, are similar to
commercial office buildings with advanced HVAC, ventilation, electrical and
mechanical systems.

Our medical facilities segment
accounted for 24%, 35% and 33% of total revenues (including discontinued
operations and our pro rata share of unconsolidated entities) for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Investments

We invest in
seniors housing and health care real estate primarily through acquisitions and
developments. For additional information regarding acquisition and development
activity, please see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.  We
diversify our investment portfolio by property type, customer and geographic
location. In determining whether to invest in a property, we focus on the
following: (1) the experience of the obligor’s management team;
(2) the historical and projected financial and operational performance of
the property; (3) the credit of the obligor; (4) the security for the
lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of the building and its location;
and (6) the capital committed to the property by the obligor. We conduct
market research and analysis for all potential investments. In addition, we
review the value of all properties, the interest rates and covenant
requirements of any facility-level debt to be assumed by us at the time of the
acquisition and the anticipated sources of repayment of any of the obligor’s existing
debt that is not to be assumed by us at the time of the acquisition.

We monitor our investments through a variety of methods
determined by the type of property. Our asset management process for seniors
housing triple-net properties generally includes review of monthly financial
statements and other operating data for each property, periodic review of
obligor creditworthiness, periodic property inspections and review of covenant
compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and
other collateral. Our internal property management division actively manages
and monitors the medical office building portfolio with a comprehensive process
including tenant relations, tenant lease expirations, the mix of health service
providers, hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital
improvement needs and market conditions among other things. In monitoring our
portfolio, our personnel use a proprietary database to collect and analyze
property-specific data. Additionally, we conduct extensive research to
ascertain industry trends and risks.

Through asset management and research, we evaluate the
operating environment in each property’s market to determine whether payment
risk is likely to increase. When we identify unacceptable levels of payment
risk, we seek to mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk. We categorize the
risk as obligor, property or market risk. For obligor risk, we typically find a
substitute operator/tenant to run the property. For property risk, we usually
work with the operator/tenant to institute property-level management changes to
address the risk. Finally, for market risk, we often encourage an obligor to
change its capital structure, including refinancing the property or raising
additional equity. Through these asset management and research efforts, we are
generally able to intervene at an early stage to address payment risk, and in
so doing, support both the collectability of revenue and the value of our
investment.

Depending upon market conditions, we believe that new
investments will be available in the future with spreads over our cost of
capital that will generate appropriate returns to our stockholders.


Investment Types

Real Property.

Our
properties are primarily comprised of land, building, improvements and related
rights.  Our hospitals and seniors housing triple-net properties are generally
leased to operators under long-term operating leases.  The leases generally
have a fixed contractual term of 12 to 15 years and contain one or more
five to 15-year renewal options. Certain of our leases also contain purchase
options.  Most of our rents are received under triple-net leases requiring the
operator to pay rent and all additional charges incurred in the operation of
the leased property. The tenants are required to repair, rebuild and maintain
the leased properties. Substantially all of these operating leases are designed
with either fixed or contingent escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed
annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over
the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income
related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based
on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period.

At December 31, 2011, approximately 93% of our hospitals
and seniors housing triple-net properties were subject to master leases. A
master lease is a lease of multiple properties to one tenant entity under a
single lease agreement. From time to time, we may acquire additional properties
that are then leased to the tenant under the master lease. The tenant is
required to make one monthly payment that represents rent on all the properties
that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the master lease tenant can
exercise its right to purchase the properties or to renew the master lease only
with respect to all leased properties at the same time. This bundling feature
benefits us because the tenant cannot limit the purchase or renewal to the
better performing properties and terminate the leasing arrangement with respect
to the poorer performing properties. This spreads our risk among the entire
group of properties within the master lease. The bundling feature should provide
a similar advantage if the master lease tenant is in bankruptcy. Subject to
certain restrictions, a debtor in bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject
each of its leases. It is our intent that a tenant in bankruptcy would be
required to assume or reject the master lease as a whole, rather than deciding
on a property by property basis.

Our medical office building portfolio is primarily
self-managed and consists principally of multi-tenant properties leased to
health care providers. Our leases have favorable lease terms that typically
include fixed increasers and some form of operating expense reimbursement by
the tenant. As of December 31, 2011, 86.6% of our portfolio included leases
with full pass through, 11.6% with a partial expense reimbursement (modified
gross) and 1.8% with no expense reimbursement (gross). Our medical office
building leases are non-cancellable operating leases that have a weighted
average remaining term of 8.4 years at December 31, 2011 and are often credit
enhanced by guaranties and/or letters of credit.

Construction.

We
currently provide for the construction of properties for tenants generally as
part of long-term operating leases. We capitalize certain interest costs
associated with funds used to pay for the construction of properties owned by
us. The amount capitalized is based upon the amount advanced during the
construction period using the rate of interest that approximates our cost of
financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. We also
typically charge a transaction fee at the commencement of construction which we
defer and amortize to income over the term of the resulting lease. The
construction period commences upon funding and terminates upon the earlier of
the completion of the applicable property or the end of a specified period.
During the construction period, we advance funds to the tenants in accordance
with agreed upon terms and conditions which require, among other things,
periodic site visits by a Company representative. During the construction
period, we generally require an additional credit enhancement in the form of
payment and performance bonds and/or completion guaranties. At December 31,
2011, we had outstanding construction investments of $189,502,000 and were
committed to providing additional funds of approximately $282,899,000 to
complete construction for investment properties.

Real Estate Loans.

Our real estate loans are typically structured to provide us
with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees and are
generally secured by a first, second or third mortgage lien, leasehold
mortgage, corporate guaranties and/or personal guaranties. At December 31,
2011, we had outstanding real estate loans of $292,507,000. The interest yield
averaged approximately 9% per annum on our outstanding real estate loan
balances. Our yield on real estate loans depends upon a number of factors,
including the stated interest rate, average principal amount outstanding during
the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments. The real estate loans
outstanding at December 31, 2011 are generally subject to three to 20-year
terms with principal amortization schedules and/or balloon payments of the
outstanding principal balances at the end of the term. Typically, real estate
loans are cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate
loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its
affiliates.

Principles
of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities that we
control, through voting rights or other means. All material intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

At inception of the joint venture transactions, we
identify entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting
rights (“variable interest entities” or “VIEs”) and determine which business
enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A variable interest
entity is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity
investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest, or
(ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that
entity's activities without additional subordinated financial support. We
consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary
beneficiary.  Accounting Standards


Codification (“ASC”)
810 requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining
whether or not a VIE will need to be consolidated on a continuous basis. This
evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the
activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact that
entity’s economic performance.

For investments in joint ventures, we evaluate the type
of rights held by the limited partner(s), which may preclude consolidation in
circumstances in which the sole general partner would otherwise consolidate the
limited partnership. The assessment of limited partners' rights and their
impact on the presumption of control over a limited partnership by the sole
general partner should be made when an investor becomes the sole general partner and should be reassessed if (i) there is a change to the terms or in the
exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, (ii) the sole
general

partner increases or decreases its ownership in the limited partnership interests, or
(iii) there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding
limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing
members of limited liability companies.

Investments
in Unconsolidated Entities

Investments in less than majority owned entities where
our interests represent a general partnership interest but substantive
participating rights or substantive kick-out rights have been granted to the
limited partners, or where our interests do not represent the general partnership
interest and we do not control the major operating and financial policies of
the entity, are reported under the equity method of accounting. Under the
equity method of accounting, our share of the investee’s earnings or losses is
included in our consolidated results of operations. To the extent that our cost
basis is different from the basis reflected at the entity level, the basis
difference is generally amortized over the lives of the related assets and
liabilities, and such amortization is included in our share of equity in
earnings of the entity.  The initial carrying value of investments in
unconsolidated entities is based on the amount paid to purchase the entity
interest or the estimated fair value of the assets prior to the sale of interests
in the entity. Other equity investments include an investment in
available-for-sale securities and an investment in a private company where we
do not have the ability to exercise influence over the company, so the
investment is accounted for under the cost method. These equity investments
represented a minimal ownership interest in these companies. We evaluate our
equity method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the
estimated fair value of the equity method investment to its carrying value.
When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment
below its carrying value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.

Borrowing
Policies

We utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments.
Our debt and equity levels are determined by management to maintain a
conservative credit profile. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed
rate public debt with long-term maturities to approximate the maturities on our
leases and loans. For short-term purposes, we may borrow on our unsecured line
of credit arrangement. We replace these borrowings with long-term capital such
as senior unsecured notes, common stock or preferred stock. When terms are
deemed favorable, we may invest in properties subject to existing mortgage
indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for unleveraged
properties in which we have invested or may refinance properties acquired on a
leveraged basis. In our agreements with our lenders, we are subject to
restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.

Competition

We compete with
other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships, private equity
and hedge fund investors, banks, insurance companies, finance/investment
companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and tax-exempt bond funds,
health care operators, developers and other investors in the acquisition,
development, leasing and financing of health care and seniors housing
properties. Some of our competitors are larger with greater resources and lower
costs of capital than us. Increased competition inhibits our ability to
identify and successfully complete investments. We compete for investments
based on a number of factors including rates, financings offered, underwriting
criteria and reputation. Our ability to successfully compete is also impacted
by economic and population trends, availability of acceptable investment
opportunities, our ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms,
availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs and new and
existing laws and regulations.

The
operators/tenants of our properties compete on a local and regional basis with
operators/tenants of properties that provide comparable services.
Operators/tenants compete for patients and residents based on a number of
factors including quality of care, reputation, physical appearance of
properties, services offered, family preferences, physicians, staff and price.
We also face competition from other health care facilities for tenants, such as
physicians and other health care providers that provide comparable facilities
and services.

For additional
information on the risks associated with our business, please see
“Item 1A — Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

As of December
31, 2011, we had 308 employees.


Customer Concentrations

The following
table summarizes certain information about our customer concentrations as of December
31, 2011 (dollars in thousands):

Number
  of

Total

Percent
  of

Concentration by investment:

(1)

Properties

Investment

(2)

Investment

(3)

Genesis HealthCare, LLC


$

2,466,243

18%

Merrill Gardens, LLC


1,132,399

8%

Benchmark Senior Living, LLC


883,681

6%

Brandywine Senior Living, LLC


719,509

5%

Senior Living Communities, LLC


604,079

4%

Remaining portfolio


8,136,439

59%

Totals


$

13,942,350

100%

_____________________

(1)

Merrill Gardens and Benchmark are
in our seniors housing operating segment whereas the other top five customers
are in our senior housing triple-net segment.

(2)

Excludes our share of investments
in unconsolidated entities.  Please see Note 7 for additional information.

(3)

Investments with our top five
customers comprised 32% of total investments at December 31, 2010.

Certain Government
Regulations

Health
Law Matters — Generally

Typically, operators of seniors housing facilities do
not receive significant funding from government programs and are largely
subject to state laws, as opposed to federal laws. Operators of skilled nursing
facilities and hospitals do receive significant funding from government
programs, and these facilities are subject to the federal and state laws that
regulate the type and quality of the medical and/or nursing care provided,
ancillary services (

e.g.

, respiratory, occupational, physical and
infusion therapies), qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing
staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment, reimbursement and rate
setting and operating policies.  In addition, as described below, operators of
these facilities are subject to extensive laws and regulations pertaining to
health care fraud and abuse, including, but not limited to, the Federal Anti-kickback
Statute, the Federal Stark Law, and the Federal False Claims Act, as well as
comparable state law counterparts.  Hospitals, physician group practice
clinics, and other health care providers that operate in our portfolio are
subject to extensive federal, state, and local licensure, registration,
certification, and inspection laws, regulations, and industry standards. Our
tenants’ failure to comply with any of these, and other, laws could result in
loss of accreditation; denial of reimbursement; imposition of fines;
suspension, decertification, or exclusion from federal and state health care
programs; loss of license; or closure of the facility.

Licensing
and Certification

The primary regulations that affect seniors housing facilities
with assisted living are state licensing and registration laws. In granting and
renewing these licenses, the state regulatory agencies consider numerous
factors relating to a property’s physical plant and operations including, but
not limited to, admission and discharge standards, staffing, and training. A
decision to grant or renew a license is also affected by a property owner’s
record with respect to patient and consumer rights, medication guidelines, and
rules.  Certain of the seniors housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us
may require the resident to pay an entrance or upfront fee, a portion of which
may be refundable.  These entrance fee communities are subject to significant
state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each
facility’s financial condition; establishment and monitoring of reserve
requirements, and other financial restrictions; the right of residents to
cancel their contracts within a specified period of time; lien rights in favor
of residents; restrictions on change of ownership; and similar matters.  Such
oversight, and the rights of residents within these entrance fee communities,
may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such
facilities, and, therefore, may adversely affect us.

Certain health care facilities are subject to a
variety of licensure and certificate of need (“CON”) laws and regulations. 
Where applicable, CON laws generally require, among other requirements, that a
facility demonstrate the need for (1) constructing a new facility, (2) adding
beds or expanding an existing facility, (3) investing in major capital
equipment or adding new services, (4) changing the ownership or control of an
existing licensed facility, or (5) terminating services that have been
previously approved through the CON process.  Certain state CON laws and
regulations may restrict the ability of operators to add new properties or
expand an existing facility’s size or services. In addition, CON laws may
constrain the ability of an operator to transfer responsibility for operating a
particular facility to a new operator.  If we have to replace a property
operator who is excluded from participating in a federal or state health care
program (as discussed below), our ability to replace the operator may be
affected by a particular state’s CON laws, regulations, and applicable guidance
governing changes in provider control.


With respect to licensure,
generally our skilled nursing facilities and acute care facilities are required
to be licensed and certified for participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and other
federal health care programs.  This generally requires license renewals and
compliance surveys on an annual or bi-annual basis. The failure of our
operators to maintain or renew any required license or regulatory approval as
well as the failure of our operators to correct serious deficiencies identified
in a compliance survey could require those operators to discontinue operations
at a property.  In addition, if a property is found to be out of compliance
with Medicare, Medicaid, or other health care program conditions of
participation, the property operator may be excluded from participating in
those government health care programs.  Any such occurrence may impair an
operators’ ability to meet their financial obligations to us.  If we have to
replace an excluded property operator, our ability to replace the operator may
be affected by federal and state laws, regulations, and applicable guidance
governing changes in provider control. This may result in payment delays, an inability
to find a replacement operator, a significant working capital commitment from
us to a new operator or other difficulties.

Reimbursement

Seniors Housing Facilities.

Approximately 53% of our overall revenues
for the year ended December 31, 2011 were attributable to seniors housing facilities. 
The majority of the revenues received by the operators of our seniors housing facilities
are from private pay sources. The remaining revenue source is primarily
Medicaid under certain waiver programs. As a part of the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act (“OBRA”) of 1981, Congress established a waiver program
enabling some states to offer Medicaid reimbursement to assisted living providers
as an alternative to institutional long-term care services. The provisions of
OBRA and the subsequent OBRA Acts of 1987 and 1990 permit states to seek a
waiver from typical Medicaid requirements to develop cost-effective
alternatives to long-term care, including Medicaid payments for assisted living
and home health. As of December 31, 2011, seven of our 38 seniors housing operators
received Medicaid reimbursement pursuant to Medicaid waiver programs. For the
twelve months ended September 30, 2011, approximately 5% of the revenues
at our seniors housing facilities were from Medicaid reimbursement. There can
be no guarantee that a state Medicaid program operating pursuant to a waiver
will be able to maintain its waiver status.

Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the
facilities and are determined by local market conditions and operating costs.
Generally, facilities receive a higher payment per day for a private pay
resident than for a Medicaid beneficiary who requires a comparable level of
care. The level of Medicaid reimbursement varies from state to state.  Thus,
the revenues generated by operators of our assisted living facilities may be
adversely affected by payor mix, acuity level, changes in Medicaid eligibility,
and reimbursement levels.  In addition, a state could lose its Medicaid waiver
and no longer be permitted to utilize Medicaid dollars to reimburse for
assisted living services. Changes in revenues could in turn have a material
adverse effect on an operator’s ability to meet its obligations to us.

Skilled Nursing Facilities and Hospitals.

Skilled nursing facilities and hospitals
typically receive most of their revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, with the balance representing reimbursement payments from private
payors, including private insurers.  Consequently, changes in federal or state
reimbursement policies may also adversely affect an operator’s ability to cover
its expenses, including our rent or debt service. Skilled nursing facilities
and hospitals are subject to periodic pre- and post-payment reviews, and other
audits by federal and state authorities.  A review or audit of a property
operator’s claims could result in recoupments, denials, or delay of payments in
the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the operator’s
ability to meet its financial obligations to us.  Due to the significant
judgments and estimates inherent in payor settlement accounting, no assurance
can be given as to the adequacy of any reserves maintained by our property
operators to cover potential adjustments to reimbursements, or to cover
settlements made to payors.  In fact, in December 2010, the Department of
Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) released a report
focusing on skilled nursing facilities’ billing practices for Medicare Part A
payments, and found that between 2006-2008 skilled nursing facilities
increasingly billed for higher paying Resource Utilization Groups (“RUGs”), the
payment classification mechanism for the Medicare program, even though
beneficiary characteristics remained largely unchanged.  In particular, from
2006 to 2008, OIG found that the percentage of RUGs for ultra high therapy
increased from 17% to 28%, despite the fact that beneficiaries’ ages and
diagnoses at admission were largely unchanged during that time period. As a
result of the recent attention on skilled nursing billing practices and ongoing
government pressure to reduce spending by government health care programs,
government health care programs have reduced RUG payments that may be made to
skilled nursing facilities for 2012 as discussed in further detail below, and,
as a result, an operator’s ability to meet its financial obligations to us may
be impaired.  Further reductions in such payments may significantly impair an
operator’s ability to meet its financial obligations to us.

Medicare Reimbursement and Skilled Nursing Facilities.

For the twelve months ended September 30,
2011, approximately 32% of the revenues at our skilled nursing facilities
(which comprised 22% of our overall revenues for the year ended December 31,
2011) were paid by Medicare. Skilled nursing facilities are reimbursed
under the Medicare Skilled Nursing Facility Prospective Payment System (“SNF
PPS”). There is a risk that some skilled nursing facilities’ costs will exceed
the fixed payments under the SNF PPS, and there is also a risk that payments
under the SNF PPS may be set below the costs to provide certain items and
services, which could result in immediate financial difficulties for skilled
nursing facilities, and could cause operators to seek bankruptcy protection. Skilled
nursing facilities have faced these types of difficulties since the
implementation of the SNF PPS.


The Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”), an agency of the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), made a negative
payment update for skilled nursing facilities for fiscal year 2012.  For fiscal
year 2012, skilled nursing facilities received an 11.1% decrease, or $3.87
billion, in RUG payments, resulting from a 2.7% market basket update less a 1%
multi-factor productivity adjustment and a 12.6% reduction, or $4.47 billion,
to recalibrate the RUGs-IV therapy payment rates. CMS announced that the
reasons for this rate reduction were to correct for the unintended spike in
payment levels, particularly those associated with higher paying RUGs, and to
align reimbursement with cost. In addition, on November 21, 2011, the Joint
Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, which was created by the Budget Control
Act of 2011, concluded its work, and issued a statement that it was not able to
make a bipartisan agreement, thus triggering the sequestration process.  The
sequestration process will result in spending reductions starting in 2013,
including Medicare cuts.

In addition, Section 5008 of the Deficit
Reduction Act of 2005 directed the Secretary of HHS to conduct a Post Acute
Care Payment Reform Demonstration (“PAC-PRD”) program, for a three year period,
beginning January 1, 2008, to assess the costs and outcomes of patients
discharged from hospitals in a variety of post-acute care settings, including
skilled nursing facilities. The demonstration program’s results and
recommendations were reported to Congress in a January 2012 report.  The
results and recommendations could lead to future changes in Medicare coverage,
reimbursement, and reporting requirements for post-acute care.

The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 mandated caps on
Medicare reimbursement for certain therapy services. However, Congress imposed
various moratoriums on the implementation of those caps. For 2012, the annual
payment cap of $1,880 per patient applies to occupational therapy and a
separate $1,880 cap applies to speech and physical therapy. Congress has
permitted patients exceeding the cap to obtain additional Medicare coverage
through a waiver program if the therapy is deemed medically necessary. The
waiver program was historically extended and was most recently extended through
February 29, 2012 by the Temporary Payroll Tax Cut Continuation Act of 2011.

If the exception expires, patients will need to use
private funds to pay for the cost of therapy above the caps.  If patients are
unable to satisfy their out-of-pocket cost responsibility to reimburse an
operator for services rendered, the operator’s ability to meet its financial
obligations to us could be adversely impacted.

Medicare Reimbursement and Hospitals.

For the twelve months ended
September 30, 2011, approximately 52% of the revenues at our hospitals
(which comprised 5% of our overall revenues for the year ended December 31,
2011) were from Medicare reimbursements. Hospitals, generally, are
reimbursed by Medicare under the Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System
(“PPS”), the Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System (“OPPS”), the Long
Term Care Hospital Prospective Payment System (“LTCH PPS”), or the Inpatient
Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment System (“IRF PPS”). Acute care
hospitals provide a wide range of inpatient and outpatient services including,
but not limited to, surgery, rehabilitation, therapy, and clinical laboratory
services. Long-term acute care hospitals provide inpatient services for
patients with medical conditions that are often complex and that require more
intensive care, monitoring or emergency support than that available in most
skilled nursing facilities. Inpatient rehabilitation facilities provide
intensive rehabilitation services in an inpatient setting for patients
requiring at least three hours of rehabilitation services a day.

With respect to Medicare’s PPS for regular hospitals,
reimbursement for inpatient services is made on the basis of a fixed,
prospective rate, based on the principal diagnosis of the patient.  Hospitals
may be at risk to the extent that their costs in treating a specific case
exceed the fixed payment amount. The diagnosis related group (“DRG”)
reimbursement system was updated in 2008 to expand the number of DRGs from 538
to 745 in order to better distinguish more severe conditions. One additional
DRG was added in 2009, for a new total of 746. In some cases, a hospital might
be able to qualify for an outlier payment if the hospital’s losses exceed a
threshold.

President Obama’s proposed budget for fiscal year
2013, which begins October 1, 2012, was released on February 13, 2012 and has
the potential to further impact Medicare reimbursement rates by proposing to
cut Medicare reimbursement to a host of providers, including hospitals, home
health agencies, and nursing homes.  These proposals, if implemented, could
adversely affect our operators and tenants.

Medicaid Reimbursement.

Medicaid is a major payor source for residents
in our skilled nursing facilities and hospitals. For the twelve months ended
September 30, 2011, approximately 48% of the revenues of our skilled
nursing facilities and 11% of the revenues of our hospitals were attributable to
Medicaid reimbursement payments. The federal and state governments share
responsibility for financing Medicaid. The federal matching rate, known as the
Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (“FMAP”), varies by state based on
relative per capita income, but is at least 50% in all states. On average,
Medicaid is the largest component of total state spending, representing
approximately 21% of total state spending. The percentage of Medicaid dollars
used for long-term care varies from state to state, due in part to different
ratios of elderly population and eligibility requirements. Within certain
federal guidelines, states have a fairly wide range of discretion to determine
eligibility and reimbursement methodology.  Many states reimburse long-term
care facilities using fixed daily rates, which are applied prospectively based
on patient acuity and the historical


costs incurred in
providing patient care. Reasonable costs typically include allowances for
staffing, administrative and general expenses, property, and equipment (

e.g.

,
real estate taxes, depreciation and fair rental).

In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse the
cost of providing skilled nursing services. Certain states are attempting to
slow the rate of growth in Medicaid expenditures by freezing rates or
restricting eligibility and benefits. As of the beginning of state fiscal year
2011, states in which we have skilled nursing property investments held rates
flat on average for the year. Our skilled nursing portfolio’s average Medicaid
rate will likely vary throughout the year as states continue to make interim
changes to their budgets and Medicaid funding. In addition, Medicaid
reimbursement rates may decline if revenues in a particular state are not
sufficient to fund budgeted expenditures.  President Obama’s proposed fiscal
year budget for 2013, released on February 13, 2012, includes a proposal to
place new limits on state provider taxes that are used to pay the state share
of Medicaid and has the potential to further impact Medicaid reimbursement
rates.  The President’s budget includes a proposal to phase down the Medicaid
provider tax, a tax paid by health care providers to help fund state Medicaid
programs, beginning with a reduction from the current law level of 6.0% to 4.5%
in fiscal year 2015.  The President’s budget also includes a proposal to
replace the Federal matching rate for state Medicaid and the Children’s Health
Insurance Program with a single matching rate specific to each state.  If the
President’s proposals are implemented, the various state Medicaid programs will
receive less funds, which could adversely affect our operators and tenants.

The Medicare Part D drug benefit became effective
January 1, 2006. Since that date, low-income Medicare beneficiaries
(eligible for both Medicare and full Medicaid benefits), including those
nursing home residents who are dually eligible for both programs, may enroll
and receive outpatient prescription drugs under Medicare, not Medicaid.
Medicare Part D has resulted in increased administrative responsibilities
for nursing home operators because enrollment in Medicare Part D is
voluntary and residents must choose between multiple prescription drug plans. 
Operators may also experience increased expenses to the extent that a particular
drug prescribed to a patient is not listed on the Medicare Part D drug
plan formulary for the plan in which the patient is enrolled.

The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care
facilities continue to evolve.  Federal and state authorities have considered
and may seek to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may
negatively impact health care property operations.  The impact of any such
changes, if implemented, may result in a material adverse effect on our skilled
nursing and hospital property operations. No assurance can be given that
current revenue sources or levels will be maintained.  Accordingly, there can
be no assurance that payments under a government health care program are
currently, or will be in the future, sufficient to fully reimburse the property
operators for their operating and capital expenses.  As a result, an operator’s
ability to meet its financial obligations to us could be adversely impacted.

Finally,

the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act (“PPACA”) and the Health Care and Education
Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amends the PPACA (collectively, the “Health
Reform Laws”) (further discussed below)

may have a significant impact on
Medicare, Medicaid, other federal health care programs, and private insurers,
which impact the reimbursement amounts received by skilled nursing facilities
and other health care providers. The Health Reform Laws could have a
substantial and material adverse effect on all parties directly or indirectly
involved in the health care system.

Other
Related Laws

Skilled nursing facilities and hospitals (and seniors
housing facilities that receive Medicaid payments) are subject to federal,
state, and local laws, regulations, and applicable guidance that govern the
operations and financial and other arrangements that may be entered into by
health care providers. Certain of these laws prohibit direct or indirect
payments of any kind for the purpose of inducing or encouraging the referral of
patients for medical products or services reimbursable by government health
care programs. Other laws require providers to furnish only medically necessary
services and submit to the government valid and accurate statements for each
service. Still, other laws require providers to comply with a variety of
safety, health and other requirements relating to the condition of the licensed
property and the quality of care provided.  Sanctions for violations of these
laws, regulations, and other applicable guidance may include, but are not
limited to, criminal and/or civil penalties and fines, loss of licensure,
immediate termination of government payments, and exclusion from any government
health care program. In certain circumstances, violation of these rules (such
as those prohibiting abusive and fraudulent behavior) with respect to one
property may subject other facilities under common control or ownership to
sanctions, including exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, as well as other government health care programs.  In the ordinary
course of its business, a property operator is regularly subjected to
inquiries, investigations, and audits by the federal and state agencies that
oversee these laws and regulations.

All health care providers, including, but not limited
to skilled nursing facilities and hospitals (and seniors housing facilities that
receives Medicaid payments) are also subject to the Federal Anti-kickback
Statute, which generally prohibits persons from offering, providing,
soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce either the referral of an
individual or the furnishing of a good or service for which payment may be made
under a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. Skilled
nursing facilities and hospitals are also subject to the Federal Ethics in
Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the Stark Law. The Stark
Law generally prohibits the submission of claims to Medicare for payment if the
claim results from a physician referral for certain designated services and the
physician has a financial relationship with the health service provider that
does not qualify under one of


the exceptions for a
financial relationship under the Stark Law. Similar prohibitions on physician
self-referrals and submission of claims apply to state Medicaid programs.
Further, health care providers, including, but not limited to, skilled nursing
facilities and hospitals (and seniors housing facilities that receive Medicaid
payments), are subject to substantial financial penalties under the Civil
Monetary Penalties Act and the Federal False Claims Act and, in particular,
actions under the Federal False Claims Act’s “whistleblower” provisions.
Private enforcement of health care fraud has increased due in large part to
amendments to the Federal False Claims Act that encourage private individuals
to sue on behalf of the government. These whistleblower suits brought by
private individuals, known as qui tam actions, may be filed by almost anyone,
including present and former patients, nurses and other employees.  Such
whistleblower actions have been brought against nursing facilities on the basis
of the alleged failure of the nursing facility to meet applicable regulations
relating to its operations.  Significantly, if a claim is successfully
adjudicated, the Federal False Claims Act provides for treble damages up to
$11,000 per claim.

Prosecutions, investigations, or whistleblower actions
could have a material adverse effect on a property operator’s liquidity,
financial condition, and operations, which could adversely affect the ability
of the operator to meet its financial obligations to us.  Finally, various
state false claim act and anti-kickback laws may also apply to each property
operator. Violation of any of the foregoing statutes can result in criminal and/or
civil penalties that could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an
operator to meet its financial obligations to us.

Other legislative developments, including the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), have greatly
expanded the definition of health care fraud and related offenses and broadened
its scope to include private health care plans in addition to government
payors. Congress also has greatly increased funding for the Department of
Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Office of the Inspector
General of the Department of Health and Human Services to audit, investigate
and prosecute suspected health care fraud.  Moreover, a significant portion of
the billions in health care fraud recoveries over the past several years has
also been returned to government agencies to further fund their fraud
investigation and prosecution efforts.

Additionally, other HIPAA provisions and regulations
provide for communication of health information through standard electronic
transaction formats and for the privacy and security of health information. In
order to comply with the regulations, health care providers often must
undertake significant operational and technical implementation efforts. 
Operators also may face significant financial exposure if they fail to maintain
the privacy and security of medical records and other personal health
information about individuals. The Health Information Technology for Economic
and Clinical Health (“HITECH”) Act, passed in February 2009, strengthened the
HHS Secretary’s authority to impose civil money penalties for HIPAA violations
occurring after February 18, 2009. HITECH directs the HHS Secretary to
provide for periodic audits to ensure covered entities and their business associates
(as that term is defined under HIPAA) comply with the applicable HITECH
requirements, increasing the likelihood that a HIPAA violation will result in
an enforcement action. CMS issued an interim Final Rule which conformed HIPAA
enforcement regulations to the HITECH Act, increasing the maximum penalty for
multiple violations of a single requirement or prohibition to
$1.5 million.  Higher penalties may accrue for violations of multiple
requirements or prohibitions.  HIPAA violations are also potentially subject to
criminal penalties.

In November 2002, CMS began an ongoing national
Nursing Home Quality Initiative (“NHQI”). Under this initiative, historical
survey information, the NHQI Pilot Evaluation Report and the NHQI Overview is
made available to the public on-line. The NHQI website provides consumer and
provider information regarding the quality of care in nursing homes. The data
allows consumers, providers, states, and researchers to compare quality
information that shows how well nursing homes are caring for their residents’
physical and clinical needs. The posted nursing home quality measures come from
resident assessment data that nursing homes routinely collect on the residents
at specified intervals during their stay. If the operators of nursing
facilities are unable to achieve quality of care ratings that are comparable or
superior to those of their competitors, they may lose market share to other
facilities, reducing their revenues and adversely impacting their ability to
make rental payments.

Finally, government investigations and enforcement
actions brought against the health care industry have increased dramatically
over the past several years and are expected to continue. Some of these
enforcement actions represent novel legal theories and expansions in the
application of the Federal False Claims Act. The costs for an operator of a
health care property associated with both defending such enforcement actions
and the undertakings in settling these actions can be substantial and could
have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its
obligations to us.

Taxation

Federal
Income Tax Considerations

The following summary of the taxation of the Company
and the material federal tax consequences to the holders of our debt and equity
securities is for general information only and is not tax advice. This summary
does not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to certain types
of holders of stock or securities (including, but not limited to, insurance
companies, tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers,
persons holding shares of common stock as part of a hedging, integrated
conversion, or


constructive sale transaction or a
straddle, traders in securities that use a mark-to-market method of accounting
for their securities, investors in pass-through entities and foreign
corporations and persons who are not citizens or residents of the United
States).

This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in light of your particular
investment or other circumstances. In addition, this summary does not discuss
any state or local income taxation or foreign income taxation or other tax
consequences. This summary is based on current U.S. federal income tax
law. Subsequent developments in U.S. federal income tax law, including
changes in law or differing interpretations, which may be applied
retroactively, could have a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax
consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our securities as set forth
in this summary. Before you purchase our securities, you should consult your
own tax advisor regarding the particular U.S. federal, state, local,
foreign and other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our
securities.

General

We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment
trust (a “REIT”) commencing with our first taxable year. We intend to continue
to operate in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no guarantee
that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for subsequent years.
Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety
of qualification tests imposed under federal income tax law with respect to
income, assets, distribution level and diversity of share ownership as
discussed below under “— Qualification as a REIT.” There can be no
assurance that we will be owned and organized and will operate in a manner so
as to qualify or remain qualified.

In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general,
we will not be subject to federal income tax on that portion of our REIT
taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders. We may,
however, be subject to tax at normal corporate rates on any taxable income or
capital gain not distributed. If we elect to retain and pay income tax on our
net long-term capital gain, stockholders are required to include their
proportionate share of our undistributed long-term capital gain in income, but
they will receive a refundable credit for their share of any taxes paid by us
on such gain.

Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to
federal income and excise tax as follows:

•     To the extent that we do not distribute all of
our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT
taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed
amount at regular corporate tax rates;

•     We may be subject to the “alternative minimum
tax” (the “AMT”) on certain tax preference items to the extent that the AMT
exceeds our regular tax;

•     If we have net income from the sale or other
disposition of “foreclosure property” that is held primarily for sale to
customers in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income
from foreclosure property, such income will be taxed at the highest corporate
rate;

•     Any net income from prohibited transactions
(which are, in general, sales or other dispositions of property held primarily
for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other than
dispositions of foreclosure property and dispositions of property due to an
involuntary conversion) will be subject to a 100% tax;

•     If we fail to satisfy either the 75% or 95%
gross income tests (as discussed below), but nonetheless maintain our
qualification as a REIT because certain other requirements are met, we will be
subject to a 100% tax on an amount equal to (1) the gross income
attributable to the greater of (i) 75% of our gross income over the amount
of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75% gross income test (discussed
below) or (ii) 95% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross
income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (discussed below) multiplied
by (2) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability;

•     If we fail to distribute during each year at
least the sum of (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year,
(2) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year (other than
capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any
undistributed taxable income from preceding periods, we will be subject to a 4%
excise tax on the excess of such required distribution over amounts actually
distributed; and

•     We will be subject to a 100% tax on the amount
of any rents from real property, deductions or excess interest paid to us by
any of our “taxable REIT subsidiaries” that would be reduced through
reallocation under certain federal income tax principles in order to more
clearly reflect income of the taxable REIT subsidiary. See
“— Qualification as a REIT — Investments in Taxable REIT
Subsidiaries.”

•     We may be subject to the corporate “alternative
minimum tax” on any items of tax preference, including any deductions of net
operating losses.


If we acquire any assets
from a corporation, which is or has been a “C” corporation, in a carryover
basis transaction, we could be liable for specified liabilities that are
inherited from the “C” corporation. A “C” corporation is generally defined as a
corporation that is required to pay full corporate level federal income tax. If
we recognize gain on the disposition of the assets during the ten-year period
beginning on the date on which the assets were acquired by us, then, to the
extent of the assets’ “built-in gain” (i.e., the excess of the fair market
value of the asset over the adjusted tax basis in the asset, in each case
determined as of the beginning of the ten-year period), we will be subject to
tax on the gain at the highest regular corporate rate applicable. The results
described in this paragraph with respect to the recognition of built-in gain
assume that the built-in gain assets, at the time the built-in gain assets were
subject to a conversion transaction (either where a “C” corporation elected
REIT status or a REIT acquired the assets from a “C” corporation), were not
treated as sold to an unrelated party and gain recognized.  For the twelve
months ending December 31, 2011, we acquired 135 assets with built-in gain that
could be subject to built-in gains tax if disposed of prior to December 2021.  For
those properties that are subject to the built-in-gains tax, if triggered by a
sale within the ten-year period beginning on the date on which the properties
were acquired by us, then the potential amount of built-in-gains tax will be an
additional factor when considering a possible sale of the properties.  See Note
18 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information
regarding the built-in gains tax.

Qualification
as a REIT

A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or
association:

(1)     which is managed by one or more trustees or
directors;

(2)     the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced
by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;

(3)     which would be taxable as a domestic
corporation but for the federal income tax law relating to REITs;

(4)     which is neither a financial institution nor
an insurance company;

(5)     the beneficial ownership of which is held by
100 or more persons in each taxable year of the REIT except for its first
taxable year;

(6)     not more than 50% in value of the outstanding
stock of which is owned during the last half of each taxable year, excluding
its first taxable year, directly or indirectly, by or for five or fewer
individuals (which includes certain entities) (the “Five or Fewer
Requirement”); and

(7)     which meets certain income and asset tests
described below.

Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met
during the entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at
least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a
proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. For purposes
of conditions (5) and (6), pension funds and certain other tax-exempt
entities are treated as individuals, subject to a “look-through” exception in
the case of condition (6).

Based on publicly available information, we believe we
have satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in (5) and
(6) above. In addition, Article VI of our by-laws provides for
restrictions regarding ownership and transfer of shares. These restrictions are
intended to assist us in continuing to satisfy the share ownership requirements
described in (5) and (6) above. These restrictions, however, may not
ensure that we will, in all cases, be able to satisfy the share ownership
requirements described in (5) and (6) above.

We have complied with, and will continue to comply
with, regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our stockholders
requesting information regarding the actual ownership of our stock. If, despite
sending the annual letters, we do not know, or after exercising reasonable
diligence would not have known, whether we failed to meet the Five or Fewer
Requirement, we will be treated as having met the Five or Fewer Requirement. If
we fail to comply with these regulatory rules, we will be subject to a monetary
penalty. If our failure to comply was due to intentional disregard of the
requirement, the penalty would be increased. However, if our failure to comply
were due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty would be
imposed.

We may own a number of properties through wholly owned
subsidiaries. A corporation will qualify as a “qualified REIT subsidiary” if
100% of its stock is owned by a REIT, and the REIT does not elect to treat the
subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” will not
be treated as a separate corporation, and all assets, liabilities and items of
income, deductions and credits of a “qualified REIT subsidiary” will be treated
as assets, liabilities and items (as the case may be) of the REIT. A “qualified
REIT subsidiary” is not subject to federal income tax, and our ownership of the
voting stock of a qualified REIT subsidiary will not violate the restrictions
against ownership of securities of any one issuer which constitute more than
10% of the value or total voting power of such issuer or more than 5% of the
value of our total assets, as described below under “— Asset Tests.”


If we invest in a partnership, a limited liability
company or a trust taxed as a partnership or as a disregarded entity, we will
be deemed to own a proportionate share of the partnership’s, limited liability
company’s or trust’s assets. Likewise, we will be treated as receiving our
share of the income and loss of the partnership, limited liability company or
trust, and the gross income will retain the same character in our hands as it
has in the hands of the partnership, limited liability company or trust. These
“look-through” rules apply for purposes of the income tests and assets tests
described below.

Income Tests.

There
are two separate percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that
we must satisfy for each taxable year.

•     At least 75% of our gross income (excluding
gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from “rents from real
property,” other income from investments relating to real property or mortgages
on real property or certain income from qualified temporary investments.

•     At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross
income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be directly
or indirectly derived each taxable year from any of the sources qualifying for
the 75% gross income test and from dividends (including dividends from taxable
REIT subsidiaries) and interest.

As to transactions entered into in taxable years
beginning after October 22, 2004, any of our income from a “clearly
identified” hedging transaction that is entered into by us in the normal course
of business, directly or indirectly, to manage the risk of interest rate
movements, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings or
obligations incurred or to be incurred by us, or such other risks that are
prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, is excluded from the 95% gross
income test.

For transactions entered into after July 30,
2008, any of our income from a “clearly identified” hedging transaction that is
entered into by us in the normal course of business, directly or indirectly, to
manage the risk of interest rate movements, price changes or currency
fluctuations with respect to borrowings or obligations incurred or to be
incurred by us is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.

For transactions entered into after July 30,
2008, any of our income from a “clearly identified” hedging transaction entered
into by us primarily to manage risk of currency fluctuations with respect to
any item of income or gain that is included in gross income in the 95% and 75%
gross income tests is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.

In general, a hedging transaction is “clearly
identified” if (1) the transaction is identified as a hedging transaction
before the end of the day on which it is entered into and (2) the items or
risks being hedged are identified “substantially contemporaneously” with the
hedging transaction. An identification is not substantially contemporaneous if
it is made more than 35 days after entering into the hedging transaction.

As to gains and items of income recognized after
July 30, 2008, “passive foreign exchange gain” for any taxable year will
not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test and “real
estate foreign exchange gain” for any taxable year will not constitute gross
income for purposes of the 75% gross income test. Real estate foreign exchange
gain is foreign currency gain (as defined in Internal Revenue Code
section 988(b)(1)) which is attributable to: (i) any qualifying item
of income or gain for purposes of the 75% gross income test; (ii) the
acquisition or ownership of obligations secured by mortgages on real property
or interests in real property; or (iii) becoming or being the obligor
under obligations secured by mortgages on real property or on interests in real
property. Real estate foreign exchange gain also includes Internal Revenue Code
section 987 gain attributable to a qualified business unit (a “QBU”) of a
REIT if the QBU itself meets the 75% income test for the taxable year and the
75% asset test at the close of each quarter that the REIT has directly or
indirectly held the QBU. Real estate foreign exchange gain also includes any
other foreign currency gain as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Passive foreign exchange gain includes all real estate foreign exchange gain
and foreign currency gain which is attributable to: (i) any qualifying
item of income or gain for purposes of the 95% gross income test; (ii) the
acquisition or ownership of obligations; (iii) becoming or being the
obligor under obligations; and (iv) any other foreign currency gain as
determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Generally, other than income from “clearly identified”
hedging transactions entered into by us in the normal course of business, any
foreign currency gain derived by us from dealing, or engaging in substantial
and regular trading, in securities will constitute gross income which does not
qualify under the 95% or 75% gross income tests.

Rents received by us will qualify as “rents from real
property” for purposes of satisfying the gross income tests for a REIT only if
several conditions are met:

•     The amount of rent must not be based in whole or
in part on the income or profits of any person, although rents generally will
not be excluded merely because they are based on a fixed percentage or percentages
of receipts or sales.


•     Rents received from a tenant will not qualify as
rents from real property if the REIT, or an owner of 10% or more of the REIT,
also directly or constructively owns 10% or more of the tenant, unless the
tenant is our taxable REIT subsidiary and certain other requirements are met
with respect to the real property being rented.

•     If rent attributable to personal property leased
in connection with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the total
rent received under the lease, then the portion of rent attributable to such
personal property will not qualify as “rents from real property.”

•     For rents to qualify as rents from real
property, we generally must not furnish or render services to tenants, other
than through a taxable REIT subsidiary or an “independent contractor” from whom
we derive no income, except that we may directly provide services that are
“usually or customarily rendered” in the geographic area in which the property
is located in connection with the rental of real property for occupancy only,
or are not otherwise considered “rendered to the occupant for his convenience.”

•     For taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008,
the REIT may lease

“

qualified
health care

properties”

on an
arm’s-length basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary if the property is operated on
behalf of such subsidiary by a person who

qualifies as an
“independent contractor” and who is, or is related to a person who is, actively
engaged in the trade or business of operating health care facilities for any
person unrelated to us or our taxable REIT subsidiary, an “

eligible independent contractor

.

”

Generally, the rent that the REIT
receives from the taxable REIT subsidiary will be treated as “rents from real
property.”

A “qualified health care property” includes any real
property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to
the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate
care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility
which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and which is
operated by a provider of such services which is eligible for participation in
the Medicare program with respect to such facility.

A REIT is permitted to render a de minimis amount of
impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts received with respect
to that property as rent from real property. The amount received or accrued by
the REIT during the taxable year for the impermissible services with respect to
a property may not exceed 1% of all amounts received or accrued by the REIT
directly or indirectly from the property. The amount received for any service
or management operation for this purpose shall be deemed to be not less than
150% of the direct cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or
providing the management or operation. Furthermore, impermissible services may
be furnished to tenants by a taxable REIT subsidiary subject to certain
conditions, and we may still treat rents received with respect to the property
as rent from real property.

The term “interest” generally does not
include any amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in
part on the income or profits of any person, although an amount generally will
not be excluded from the term “interest” solely by reason of being based on a
fixed percentage of receipts or sales.

If we fail to satisfy one or both of
the 75% or 95% gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless
qualify as a REIT for such year if we are eligible for relief.  These relief
provisions generally will be available if (1) following our identification
of the failure, we file a schedule for such taxable year describing each item
of our gross income, and (2) the failure to meet such tests was due to
reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect.

It is not now possible to determine
the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief
provisions. If these relief provisions apply, a 100% tax is imposed on an amount
equal to (a) the gross income attributable to (1) 75% of our gross
income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75%
income test and (2) 95% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying
gross income for purposes of the 95% income test, multiplied by (b) a
fraction intended to reflect our profitability.

The Secretary of the Treasury is given
broad authority to determine whether particular items of income or gain qualify
or not under the 75% and 95% gross income tests, or are to be excluded from the
measure of gross income for such purposes.

Asset Tests.

Within 30 days after
the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy several
tests relating to the nature and diversification of our assets determined in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. At least 75% of the
value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets, cash, cash
items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of our operation),
government securities and qualified temporary investments. Although the
remaining 25% of our assets generally may be invested without restriction, we
are prohibited from owning securities representing more than 10% of either the
vote (the “10% vote test”) or value (the “10% value test”) of the outstanding
securities of any issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT
or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Further, no more than 25% of the total assets may
be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “25%
asset test”) and no more than 5% of the value of our total assets may be
represented by securities of any non-governmental issuer other than a qualified
REIT subsidiary (the “5% asset test”), another REIT or a taxable REIT
subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test and the 25% and 5%
asset tests must be satisfied at the end of each


quarter.
There are special rules which provide relief if the value related tests are not
satisfied due to changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.

Certain items are excluded from the
10% value test, including: (1) straight debt securities of an issuer
(including straight debt that provides certain contingent payments);
(2) any loan to an individual or an estate; (3) any rental agreement
described in Section 467 of the Internal Revenue Code, other than with a
“related person”; (4) any obligation to pay rents from real property;
(5) certain securities issued by a state or any subdivision thereof, the
District of Columbia, a foreign government, or any political subdivision
thereof, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; (6) any security issued by a
REIT; and (7) any other arrangement that, as determined by the Secretary
of the Treasury, is excepted from the definition of security (“excluded
securities”). Special rules apply to straight debt securities issued by
corporations and entities taxable as partnerships for federal income tax
purposes. If a REIT, or its taxable REIT subsidiary, holds (1) straight
debt securities of a corporate or partnership issuer and (2) securities of
such issuer that are not excluded securities and have an aggregate value
greater than 1% of such issuer’s outstanding securities, the straight debt
securities will be included in the 10% value test.

A REIT’s interest as a partner in a
partnership is not treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value
test to securities issued by the partnership. Further, any debt instrument
issued by a partnership will not be a security for purposes of applying the 10%
value test (1) to the extent of the REIT’s interest as a partner in the
partnership and (2) if at least 75% of the partnership’s gross income
(excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would qualify for the 75%
gross income test.  For purposes of the 10% value test, a REIT’s interest in a
partnership’s assets is determined by the REIT’s proportionate interest in any
securities issued by the partnership (other than the excluded securities
described in the preceding paragraph).

For taxable years beginning after July 30,
2008, if the REIT or its QBU uses a foreign currency as its functional
currency, the term “cash” includes such foreign currency, but only to the
extent such foreign currency is (i) held for use in the normal course of
the activities of the REIT or QBU which give rise to items of income or gain
that are included in the 95% and 75% gross income tests or are directly related
to acquiring or holding assets qualifying under the 75% asset test, and
(ii) not held in connection with dealing or engaging in substantial and
regular trading in securities.

With respect to corrections of
failures as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test or the 5%
asset test, a REIT may avoid disqualification as a REIT by disposing of
sufficient assets to cure a violation that does not exceed the lesser of 1% of
the REIT’s assets at the end of the relevant quarter or $10,000,000, provided
that the disposition occurs within six months following the last day of the
quarter in which the REIT first identified the assets. For violations of any of
the REIT asset tests due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect that
exceed the thresholds described in the preceding sentence, a REIT can avoid
disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter by taking certain
steps, including disposition of sufficient assets within the six month period
described above to meet the applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to the
greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net
income generated by the non-qualifying assets during the period of time that
the assets were held as non-qualifying assets and filing a schedule with the
Internal Revenue Service that describes the non-qualifying assets.

Investments in Taxable REIT
Subsidiaries.

REITs may own more than 10% of the voting power and value of securities in
taxable REIT subsidiaries. We and any taxable corporate entity in which we own
an interest are allowed to jointly elect to treat such entity as a “taxable
REIT subsidiary.”

Certain of our subsidiaries have
elected to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Taxable REIT subsidiaries
are subject to full corporate level federal taxation on their earnings but are
permitted to engage in certain types of activities that cannot be performed
directly by REITs without jeopardizing their REIT status. Our taxable REIT
subsidiaries will attempt to minimize the amount of these taxes, but there can
be no assurance whether or the extent to which measures taken to minimize taxes
will be successful. To the extent our taxable REIT subsidiaries are required to
pay federal, state or local taxes, the cash available for distribution as
dividends to us from our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be reduced.

The amount of interest on
related-party debt that a taxable REIT subsidiary may deduct is limited.
Further, a 100% tax applies to any interest payments by a taxable REIT
subsidiary to its affiliated REIT to the extent the interest rate is not
commercially reasonable. A taxable REIT subsidiary is permitted to deduct interest
payments to unrelated parties without any of these restrictions.

The Internal Revenue Service may
reallocate costs between a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiary where there is
a lack of arm’s-length dealing between the parties. Any deductible expenses
allocated away from a taxable REIT subsidiary would increase its tax liability.
Further, any amount by which a REIT understates its deductions and overstates
those of its taxable REIT subsidiary will, subject to certain exceptions, be
subject to a 100% tax. Additional taxable REIT subsidiary elections may be made
in the future for additional entities in which we own an interest.

Annual Distribution Requirements.

In order to avoid being
taxed as a regular corporation, we are required to make distributions (other
than capital gain distributions) to our stockholders which qualify for the
dividends paid deduction in an amount at least equal to (1) the sum of
(i) 90% of our “REIT taxable income” (computed without regard to the
dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the
after-tax net income, if any, from foreclosure property, minus (2) a
portion of certain items of non-cash income. These distributions must be paid
in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if
declared before


we timely file our tax return for that
year and if paid on or before the first regular distribution payment after such
declaration. The amount distributed must not be preferential. This means that
every stockholder of the class of stock to which a distribution is made must be
treated the same as every other stockholder of that class, and no class of
stock may be treated otherwise than in accordance with its dividend rights as a
class. To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or
distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT taxable income,” as
adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular
corporate tax rates. Finally, as discussed above, we may be subject to an excise
tax if we fail to meet certain other distribution requirements. We intend to
make timely distributions sufficient to satisfy these annual distribution
requirements.

It is possible that, from time to
time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90%
distribution requirement, or to distribute such greater amount as may be
necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to, among other things,
(1) timing differences between (i) the actual receipt of income and
actual payment of deductible expenses and (ii) the inclusion of income and
deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or (2) the
payment of severance benefits that may not be deductible to us. In the event
that timing differences occur, we may find it necessary to arrange for
borrowings or, if possible, pay dividends in the form of taxable stock
dividends in order to meet the distribution requirement.

Under certain circumstances, in the
event of a deficiency determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be
able to rectify a resulting failure to meet the distribution requirement for a
year by paying “deficiency dividends” to stockholders in a later year, which
may be included in our deduction for distributions paid for the earlier year.
Thus, we may be able to avoid being taxed on amounts distributed as deficiency
dividends; however, we will be required to pay applicable penalties and
interest based upon the amount of any deduction taken for deficiency dividend
distributions.

The Internal Revenue Service issued Revenue Procedure
2008-68, which provided temporary relief to publicly traded REITs seeking to
preserve liquidity by electing cash/stock dividends. Under Revenue Procedure
2008-68, a REIT may treat the entire dividend, including the stock portion, as
a taxable dividend distribution, thereby qualifying for the dividends-paid
deduction, provided certain requirements are satisfied. The cash portion of the
dividend may be as low as 10%. Revenue Procedure 2008-68, as amplified by
Revenue Procedure 2010-12, applies to dividends declared on or before
December 31, 2012, and with respect to a taxable year ending on or before
December 31, 2011.

Failure
to Qualify as a REIT

If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any
taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax, including any
applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate
rates. Distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as
a REIT will not be deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions
be required to be made in any year. All distributions to stockholders will be
taxable as ordinary income to the extent of current and accumulated earnings
and profits allocable to these distributions and, subject to certain
limitations, will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for
corporate stockholders. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory
provisions, we also will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four
taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. It is not
possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to
statutory relief. Failure to qualify for even one year could result in our need
to incur indebtedness or liquidate investments in order to pay potentially
significant resulting tax liabilities.

In addition to the relief described above under
“— Income Tests” and “— Asset Tests,” relief is available in the
event that we violate a provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would
result in our failure to qualify as a REIT if: (1) the violation is due to
reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we pay a penalty of
$50,000 for each failure to satisfy the provision; and (3) the violation
does not include a violation described under “— Income Tests” or
“— Asset Tests” above. It is not now possible to determine the
circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief
provisions.

Federal
Income Taxation of Holders of Our Stock

Treatment of Taxable U.S. Stockholders.

The following summary applies to you only
if you are a “U.S. stockholder.” A “U.S. stockholder” is a holder of
shares of stock who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is:

•     a citizen or resident of the United States;

•     a corporation, partnership or other entity
classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political
subdivision of the United States, including any state;

•     an estate, the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source; or

•     a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is
able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or
more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has
the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial decisions.


So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT,
distributions on shares of our stock made out of the current or accumulated
earnings and profits allocable to these distributions (and not designated as
capital gain dividends) will be includable as ordinary income for federal
income tax purposes. None of these distributions will be eligible for the
dividends received deduction for U.S. corporate stockholders.

Generally, for taxable years ending after May 6,
2003 through December 31, 2012, the maximum marginal rate of tax payable
by individuals on dividends received from corporations that are subject to a
corporate level of tax is 15%. Except in limited circumstances, this tax rate
will not apply to dividends paid to you by us on our shares, because generally
we are not subject to federal income tax on the portion of our REIT taxable
income or capital gains distributed to our stockholders. The reduced maximum
federal income tax rate will apply to that portion, if any, of dividends
received by you with respect to our shares that are attributable to:
(1) dividends received by us from non-REIT corporations or other taxable
REIT subsidiaries; (2) income from the prior year with respect to which we
were required to pay federal corporate income tax during the prior year (if,
for example, we did not distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income for the
prior year); or (3) the amount of any earnings and profits that were
distributed by us and accumulated in a non-REIT year.

Distributions that are designated as capital gain
dividends will be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not
exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year), without regard to the
period for which you held our stock. However, if you are a corporation, you may
be required to treat a portion of some capital gain dividends as ordinary
income.

If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net
long-term capital gain, you would include in income, as long-term capital gain,
your proportionate share of this net long-term capital gain. You would also
receive a refundable tax credit for your proportionate share of the tax paid by
us on such retained capital gains, and you would have an increase in the basis
of your shares of our stock in an amount equal to your includable capital gains
less your share of the tax deemed paid.

You may not include in your federal income tax return
any of our net operating losses or capital losses. Federal income tax rules may
also require that certain minimum tax adjustments and preferences be
apportioned to you. In addition, any distribution declared by us in October,
November or December of any year on a specified date in any such month shall be
treated as both paid by us and received by you on December 31 of that year,
provided that the distribution is actually paid by us no later than January 31
of the following year.

We will be treated as having sufficient earnings and
profits to treat as a dividend any distribution up to the amount required to be
distributed in order to avoid imposition of the 4% excise tax discussed under
“— General” and “— Qualification as a REIT — Annual Distribution
Requirements” above. As a result, you may be required to treat as taxable dividends
certain distributions that would otherwise result in a tax-free return of
capital. Moreover, any “deficiency dividend” will be treated as a dividend (an
ordinary dividend or a capital gain dividend, as the case may be), regardless
of our earnings and profits. Any other distributions in excess of current or
accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to you to the extent these
distributions do not exceed the adjusted tax basis of your shares of our stock.
You will be required to reduce the tax basis of your shares of our stock by the
amount of these distributions until the basis has been reduced to zero, after
which these distributions will be taxable as capital gain, if the shares of our
stock are held as capital assets. The tax basis as so reduced will be used in
computing the capital gain or loss, if any, realized upon sale of the shares of
our stock. Any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our stock which were
held for six months or less (after application of certain holding period rules)
will generally be treated as a long-term capital loss to the extent you
previously received capital gain distributions with respect to these shares of
our stock.

Upon the sale or exchange of any shares of our stock
to or with a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of our
stock (whether actually or constructively owned) with us, you will generally
recognize capital gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount
realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in these shares of
our stock. This gain will be capital gain if you held these shares of our stock
as a capital asset.

If we redeem any of your shares in us, the treatment
can only be determined on the basis of particular facts at the time of
redemption. In general, you will recognize gain or loss (as opposed to dividend
income) equal to the difference between the amount received by you in the
redemption and your adjusted tax basis in your shares redeemed if such
redemption: (1) results in a “complete termination” of your interest in
all classes of our equity securities; (2) is a “substantially
disproportionate redemption”; or (3) is “not essentially equivalent to a
dividend” with respect to you. In applying these tests, you must take into
account your ownership of all classes of our equity securities (e.g., common
stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants). You also must take
into account any equity securities that are considered to be constructively
owned by you.

If, as a result of a redemption by us of your shares,
you no longer own (either actually or constructively) any of our equity
securities or only own (actually and constructively) an insubstantial
percentage of our equity securities, then it is probable that the redemption of
your shares would be considered “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” and,
thus, would result in gain or loss to you. However,


whether
a distribution is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” depends on all of
the facts and circumstances, and if you rely on any of these tests at the time
of redemption, you should consult your tax advisor to determine their
application to the particular situation.

Generally, if the redemption does not meet the tests
described above, then the proceeds received by you from the redemption of your
shares will be treated as a distribution taxable as a dividend to the extent of
the allocable portion of current or accumulated earnings and profits. If the
redemption is taxed as a dividend, your adjusted tax basis in the redeemed
shares will be transferred to any other shareholdings in us that you own. If
you own no other shareholdings in us, under certain circumstances, such basis
may be transferred to a related person, or it may be lost entirely.

Gain from the sale or exchange of our
shares held for more than one year is generally taxed at a maximum long-term
capital gain rate of 15% through 2012 in the case of stockholders who are
individuals and 35% in the case of stockholders that are corporations.  Pursuant
to Internal Revenue Service guidance, we may classify portions of our capital
gain dividends as gains eligible for the long-term capital gains rate or as
gain taxable to individual stockholders at a maximum rate of 25%.  Capital
losses recognized by a stockholder upon the disposition of our shares held for
more than one year at the time of disposition will be considered long term
capital losses, and are generally available only to offset capital gain income
of the stockholder but not ordinary income (except in the case of individuals,
who may offset up to $3,000 of ordinary income each year).

On March 30,
2010, the President signed into law the Health Care and Education
Reconciliation Act of 2010, which requires U.S. stockholders who meet certain
requirements and are individuals, estates or certain trusts to pay an
additional 3.8% tax on, among other things, dividends on and capital gains from
the sale or other disposition of stock for taxable years beginning after
December 31, 2012. U.S. stockholders should consult their tax advisors regarding
the effect, if any, of this legislation on their ownership and disposition of
shares of our stock.

Treatment of Tax-Exempt U.S. Stockholders.

Tax-exempt
entities, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts and
individual retirement accounts (“Exempt Organizations”), generally are exempt
from federal income taxation. However, they are subject to taxation on their
unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). The Internal Revenue Service has
issued a published revenue ruling that dividend distributions from a REIT to an
exempt employee pension trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares
of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of the
exempt employee pension trust. Based on this ruling, amounts distributed by us
to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an
Exempt Organization finances its acquisition of the shares of our stock with
debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the
“debt financed property” rules. Likewise, a portion of the Exempt
Organization’s income from us would constitute UBTI if we held a residual
interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit.

In addition, in certain circumstances,
a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our stock is required to treat a
percentage of our dividends as UBTI. This rule applies to a pension trust
holding more than 10% of our stock only if: (1) the percentage of our
income that is UBTI (determined as if we were a pension trust) is at least 5%;
(2) we qualify as a REIT by reason of the modification of the Five or
Fewer Requirement that allows beneficiaries of the pension trust to be treated
as holding shares in proportion to their actuarial interests in the pension
trust; and (3) either (i) one pension trust owns more than 25% of the
value of our stock, or (ii) a group of pension trusts individually holding
more than 10% of the value of our stock collectively own more than 50% of the
value of our stock.

Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.

Under certain
circumstances, you may be subject to backup withholding at applicable rates on
payments made with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange of,
shares of our stock. Backup withholding will apply only if you: (1) fail
to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an
individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an
incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or
dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury, that you
have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal
Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup withholding.

Backup withholding will not apply with
respect to payments made to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and
tax-exempt organizations. You should consult with a tax advisor regarding
qualification for exemption from backup withholding, and the procedure for
obtaining an exemption. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather,
the amount of any backup withholding with respect to a payment to a stockholder
will be allowed as a credit against such stockholder’s United States federal income tax liability and may entitle such stockholder to a refund, provided
that the required information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service. In
addition, withholding a portion of capital gain distributions made to
stockholders may be required for stockholders who fail to certify their
non-foreign status.

Taxation of Foreign Stockholders.

The following summary
applies to you only if you are a foreign person. The federal taxation of
foreign persons is a highly complex matter that may be affected by many
considerations.

Except as discussed below,
distributions to you of cash generated by our real estate operations in the
form of ordinary dividends, but not by the sale or exchange of our capital
assets, generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of
30%, unless an applicable tax treaty reduces that tax and you file with us the
required form evidencing the lower rate.


In general, you will be subject to
United States federal income tax on a graduated rate basis rather than
withholding with respect to your investment in our stock if such investment is
“effectively connected” with your conduct of a trade or business in the United
States. A corporate foreign stockholder that receives income that is, or is
treated as, effectively connected with a United States trade or business may
also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is payable in addition to
regular United States corporate income tax. The following discussion will apply
to foreign stockholders whose investment in us is not so effectively connected.
We expect to withhold United States income tax, as described below, on the
gross amount of any distributions paid to you unless (1) you file an
Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI with us claiming that the
distribution is “effectively connected” or (2) certain other exceptions
apply.

Distributions by us that are
attributable to gain from the sale or exchange of a United States real property
interest will be taxed to you under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax
Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if these distributions were gains “effectively
connected” with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, you will be
taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. stockholder on these amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a
special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals.
Distributions subject to FIRPTA may also be subject to a branch profits tax in
the hands of a corporate foreign stockholder that is not entitled to treaty
exemption.

We will be required to withhold from distributions
subject to FIRPTA, and remit to the Internal Revenue Service, 35% of designated
capital gain dividends, or, if greater, 35% of the amount of any distributions
that could be designated as capital gain dividends. In addition, if we
designate prior distributions as capital gain dividends, subsequent
distributions, up to the amount of the prior distributions not withheld
against, will be treated as capital gain dividends for purposes of withholding.

Any capital gain dividend with respect to any class of
stock that is “regularly traded” on an established securities market will be
treated as an ordinary dividend if the foreign stockholder did not own more
than 5% of such class of stock at any time during the taxable year. Foreign
stockholders generally will not be required to report distributions received
from us on U.S. federal income tax returns and all distributions treated
as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes (including any such capital
gain dividends) will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax (unless
reduced under an applicable income tax treaty) as discussed above. In addition,
the branch profits tax will not apply to such distributions.

Unless our shares constitute a “United States real property interest” within the meaning of FIRPTA or are effectively connected with
a U.S. trade or business, a sale of our shares by you generally will not
be subject to United States taxation. Our shares will not constitute a United States real property interest if we qualify as a “domestically controlled REIT.” We
believe that we, and expect to continue to, qualify as a domestically
controlled REIT. A domestically controlled REIT is a REIT in which at all times
during a specified testing period less than 50% in value of its shares is held
directly or indirectly by foreign stockholders. However, if you are a
nonresident alien individual who is present in the United States for
183 days or more during the taxable year and certain other conditions apply,
you will be subject to a 30% tax on such capital gains. In any event, a
purchaser of our shares from you will not be required under FIRPTA to withhold
on the purchase price if the purchased shares are “regularly traded” on an
established securities market or if we are a domestically controlled REIT.
Otherwise, under FIRPTA, the purchaser may be required to withhold 10% of the
purchase price and remit such amount to the Internal Revenue Service.

Backup withholding tax and information reporting will
generally not apply to distributions paid to you outside the United States that
are treated as: (1) dividends to which the 30% or lower treaty rate
withholding tax discussed above applies; (2) capital gains dividends; or
(3) distributions attributable to gain from the sale or exchange by us of
U.S. real property interests. Payment of the proceeds of a sale of stock
within the United States or conducted through certain U.S. related
financial intermediaries is subject to both backup withholding and information reporting
unless the beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that he or she
is not a U.S. person (and the payor does not have actual knowledge that
the beneficial owner is a U.S. person) or otherwise established an
exemption. You may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup
withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund with the Internal
Revenue Service.

Recently enacted legislation will impose U.S. withholding
tax at a rate of 30% after December 31, 2013 on dividends in respect of, and after
December 31, 2014 on gross proceeds from the sale of, shares of our stock held
by or through certain foreign financial institutions (including investment
funds), unless such institution enters into an agreement with the Secretary of
the Treasury to report, on an annual basis, information with respect to shares
in the institution held by certain U.S. persons and by certain non-U.S.
entities that are wholly or partially owned by U.S. persons, and to withhold on
certain payments. Accordingly, the entity through which shares of stock is held
will affect the determination of whether such withholding is required.
Similarly, dividends in respect of, and gross proceeds from the sale of, shares
of our stock held by an investor that is a non-financial non-U.S. entity will
be subject to withholding at a rate of 30%, unless such entity either (i)
certifies to us that such entity does not have any "substantial United
States owners" or (ii) provides certain information regarding the entity's
"substantial United States owners," which we will in turn provide to
the Secretary of the Treasury. If payment of withholding taxes is required,
stockholders that are otherwise eligible for an exemption from, or reduction
of, U.S. withholding taxes with respect to such dividends and proceeds will be
required to seek a refund from the Internal Revenue Service to obtain the
benefit of such exemption or reduction.  We will not pay any additional amounts
to any stockholders in


respect of any amounts withheld. Foreign persons are
encouraged to consult with their tax advisors regarding the possible
implications of the legislation on their investment in shares of our stock.

U.S. Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Depositary
Shares

Owners of our depositary shares will be treated as if
you were owners of the series of preferred stock represented by the depositary
shares. Thus, you will be required to take into account the income and
deductions to which you would be entitled if you were a holder of the underlying
series of preferred stock.

Conversion or Exchange of Shares for Preferred Stock.

No gain or loss will be recognized upon
the withdrawal of preferred stock in exchange for depositary shares and the tax
basis of each share of preferred stock will, upon exchange, be the same as the
aggregate tax basis of the depositary shares exchanged. If you held your
depositary shares as a capital asset at the time of the exchange for shares of
preferred stock, the holding period for your shares of preferred stock will include
the period during which you owned the depositary shares.

U.S. Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our
Debt Securities

The following is a general summary of the United
States federal income tax consequences and, in the case that you are a holder
that is a non-U.S. holder, as defined below, the United States federal
estate tax consequences, of purchasing, owning and disposing of debt securities
periodically offered under one or more indentures (the “notes”). This summary
assumes that you hold the notes as capital assets. This summary applies to you
only if you are the initial holder of the notes and you acquire the notes for a
price equal to the issue price of the notes. The issue price of the notes is
the first price at which a substantial amount of the notes is sold other than
to bond houses, brokers or similar persons or organizations acting in the
capacity of underwriters, placement agents or wholesalers. In addition, this
summary does not consider any foreign, state, local or other tax laws that may
be applicable to us or a purchaser of the notes.

U.S. Holders

The following summary applies to you only if you are a
  U.S. holder, as defined below.

Definition of a U.S. Holder.

A “U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner
of a note or notes that is for United States federal income tax purposes:

•     a citizen or resident of the United States;

•     a corporation, partnership or other entity
classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political
subdivision of the United States, including any state;

•     an estate, the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source; or

•     a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is
able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or
more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has
the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial decisions.

Payments of Interest.

Stated interest on the notes generally
will be taxed as ordinary interest income from domestic sources at the time it
is paid or accrues in accordance with your method of accounting for tax
purposes.

Sale,
Exchange or Other Disposition of Notes.

The
adjusted tax basis in your note acquired at a premium will generally be your
cost. You generally will recognize taxable gain or loss when you sell or
otherwise dispose of your notes equal to the difference, if any, between:

•     the amount realized on the sale or other
disposition, less any amount attributable to any accrued interest, which will
be taxable in the manner described under “— Payments of Interest”
above; and

•     your adjusted tax basis in the notes.

Your gain or loss generally will be capital gain or
loss. This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if at
the time of the sale or other disposition you have held the notes for more than
one year. Subject to limited exceptions, your capital losses cannot be used to
offset your ordinary income.


Backup Withholding and
Information Reporting.

In
general, “backup withholding” may apply to any payments made to you of
principal and interest on your note, and to payment of the proceeds of a sale
or other disposition of your note before maturity, if you are a non-corporate
U.S. holder and: (1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer
identification number, which if you are an individual, is ordinarily your
social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect taxpayer identification
number; (3) are notified by the Internal Revenue Service that you have
failed to properly report payments of interest or dividends; or (4) fail
to certify, under penalties of perjury, that you have furnished a correct
taxpayer identification number and that the Internal Revenue Service has not notified
you that you are subject to backup withholding.

The amount of any reportable payments, including
interest, made to you (unless you are an exempt recipient) and the amount of
tax withheld, if any, with respect to such payments will be reported to you and
to the Internal Revenue Service for each calendar year. You should consult your
tax advisor regarding your qualification for an exemption from backup
withholding and the procedures for obtaining such an exemption, if applicable.
The backup withholding tax is not an additional tax and will be credited
against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided that correct
information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service.

Non-U.S.
Holders

The following summary applies to you if you are a
beneficial owner of a note and are not a U.S. holder, as defined above (a
“non-U.S. holder”).

Special rules may apply to certain
non-U.S. holders such as “controlled foreign corporations,” “passive
foreign investment companies” and “foreign personal holding companies.” Such
entities are encouraged to consult their tax advisors to determine the United States federal, state, local and other tax consequences that may be relevant to
them.

U.S. Federal
Withholding Tax.

Subject
to the discussion below, U.S. federal withholding tax will not apply to
payments by us or our paying agent, in its capacity as such, of principal and
interest on your notes under the “portfolio interest” exception of the Internal
Revenue Code, provided that:

•     you do not, directly or indirectly, actually or
constructively, own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all
classes of our stock entitled to vote;

•     you are not (1) a controlled foreign
corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is related, directly
or indirectly, to us through sufficient stock ownership, as provided in the
Internal Revenue Code, or (2) a bank receiving interest described in
Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code;

•     such interest is not effectively connected with
your conduct of a U.S. trade or business; and

•     you provide a signed written statement, under
penalties of perjury, which can reliably be related to you, certifying that you
are not a U.S. person within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code and
providing your name and address to:

•     us or our paying agent; or

•     a securities clearing organization, bank or
other financial institution that holds customers’ securities in the ordinary
course of its trade or business and holds your notes on your behalf and that
certifies to us or our paying agent under penalties of perjury that it, or the
bank or financial institution between it and you, has received from you your
signed, written statement and provides us or our paying agent with a copy of
such statement.

Treasury regulations provide that:

•     if you are a foreign partnership, the
certification requirement will generally apply to your partners, and you will
be required to provide certain information;

•     if you are a foreign trust, the certification
requirement will generally be applied to you or your beneficial owners
depending on whether you are a “foreign complex trust,” “foreign simple trust,”
or “foreign grantor trust” as defined in the Treasury regulations; and

•     look-through rules will apply for tiered
partnerships, foreign simple trusts and foreign grantor trusts.

If you are a foreign partnership or a foreign trust,
you should consult your own tax advisor regarding your status under these
Treasury regulations and the certification requirements applicable to you.


If you cannot satisfy the
portfolio interest requirements described above, payments of interest will be
subject to the 30% United States withholding tax, unless you provide us with a
properly executed (1) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming an
exemption from or reduction in withholding under the benefit of an applicable
treaty or (2) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI stating that
interest paid on the note is not subject to withholding tax because it is
effectively connected with your conduct of a trade or business in the United
States. Alternative documentation may be applicable in certain circumstances.

If you are engaged in a trade or business in the
United States and interest on a note is effectively connected with the conduct
of that trade or business, you will be required to pay United States federal
income tax on that interest on a net income basis (although you will be exempt
from the 30% withholding tax provided the certification requirement described
above is met) in the same manner as if you were a U.S. person, except as
otherwise provided by an applicable tax treaty. If you are a foreign
corporation, you may be required to pay a branch profits tax on the earnings
and profits that are effectively connected to the conduct of your trade or
business in the United States.

Recently enacted legislation generally will impose
U.S. withholding tax at a 30% rate on payments of interest (including original
issue discount) and proceeds of sale in respect of debt instruments to certain
non-U.S. holders if certain additional disclosure requirements related to U.S.
ownership of such non-U.S. holders or certain U.S. accounts maintained by such
non-U.S. holders at foreign financial institutions are not satisfied. However,
the withholding tax will not be imposed on payments pursuant to debt or other
obligations outstanding as of March 18, 2012.  If payment of withholding taxes
is required, non-U.S. holders that are otherwise eligible for an exemption
from, or reduction of, U.S. withholding taxes with respect to such
distributions and proceeds of a sale of such notes will be entitled to seek a
refund from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) to obtain the benefit of such
exemption or reduction. We will not pay any additional amounts to non-U.S.
holders in respect of any amounts withheld. These new withholding rules are
generally effective with respect to payments of interest made after December
31, 2013 and with respect to proceeds of sales received after December 31, 2014.

Sale,
Exchange or other Disposition of Notes.

You
generally will not have to pay U.S. federal income tax on any gain or
income realized from the sale, redemption, retirement at maturity or other
disposition of your notes, unless:

•     in the case of gain, you are an individual who
is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable
year of the sale or other disposition of your notes, and specific other
conditions are met;

•     you are subject to tax provisions applicable to
certain United States expatriates; or

•     the gain is effectively connected with your
conduct of a U.S. trade or business.

If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and gain with respect to your notes is effectively connected with the conduct of that
trade or business, you generally will be subject to U.S. income tax on a
net basis on the gain. In addition, if you are a foreign corporation, you may
be subject to a branch profits tax on your effectively connected earnings and
profits for the taxable year, as adjusted for certain items.

U.S. Federal
Estate Tax.

If you are an
individual and are not a U.S. citizen or a resident of the United States,
as specially defined for U.S. federal estate tax purposes, at the time of
your death, your notes will generally not be subject to the U.S. federal estate
tax, unless, at the time of your death (1) you owned actually or
constructively 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all our
classes of stock entitled to vote, or (2) interest on the notes is
effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business.

Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.

Backup withholding will not apply to
payments of principal or interest made by us or our paying agent, in its
capacity as such, to you if you have provided the required certification that
you are a non-U.S. holder as described in “— U.S. Federal
Withholding Tax” above, and provided that neither we nor our paying agent have
actual knowledge that you are a U.S. holder, as described in
“— U.S. Holders” above. We or our paying agent may, however, report
payments of interest on the notes.

The gross proceeds from the disposition of your notes
may be subject to information reporting and backup withholding tax. If you sell
your notes outside the United States through a non-U.S. office of a non-U.S. broker
and the sales proceeds are paid to you outside the United States, then the U.S. backup withholding and information reporting requirements generally will not
apply to that payment. However, U.S. information reporting, but not backup
withholding, will apply to a payment of sales proceeds, even if that payment is
made outside the United States, if you sell your notes through a
non-U.S. office of a broker that:

•     is a U.S. person, as defined in the
Internal Revenue Code;

•     derives 50% or more of its gross income in
specific periods from the conduct of a trade or business in the United States;


•     is a “controlled
foreign corporation” for U.S. federal income tax purposes; or

•     is a foreign partnership, if at any time during
its tax year, one or more of its partners are U.S. persons who in the
aggregate hold more than 50% of the income or capital interests in the
partnership, or the foreign partnership is engaged in a U.S. trade or
business, unless the broker has documentary evidence in its files that you are
a non-U.S. person and certain other conditions are met or you otherwise
establish an exemption. If you receive payments of the proceeds of a sale of
your notes to or through a U.S. office of a broker, the payment is subject
to both U.S. backup withholding and information reporting unless you
provide a Form W-8BEN certifying that you are a non-U.S. person or
you otherwise establish an exemption.

You should consult your own tax advisor regarding
application of backup withholding in your particular circumstance and the
availability of and procedure for obtaining an exemption from backup
withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules from a
payment to you will be allowed as a refund or credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided the required information is furnished to
the Internal Revenue Service.

U.S. Federal Income and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our
Warrants

Exercise of Warrants.

You will not generally recognize gain or
loss upon the exercise of a warrant. Your basis in the debt securities,
preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be,
received upon the exercise of the warrant will be equal to the sum of your
adjusted tax basis in the warrant and the exercise price paid. Your holding
period in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares or common
stock, as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will not
include the period during which the warrant was held by you.

Expiration of Warrants.

Upon the expiration of a warrant, you will
recognize a capital loss in an amount equal to your adjusted tax basis in the
warrant.

Sale or
Exchange of Warrants.

Upon
the sale or exchange of a warrant to a person other than us, you will recognize
gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized
on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in the warrant. Such gain
or loss will be capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss
if the warrant was held for more than one year. Upon the sale of the warrant to
us, the Internal Revenue Service may argue that you should recognize ordinary
income on the sale. You are advised to consult your own tax advisors as to the
consequences of a sale of a warrant to us.

Potential
Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax Consequences

Current and prospective securities holders should
recognize that the present federal income tax treatment of an investment in us
may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time
and that any such action may affect investments and commitments previously
made. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under
review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal
Revenue Service and the Treasury Department, resulting in revisions of
regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts as well as
statutory changes. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations of these
laws could adversely affect the tax consequences of an investment in us.

State,
Local and Foreign Taxes

We, and holders of our debt and equity securities, may
be subject to state, local or foreign taxation in various jurisdictions,
including those in which we or they transact business, own property or reside.
It should be noted that we own properties located in a number of state, local
and foreign jurisdictions, and may be required to file tax returns in some or
all of those jurisdictions. The state, local or foreign tax treatment of us and
holders of our debt and equity securities may not conform to the U.S. federal
income tax consequences discussed above. Consequently, you are urged to consult
your advisor regarding the application and effect of state, local and foreign
tax laws with respect to any investment in our securities.

Internet Access to Our SEC
Filings

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to
those reports, as well as our proxy statements and other materials that are
filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission are made
available, free of charge, on the Internet at www.hcreit.com, as soon as
reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

Item 1A.

Risk
Factors

Forward-Looking
Statements and Risk Factors


This section discusses the most significant factors
that affect our business, operations and financial condition. It does not
describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership
of our securities. If any of the following risks, as well as other risks and
uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are not
material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. In that
event, the value of our securities could decline.

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents
incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute “forward-looking
statements” as that term is defined in the federal securities laws. These
forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those regarding:

•     the possible expansion
of our portfolio;

•     the sale of
properties;

•     the performance of our
operators/tenants and properties;

•     our ability to enter
into agreements with new viable tenants for vacant space or for properties that
we take back from financially troubled tenants, if any;

•     our occupancy rates;

•     our ability to
acquire, develop and/or manage properties;

•     our ability to make
distributions to stockholders;

•     our policies and plans
regarding investments, financings and other matters;

•     our ability to
successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and
operations;

•     our tax status as a
real estate investment trust;

•     our critical
accounting policies;

•     our ability to
appropriately balance the use of debt and equity;

•     our ability to access
capital markets or other sources of funds; and

•     our ability to meet
our earnings guidance.

When we use words such as “may,” “will,” “intend,”
“should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “estimate” or similar
expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking
statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and
uncertainties. Our expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may
differ materially from our expectations. This may be a result of various
factors, including, but not limited to:

•     the status of the
economy;

•     the status of capital
markets, including availability and cost of capital;

•     issues facing the
health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations
and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive
settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining
and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance;

•     changes in financing
terms;

•     competition within the
health care, seniors housing and life science industries;

•     negative developments
in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants, including,
but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans;

•     our ability to
transition or sell facilities with profitable results;


•     the
failure to make new investments as and when anticipated;

•     acts of God affecting
our properties;

•     our ability to
re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;

•     our ability to timely
reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold;

•     operator/tenant or
joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies;

•     the cooperation of
joint venture partners;

•     government regulations
affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational
requirements;

•     regulatory approval
and market acceptance of the products and technologies of life science tenants;

•     liability or contract
claims by or against operators/tenants;

•     unanticipated
difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions;

•     environmental laws
affecting our properties;

•     changes in rules or
practices governing our financial reporting;

•     the movement of U.S. and
Canadian exchange rates;

•     other legal and
operational matters, including REIT qualification and key management personnel
recruitment and retention; and

•     the risks described
below:

Risk factors related
to our operators’ revenues and expenses

Our operators’ revenues are primarily driven by
occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay
rates. Expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of
labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. Revenues
from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure
due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. Operating costs continue
to increase for our operators. To the extent that any decrease in revenues
and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating
enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of
other collateral would have to be relied upon.

The continued weakened economy may have an adverse
effect on our operators and tenants, including their ability to access credit
or maintain occupancy rates. If the operations, cash flows or financial
condition of our operators are materially adversely impacted by economic
conditions, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected.

Increased competition may affect our operators’
ability to meet their obligations to

us

The operators of our properties compete on a local and
regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers
that provide comparable services. We cannot be certain that the operators of
all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate
levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. Our
operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that
could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses.

Risk factors related to obligor bankruptcies

We are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not
be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us,
which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor
might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons.
Although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a
tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our
loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand
immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the
collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws
afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or
reorganization. An obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency


proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to
collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and
interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies.

We may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g.,
real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment
property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a
property to a new tenant. In some instances, we have terminated our lease with
a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. In some of those situations,
we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the
new obligor. If we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may
take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor
liabilities. Should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may
be adversely affected.

Transfers of health care facilities may require
regulatory approvals and these

facilities
may not have efficient alternative uses

Transfers of health care facilities to successor
operators frequently are subject to regulatory approvals or notifications,
including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals under certificate
of need (“CON”) or determination of need laws, state licensure laws and
Medicare and Medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for
transfers of other types of real estate. The replacement of a health care
facility operator could be delayed by the approval process of any federal,
state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement
of the operator licensed to manage the facility. Alternatively, given the
specialized nature of our facilities, we may be required to spend substantial
time and funds to adapt these properties to other uses. If we are unable to
timely transfer properties to successor operators or find efficient alternative
uses, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected.

Risk factors related to government regulations

Our obligors’ businesses are affected by government
reimbursement and private payor rates. To the extent that an operator/tenant
receives a significant portion of its revenues from government payors,
primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and
regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program
overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations,
payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government
funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific
facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing
government investigations and audits at such property. In recent years,
government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due
to budgetary pressures. Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of
paramount importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any
assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms
may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. There can
be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for
services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives
reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on
the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have
a material adverse effect on an obligor’s liquidity, financial condition and
results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor
to meet its obligations to us. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain
Government Regulations — Reimbursement” above.

Our operators and tenants generally are subject to
extensive federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure,
certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards.  Our operators’
or tenants’ failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards
could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of
fines, suspension or decertification from federal and state health care
programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. Such actions may have an
effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make lease payments to us and,
therefore, adversely impact us. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain
Government Regulations — Other Related Laws” above.

Many of our properties may require a license,
registration, and/or CON to operate. Failure to obtain a license, registration,
or CON, or loss of a required license, registration, or CON would prevent a
facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants.
These events could materially adversely affect our operators’ or tenants’
ability to make rent payments to us.  State and local laws also may regulate
the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of
medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care
facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar approval from a state agency.
See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations —
Licensing and Certification” above.

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
(“ARRA”), which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, provided
$87 billion in additional federal Medicaid funding for states’ Medicaid
expenditures between October 1, 2008 and December 31, 2010.  On
August 10, 2010, the President signed into law H.R. 1586, which mandated a
six-month extension of the increase in federal Medicaid funding for states
through June 30, 2011, although the enhanced federal Medicaid funding was
scaled back for the first two quarters of 2011. Under both the ARRA and H.R.
1586, states meeting certain eligibility requirements temporarily received
additional money in the form of an increase in the federal medical assistance
percentage (“FMAP”). Thus, for a limited period of time, the share of Medicaid
costs that were paid for by the federal government went up, and each state’s
share went down.  No similar extension of increased matching has been offered
since June 30, 2011, and states’ FMAP rates have returned to levels comparable
to pre-ARRA rates. We cannot predict whether states are, or will remain,
eligible to receive the additional federal Medicaid funding, or whether the


states will have sufficient funds for their Medicaid
programs. We also cannot predict the impact that such broad-based, far-reaching
legislation will have on the U.S. economy or our business.

Risk factors related to liability claims and insurance
costs

In recent years, skilled nursing and seniors housing
operators have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of
patient care liability claims. As a result, general and professional liability
costs have increased in some markets. General and professional liability
insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect
the property operators’ future operations, cash flows and financial condition,
and may have a material adverse effect on the property operators’ ability to
meet their obligations to us.

Risk factors related to acquisitions

We are exposed to the risk that some of our
acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated
difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including
contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant
management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business.
If we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the
project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the
project. Moreover, if we issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or
both, to finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial
results. These costs may negatively affect our results of operations.

Unfavorable resolution of pending and future
litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition.

From time to time, we may be directly involved in a
number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. We may also be named as
defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of
our operators/tenants or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers
have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various
claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective
businesses. An unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation may have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition. Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial
costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. There
can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable
settlement of, pending or future litigation. In addition, pending litigation or
future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead
to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations.

Risk factors related to joint ventures

We have entered into, and may continue in the future
to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities.
Joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other
methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become
insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to
meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for
guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have
economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent
with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our
partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such
disputes and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability
of the joint venture; and that our partner may be in a position to take action or
withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. In addition, our
ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be
restricted. In some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to
trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or
acquire our partner’s interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have
initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our partner’s interest may
be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or
other capital resources. In such event, we may be forced to sell our interest
in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. Joint
ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which
could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures. Even
when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require
partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property.

Risk factors related to our seniors housing operating
properties

We are exposed to various operational risks with
respect to our seniors housing operating properties that may increase our costs
or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues.  These risks include
fluctuations in occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable,
and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local,
and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws,
regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general
and professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of
residents related to entrance fees; the availability and increases in cost of
labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise).  Any one or a combination of
these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations.


Risk factors related
to life science facilities

Our tenants in the life science industry face high
levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty that may adversely affect their
ability to make payments to us. Research, development and clinical testing of
products and technologies can be very expensive and sources of funds may not be
available to our life sciences tenants in the future. The products and
technologies that are developed and manufactured by our life science tenants
may require regulatory approval prior to being made, marketed, sold and used.
The regulatory process can be costly, long and unpredictable. Even after a
tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product still
presents regulatory and liability risks, such as safety concerns, competition
from new products and eventually the expiration of patent protection. These
factors may affect the ability of our life sciences tenants to make timely
payments to us, which may adversely affect our revenue and operations.

Risk factors related to indebtedness

Permanent financing for our investments is typically
provided through a combination of public and private offerings of debt and
equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. The
incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged,
which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow
to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn
in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or
(4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the
rating agencies.

Our debt agreements contain various covenants,
restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions
require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and
impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and
make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants could result in
defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in
addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments.
These defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

Risk factors related to our credit ratings

We plan to manage the Company to maintain a capital
structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance
that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. Any downgrades in
terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a
material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in
turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations,
liquidity and/or financial condition.

Risk factors related to interest rate swaps

We enter into interest rate swap agreements from time
to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility. These swap
agreements involve risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to
honor their obligations under these arrangements. In addition, these
arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to changes in
interest rates. When we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a
risk that we will not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap
is intended to hedge. If such events occur, our results of operations may be
adversely affected.

Risk factors related to environmental laws

Under various federal and state laws, owners or
operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release
of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property
damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination
or exposure to hazardous substances. We may become liable to reimburse the
government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the
contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the
person’s relationship to the property. Our tenants or borrowers are primarily
responsible for the condition of the property. Moreover, we review
environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior
to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to meet the “all
appropriate inquiry” standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent
purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such
assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to
material environmental contamination. However, environmental liabilities may be
present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination,
which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial
condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors.

Risk factors related to facilities that require
entrance fees

Certain of our seniors housing facilities require the
payment of an upfront entrance fee by the resident, a portion of which may be
refundable by the operator. Some of these facilities are subject to substantial
oversight by state regulators relating to these funds. As a result of this
oversight, residents of these facilities may have a variety of rights,
including, for example, the right to cancel their


contracts
within a specified period of time and certain lien rights. The oversight and
rights of residents within these facilities may have an effect on the revenue
or operations of the operators of such facilities and therefore may negatively
impact us.

Risk factors related to facilities under construction
or development

At any given time, we may be in the process of
constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a CON and
license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. The
operator also may need to obtain Medicare and Medicaid certification and enter
into Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor
contracts. In the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary
CON, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the
completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn
any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a
license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider
agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is
able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the
necessary provider agreements or contracts.

In connection with our renovation, redevelopment,
development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or
suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and
other required governmental permits and authorizations. These factors could
result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. In addition, we
may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us
unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to
complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could
result in increased debt service expense or construction costs.

Additionally, the time frame required for development,
construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait
years for significant cash returns. Because we are required to make cash
distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or
refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to
fund such distributions. Newly developed and acquired properties may not
produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall
financial performance.

In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular
property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that
property. In particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on
expected occupancy and rental rates. If our financial projections with respect
to a new property are inaccurate, and the property is unable to achieve the
expected occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we expected in
analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs of repositioning or
redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate, which may result
in our failure to meet our profitability goals. Additionally, we may acquire
new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing
operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service
associated with that property.

We do not know if our tenants will renew their
existing leases, and if they do not,

we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all

We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew
existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times.
If these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to
occupy those properties or sell them. There can be no assurance that we would
be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new
tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be
able to lease those properties at all.

Our ownership of properties through ground leases
exposes us to the loss of such

properties
upon breach or termination of the ground leases

We have acquired an interest in certain of our
properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the
building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future
through the purchase of interests in ground leases. As the lessee under a
ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon
termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us.

Illiquidity of real estate investments could
significantly impede our ability to

respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our
ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to
changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. No assurances can be
given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required
to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in
the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations. In addition, we are exposed to the risks
inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the
seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate
industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to
sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us.

Risk factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds


From time to time, we will have cash available from
(1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments
on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including
non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar
financial support arrangements. In order to maintain current revenues and
continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these proceeds
in a timely manner. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety
of potential investors. This competition for attractive investments may
negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to
us.

Failure to properly manage our rapid growth could
distract our management or increase

our expenses

We have experienced rapid growth and development in a
relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the
future. This growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our
management. Future property acquisitions could place significant additional
demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel.
Our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business
and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to
stockholders. Our growth could also increase our capital requirements, which
may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur
additional debt.

Ownership of property outside the United States may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our domestic
operations

International development, ownership, and operating
activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to
our domestic properties and operations.  These risks include, but are not
limited to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes
in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95%
gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and
maintain our status as a REIT;

challenges with respect to the
repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; changes in foreign political,
regulatory, and economic conditions, including regionally, nationally, and
locally; challenges in managing international operations; challenges of
complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those
relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment
and legal proceedings;

foreign ownership restrictions with
respect to operations in countries; differences in lending practices and the
willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing; regional or
country-specific business cycles and economic instability; and changes in
applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign
operations.  If we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with
international expansion and operations, our results of operations and financial
condition may be adversely affected.

Risk factors related to changes in currency exchange
rates

As we expand our operations internationally, currency
exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial
position.  We expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and
expenses in such foreign currencies as the Canadian dollar.  Although we may
enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or
obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to
fluctuations in the value of foreign
currencies,
we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a
material adverse effect on us.

We might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT

We intend to operate as a REIT under the Internal
Revenue Code and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner.
If we lose our status as a REIT, we will face serious income tax consequences
that will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our
obligations and for distribution to our stockholders because:

•     we would not be
allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable
income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate
rates;

•     we could be subject to
the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local
taxes; and

•     unless we are entitled
to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax
as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were
disqualified.

Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number
of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if
we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of U.S. federal and other
income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could
distribute to our stockholders. If we do not qualify as a REIT, we would not be
required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-REIT is not required
to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain REIT status or avoid an
excise tax. See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal
Income Tax Considerations” for a discussion of the provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code that apply to us and the effects of failure to qualify as a REIT.


In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all
distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the
extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate
stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and
individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally
applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 15%) with
respect to distributions.

As a result of all these factors, our failure to
qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business
strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock.

Qualification as a REIT involves the application of
highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there
are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination
of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control
may affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we believe that
we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or
remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. See
“Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax
Considerations” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease
our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial
transactions

To comply with the 90% distribution requirement
applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make
distributions to our stockholders. See “Item 1 — Business
— Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification
as a REIT — Annual Distribution Requirements” included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. Although we anticipate that we generally will have
sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution
requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient
cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may
decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to
avoid income and excise taxation. This may be due to timing differences between
the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the
one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in
arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible
expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures
in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash
or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In
the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain
cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we
cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends,
if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in another
transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements.
This may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations.

The amount of additional indebtedness we may incur is
limited by the terms of our line of credit arrangement and the indentures
governing our senior unsecured notes. In addition, adverse economic conditions
may impact the availability of additional funds or could cause the terms on
which we are able to borrow additional funds to become unfavorable. In those
circumstances, we may be required to raise additional equity in the capital
markets. Our access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we
have little or no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other
general market conditions and the market’s perception of our growth potential
and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the
market price of the shares of our capital stock. We cannot assure you that we
will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to
meet our obligations and commitments as they mature.

The lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable
REIT subsidiary is subject to special requirements

We lease certain qualified health care properties we
acquire to taxable REIT subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which
the taxable REIT subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers
(or related parties) to manage the health care operations at these properties. 
The rents from this taxable REIT subsidiary lessee structure are treated as
qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an
arms-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable REIT
subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent
contractor.  If any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will
not be qualifying rents.  See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal Income
Tax Considerations — Qualification as a REIT — Income Tests.”

If certain sale-leaseback transactions are not
characterized by the Internal Revenue Service as “true leases,” we may be
subject to adverse tax consequences

We have purchased certain properties and leased them
back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter similar transactions
in the future. We intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be
structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a “true
lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for U.S.
federal income tax purposes. However, depending on the terms of any specific
transaction, the Internal Revenue Service might take the position that the
transaction is not a “true lease” but is more properly treated in some other
manner. In the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and
successfully re-characterized by the Internal Revenue Service, we would not be
entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and cost recovery generally
available to an owner of property. Furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction
were so re-characterized, we


might fail to satisfy the REIT asset tests or income
tests and, consequently, could lose our REIT status effective with the year of
re-characterization.  See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax
Considerations — Qualification as a REIT — Asset Tests” and “— Income Tests.”
Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated,
which may cause us to fail to meet the REIT annual distribution requirements
for a taxable year.  See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax
Considerations — Qualification as a REIT — Annual Distribution Requirements.”

Other risk factors

We are also subject to other risks. First, our certificate
of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on
share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval
requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for
or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our
incumbent Board of Directors. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or
discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock.

Additionally, we are dependent on key personnel.
Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive
officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse
impact on our operations. We believe that losing more than one could have a
material adverse impact on our business.

Item 1B.

Unresolved
Staff Comments

None.


Item 2.

Properties

We own our corporate
headquarters located at 4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615. We also own
corporate offices in Tennessee, lease corporate offices in Florida and
California and have ground leases relating to certain of our properties. The
following table sets forth certain information regarding the properties that
comprise our consolidated real property and real estate loan investments as of
December 31, 2011 (dollars in thousands):

Seniors
  Housing Triple-Net

Property Location

Number
  of Properties

(2)

Total
  Investment

Annualized
  Income

(1)

Alabama


$

2,733

$


Arizona


21,029

2,318

California


44,296

9,768

Colorado


97,493

11,279

Connecticut


225,515

23,539

Delaware


152,039

14,474

Florida


533,093

50,338

Georgia


75,319

5,849

Idaho


38,119

5,426

Illinois


161,360

14,818

Indiana


256,037

26,087

Iowa


8,800


Kansas


110,092

9,201

Kentucky


57,902

8,275

Louisiana


5,411

1,396

Maryland


336,982

26,808

Massachusetts


468,485

52,241

Michigan


106,596

8,210

Minnesota


35,392

2,823

Mississippi


51,507

5,703

Missouri


26,597

2,025

Montana


12,542

2,010

Nebraska


38,215

4,088

Nevada


79,611

9,666

New Hampshire


192,468

18,931

New Jersey


1,150,170

92,993

New York


165,329

15,742

North Carolina


196,495

27,892

Ohio


366,441

32,551

Oklahoma


50,420

6,476

Oregon


7,174

1,854

Pennsylvania


763,939

72,392

Rhode Island


48,814

4,804

South Carolina


248,563

17,191

Tennessee


201,574

28,837

Texas


391,219

43,111

Utah


6,353


Vermont


28,418

2,798

Virginia


129,459

14,794

Washington


107,972

11,044

West Virginia


406,133

39,342

Wisconsin


151,183

15,261

Total


$

7,557,287

$

744,564

(1) Reflects annualized recent month of resident fees and
  services, contract rate of interest for loans, annual straight-line rent for
  leases with fixed escalators or annual cash rent for leases with contingent
  escalators, net of collectibility reserves if applicable.

(2) Excludes unconsolidated entities.


Seniors
  Housing Operating

Medical
  Facilities

Property Location

Number
  of Properties

(2)

Total
  Investment

Annualized
  Income

(1)

Number
  of Properties

(2)

Total
  Investment

Annualized
  Income

(1)

Alabama


$

18,357

$

5,160


$

37,302

$

4,732

Alaska

-

-

-


25,594

3,468

Arizona


14,371

9,001


89,874

10,846

Arkansas

-

-

-


29,784

2,642

California


796,594

173,320


520,589

59,672

Colorado

-

-

-


6,218


Connecticut


361,558

100,681

-

-

-

Florida


6,904

3,819


473,760

41,877

Georgia


13,961

7,301


151,262

17,291

Idaho

-

-

-


21,977

2,616

Illinois


68,514

9,209


14,672


Indiana

-

-

-


82,379

9,021

Iowa


36,952

4,995

-

-

-

Kansas

-

-

-


47,516

6,023

Kentucky

-

-

-


28,248

4,366

Louisiana

-

-

-


20,806

1,789

Maine


26,536

5,386


25,393

2,590

Massachusetts


331,365

77,882


11,363

-

Minnesota

-

-

-


85,347

10,560

Missouri


74,130

8,285


162,604

12,931

Nebraska

-

-

-


154,578

17,608

Nevada


36,336

8,075


127,064

10,417

New Hampshire


52,589

11,358

-

-

-

New Jersey

-

-

-


219,231

17,446

New Mexico


20,801

1,315


40,280

3,934

New York

-

-

-


90,353

9,257

North Carolina

-

-

-


32,268

1,803

Ohio


88,614

7,604


56,882

8,923

Oklahoma


42,182

2,333


21,562

2,335

Pennsylvania

-

-

-


17,848

10,469

Rhode Island


78,910

23,114

-

-

-

South Carolina

-

-

-


8,907

1,128

Tennessee

-

-

-


99,543

10,663

Texas


112,445

37,342


430,539

43,116

Utah


18,951

8,392

-

-

-

Vermont


30,024

6,451

-

-

-

Virginia

-

-

-


40,846

3,996

Washington


561,994

78,088


104,206

7,513

Wisconsin

-

-

-


314,178

29,862

Total


$

2,792,088

$

589,109


$

3,592,975

$

370,028

(1) Reflects annualized recent month of resident fees and
  services, contract rate of interest for loans, annual straight-line rent for
  leases with fixed escalators or annual cash rent for leases with contingent
  escalators, net of collectibility reserves if applicable.

(2) Excludes unconsolidated entities.


The following table sets forth occupancy and average
annualized income for these property types:

Occupancy

(1)

Average
  Annualized Income

(2)





Seniors housing triple net

88.2%

88.9%

$

14,428

$

16,241

per unit

Skilled nursing/post-acute

88.0%

84.9%

9,583

6,519

per bed

Seniors housing operating

90.1%

91.9%

47,432

30,458

per unit

Hospitals

59.0%

62.9%

43,929

30,951

per bed

Medical office buildings

93.4%

93.1%



per sq. ft.

(1) Medical office building occupancy represents the percentage
  of total rentable square feet leased and occupied (including month-to-month
  and holdover leases and excluding terminations and discontinued operations)
  as of December 31. Occupancy for seniors housing operating represents
  occupancy as of December 31.  Occupancy for other properties represents
  average quarterly operating occupancy based on the quarters ended September
  30 and excludes properties that are unstabilized, closed or for which data is
  not available or meaningful. The Company uses unaudited, periodic financial
  information provided solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate occupancy for
  properties other than medical office buildings and has not independently
  verified the information.

(2) Average annualized income represents annualized income
  divided by total beds, units or square feet.

The following table sets forth information regarding
lease expirations for certain portions of our portfolio as of December 31, 2011
(dollars in thousands):

Expiration
  Year











Thereafter

Seniors housing triple-net:

Properties





-







Base rent

(1)

$

13,382

$

52,944

$

27,423

$

2,026

$

-

$

16,923

$

36,823

$

28,397

$

40,482

$

61,317

$

418,794

% of base rent

1.9%

7.6%

3.9%

0.3%

0.0%

2.4%

5.3%

4.1%

5.8%

8.8%

60.0%

Hospitals:

Properties

-

-

-

-

-


-

-


-


Base rent

(1)

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

2,350

$

$

-

$

5,959

$

-

$

72,653

% of base rent

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

2.9%

0.0%

0.0%

7.4%

0.0%

89.7%

Medical office buildings:

Square feet

600,231

508,617

551,737

463,525

841,189

671,729

413,574

538,893

416,013

694,015

4,107,804

Base rent

(1)

$

15,083

$

11,621

$

11,647

$

10,023

$

19,302

$

15,500

$

9,151

$

12,765

$

11,036

$

16,170

$

87,791

% of base rent

6.9%

5.3%

5.3%

4.6%

8.8%

7.0%

4.2%

5.8%

5.0%

7.3%

39.9%

(1) The most recent monthly base rent including straight line
  for leases with fixed escalators or annual cash rents with contingent
  escalators.  Base rent does not include tenant recoveries or amortization of
  above and below market lease intangibles.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

From time to time, there
are various legal proceedings pending to which we are a party or to which some
of our properties are subject arising in the normal course of business. We do
not believe that the ultimate resolution of these proceedings will have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common
Equity, Related Stockholder

Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

There were 5,030 stockholders
of record as of January 31, 2012. The following table sets forth, for the
periods indicated, the high and low prices of our common stock on the New York
Stock Exchange, as reported on the Composite Tape, and common dividends paid
per share:


Sales
  Price

Dividends

High

Low

Paid


First Quarter

$

52.74

$

46.75

$

0.690

Second Quarter

55.21

49.79

0.715

Third Quarter

54.63

41.03

0.715

Fourth Quarter

55.17

43.65

0.715


First Quarter

$

46.79

$

39.82

$

0.680

Second Quarter

46.44

38.42

0.690

Third Quarter

48.54

40.85

0.690

Fourth Quarter

52.06

44.07

0.690

Our Board of Directors has
approved a new quarterly cash dividend rate of $0.74 per share of common stock
per quarter, commencing with the February 2012 dividend. The declaration and
payment of quarterly dividends remains subject to the review and approval of
the Board of Directors.

Stockholder Return Performance Presentation

Set forth below is a line
graph comparing the yearly percentage change and the cumulative total
stockholder return on our shares of common stock against the cumulative total
return of the S & P Composite-500 Stock Index and the FTSE NAREIT
Equity Index. As of December 31, 2011, 120 companies comprised the FTSE
NAREIT Equity Index. The Index consists of REITs identified by NAREIT as equity
(those REITs which have at least 75% of their investments in real property).
Upon written request sent to the Senior Vice President-Administration and
Corporate Secretary, Health Care REIT, Inc., 4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio,
43615-4040, we will provide stockholders with the names of the component
issuers. The data are based on the closing prices as of December 31 for each of
the five years. 2006 equals $100 and dividends are assumed to be reinvested.

Except to the extent that we specifically incorporate
this information by reference, the foregoing Stockholder Return Performance
Presentation shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general
statement incorporating by reference this Annual Report on Form 10-K into
any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. This information shall not
otherwise be deemed filed under such acts.


Item 6.

Selected
Financial Data

The following selected financial data for the five
years ended December 31, 2011 are derived from our audited consolidated financial
statements (in thousands, except per share data):

Year
  Ended December 31,






Operating Data

Revenues

(1)

$

392,988

$

483,010

$

523,288

$

657,297

$

1,421,162

Expenses:

Interest expense

(1)

120,210

119,279

96,856

151,296

318,395

Depreciation and amortization

(1)

109,668

127,992

140,692

186,963

418,406

Property operating expenses

(1)

32,494

39,648

42,501

79,293

379,476

General and administrative

(1)

37,465

47,193

49,691

54,626

77,201

Transaction costs

-

-

-

46,660

70,224

Provision for loan losses

-


23,261

29,684

2,010

Realized loss on derivatives

-

23,393

-

-

-

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt

(1,081)

(2,094)

25,107

34,171

(979)

Total expenses

298,756

355,505

378,108

582,693

1,264,733

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and income
  from unconsolidated entities

94,232

127,505

145,180

74,604

156,429

Income tax expense

(188)

(1,306)

(168)

(364)

(1,388)

Income from unconsolidated entities

-

-

-

6,673

5,772

Income from continuing operations

94,044

126,199

145,012

80,913

160,813

Income from discontinued operations, net

(1)

44,549

157,226

47,915

47,971

51,903

Net income

138,593

283,425

192,927

128,884

212,716

Preferred stock dividends

25,130

23,201

22,079

21,645

60,502

Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests



(342)


(4,894)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

113,225

$

260,098

$

171,190

$

106,882

$

157,108

Other Data

Average number of common shares outstanding:

Basic

78,861

93,732

114,207

127,656

173,741

Diluted

79,409

94,309

114,612

128,208

174,401

Per Share Data

Basic:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common
  stockholders

$

0.87

$

1.10

$

1.08

$

0.46

$

0.61

Discontinued operations, net

0.56

1.68

0.42

0.38

0.30

Net income attributable to common stockholders *

$

1.44

$

2.77

$

1.50

$

0.84

$

0.90

Diluted:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common
  stockholders

$

0.86

$

1.09

$

1.08

$

0.46

$

0.60

Discontinued operations, net

0.56

1.67

0.42

0.37

0.30

Net income attributable to common stockholders *

$

1.43

$

2.76

$

1.49

$

0.83

$

0.90

Cash distributions per common share

$

2.2791

$

2.70

$

2.72

$

2.74

$

2.835

* Amounts may not sum due to rounding

(1) We have reclassified
  the income and expenses attributable to properties sold prior to or held for
  sale at December 31, 2011, to discontinued operations for all periods
  presented. See Note 5 to our audited consolidated financial statements.

December
  31,

Balance Sheet Data






Net real estate investments

$

5,012,620

$

5,854,179

$

6,080,620

$

8,590,833

$

13,942,350

Total assets

5,219,240

6,215,031

6,367,186

9,451,734

14,924,606

Total long-term obligations

2,683,760

2,847,676

2,414,022

4,469,736

7,240,752

Total liabilities

2,784,289

2,976,746

2,559,735

4,714,081

7,612,309

Total preferred stock

330,243

289,929

288,683

291,667

1,010,417

Total equity

2,434,951

3,238,285

3,807,451

4,733,100

7,278,647


The following discussion and
analysis is based primarily on the consolidated financial statements of Health
Care REIT, Inc. for the periods presented and should be read together with the
notes thereto contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other
important factors are identified in “Item 1 — Business” and
“Item 1A — Risk Factors” above.

Executive
Summary

Company
Overview

Health
Care REIT, Inc. is a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) that has been at the
forefront of seniors housing and health care real estate since the company was
founded in 1970.  We are an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio
and our portfolio spans the full spectrum of seniors housing and health care
real estate, including seniors housing communities, skilled nursing facilities,
medical office buildings, inpatient and outpatient medical centers and life
science facilities. Our capital programs, when combined with comprehensive
planning, development and property management services, make us a single-source
solution for acquiring, planning, developing, managing, repositioning and
monetizing real estate assets.  The following table summarizes our portfolio as
of December 31, 2011:

Investments

Percentage
  of

Number
  of

#
  Beds/Units

Investment
  per

Type
  of Property

(in
  thousands)

Investments

Properties

or
  Sq. Ft.

metric

(1)

States

Seniors housing triple-net

$

4,029,818

28.1%


25,133

units

$

163,293

per unit


Skilled nursing/post-acute

3,527,468

24.6%


39,825

beds

89,997

per bed


Seniors housing operating

2,792,088

19.5%


12,420

units

224,806

per unit


Hospitals

911,482

6.4%


2,165

beds

421,007

per bed


Medical office buildings

(2)

2,727,450

19.0%


11,276,994

sq. ft.


per sq. ft.


Life science buildings

(2)

337,800

2.4%


n/a


Totals

$

14,326,106

100.0%



(1) Investment per metric was computed by using the total
  committed investment amount of $14,609,005,000, which includes net real
  estate investments, our share of investments in unconsolidated entities and
  unfunded construction commitments for which initial funding has commenced
  which amounted to $13,942,350,000, $383,756,000 and $282,899,000,
  respectively.

(2) Includes our share of investments in unconsolidated
  entities. Please see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for
  additional information.

Health Care Industry

The demand for health care services,
and consequently health care properties, is projected to reach unprecedented
levels in the near future.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
(“CMS”) projects that national health expenditures will rise to $3.5 trillion
in 2015 or 18.2% of gross domestic product (“GDP”).  The average annual growth
in national health expenditures for 2009 through 2019 is expected to be 6.3%,
which is 0.2% faster than pre-health care reform estimates.

While demographics are the primary
driver of demand, economic conditions and availability of services contribute
to health care service utilization rates.  We believe the health care property
market may be less susceptible to fluctuations and economic downturns relative
to other property sectors.  Investor interest in the market remains strong,
especially in specific sectors such as medical office buildings, regardless of
the current stringent lending environment.  As a REIT, we believe we are
situated to benefit from any turbulence in the capital markets due to our
access to capital.

The total U.S. population is
projected to increase by 20.4% through 2030.  The elderly population aged 65
and over is projected to increase by 79.2% through 2030.  The elderly are an
important component of health care utilization, especially independent living
services, assisted living services, skilled nursing services, inpatient and
outpatient hospital services and physician ambulatory care.  Most health care
services are provided within a health care facility such as a hospital, a
physician’s office or a seniors housing facility.  Therefore, we believe there
will be continued demand for companies, such as ours, with expertise in health
care real estate.

The following chart illustrates the
projected increase in the elderly population aged 65 and over:


Source:
U.S. Census Bureau

Health care real estate investment
opportunities tend to increase as demand for health care services increases. 
We recognize the need for health care real estate as it correlates to health
care service demand.  Health care providers require real estate to house their
businesses and expand their services.  We believe that investment opportunities
in health care real estate will continue to be present due to:

·

The specialized nature
of the industry;

·

The projected
population growth combined with stable or increasing health care utilization
rates, which ensures demand; and

·

The on-going merger
and acquisition activity.

Health Reform Laws

On March 23, 2010, the President
signed into law the PPACA and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act
of 2010, which amends the PPACA (collectively, the “Health Reform Laws”). The
Health Reform Laws contain various provisions that may directly impact us or
the operators and tenants of our properties. Some provisions of the Health Reform
Laws may have a positive impact on our operators’ or tenants’ revenues, by, for
example, increasing coverage of uninsured individuals, while others may have a
negative impact on the reimbursement of our operators or tenants by, for
example, altering the market basket adjustments for certain types of health
care facilities. The Health Reform Laws also enhance certain fraud and abuse
penalty provisions that could apply to our operators and tenants, in the event
of one or more violations of the federal health care regulatory laws. In
addition, there are provisions that impact the health coverage that we and our
operators and tenants provide to our respective employees. We cannot predict
whether the existing Health Reform Laws, or future health care reform legislation
or regulatory changes, will have a material impact on our operators’ or
tenants’ property or business. If the operations, cash flows or financial
condition of our operators and tenants are materially adversely impacted by the
Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our revenue and operations may be
adversely affected as well. Further, on February 2, 2011, the U.S. Senate
refused to pass an overhaul repeal of the Health Reform Laws, and the focus has
now shifted to attempts to repeal or amend individual sections of the Health
Reform Laws. Further, federal courts are also considering, and in some cases
have ruled on, the legality of the Health Reform Laws.  The United States
Supreme Court has agreed to review the constitutionality of the Health Reform
Laws and will hear arguments beginning March 26, 2012.  We cannot predict
whether any of these attempts to repeal or amend the Health Reform Laws will be
successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a repeal or amendment would
have on our operators and tenants.

Impact to Reimbursement of the Operators and Tenants of
Our Properties

. The Health Reform Laws provide for various changes to the
reimbursement that our operators and tenants may receive. One such change is a
reduction to the market basket adjustments for inpatient acute hospitals,
long-term care hospitals, inpatient rehabilitation facilities, home health
agencies, psychiatric hospitals, hospice care and outpatient hospitals.
Beginning in 2010, the otherwise applicable percentage increase to the market
basket for inpatient acute hospitals will decrease. Beginning in 2012,
inpatient acute hospitals will also face a downward adjustment of the annual
percentage increase to the market basket rate by a “productivity adjustment.”
The productivity adjustment may cause the annual percentage increase to be less
than zero, which would mean that inpatient acute hospitals could face payment
rates for a fiscal year that are less than the payment rates for the preceding
year.

A similar productivity adjustment also applies to skilled
nursing facilities beginning in 2012, which means that the payment rates for
skilled nursing facilities may decrease from one year to the next. Long-term
care hospitals have faced a specified percentage decrease in their annual
update for discharges since 2010. Additionally, beginning in 2012, long-term
care hospitals will be subject to


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

the productivity
adjustments, which may decrease the federal payment rates for long-term care
hospitals. Similar productivity adjustments and other adjustments to payment
rates have applied to inpatient rehabilitation facilities, psychiatric
hospitals and outpatient hospitals since 2010.

The Health Reform Laws revise other reimbursement provisions
that may affect our business. For example, the Health Reform Laws reduce
states’ Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (“DSH”) allotments, starting
in 2014 through 2020. These allotments would have provided additional funding
for DSH hospitals that are operators or tenants of our properties, and thus,
any reduction might negatively impact these operators or tenants.

Additionally, beginning in fiscal year 2015, Medicare
payments will decrease to hospitals for treatment associated with hospital
acquired conditions. This decreased payment rate may negatively impact our
operators or tenants. To account for excess readmissions, the Health Reform
Laws also call for a reduction of 1% in payments for those hospitals with
higher-than-average risk-adjusted readmission rates beginning October 1, 2012,
2% beginning in fiscal year 2014, and 3% from fiscal year 2015 onward.  These
reductions in payments to our operators or tenants may affect their ability to
make payments to us.

PPACA additionally calls for the creation of the Independent
Payment Advisory Board (the “Board”), which will be responsible for
establishing payment polices, including recommendations in the event that
Medicare costs exceed a certain threshold. Proposals for recommendations
submitted by the Board prior to December 31, 2018 may not include
recommendations that would reduce payments for hospitals, skilled nursing
facilities, and physicians, among other providers, prior to December 31, 2019.
The Health Reform Laws also create other mechanisms that could permit significant
changes to payment. For example, PPACA establishes the Center for Medicare and
Medicaid Innovation to test innovative payment and service delivery models to
reduce program expenditures through the use of demonstration programs that can
waive existing reimbursement methodologies. As another example, on November 2,
2011, CMS published the final rule implementing section 3022 of the PPACA,
which contains provisions relating to Medicare payment to providers and
suppliers participating in Accountable Care Organizations (“ACOs”) under the
Medicare Shared Servings Program.  Under the program, Medicare will share a
percentage of savings with ACOs that meet certain quality and saving
requirements, thereby allowing providers to receive incentive payments in addition
to their traditional fee-for-service payments. Under the program, more
experienced providers may assume the risk of losses in exchange for greater
potential rewards: ACOs may share up to 50% of the savings under the one-sided
model and up to 60% of the savings under the two-sided model, depending on
their quality and performance.  The amount of shared losses for which an ACO is
liable in the two-sided model may not exceed the following percentages of its
updated benchmark: 5% in the first performance year, 7.5% in the second year,
and 10% in the third year.  These shared losses could affect the ability of ACO
operators or tenants to meet their financial obligations to us.  The Health
Reform Laws also provide additional Medicaid funding to allow states to carry
out mandated expansion of Medicaid coverage to certain financially-eligible
individuals beginning in 2014, and also permits states to expand their Medicaid
coverage to these individuals as early as April 1, 2010, if certain conditions
are met.  The Health Reform Laws also extend certain payment rules related to
long-term acute care hospitals found in the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP
Extension Act of 2007.

Additionally, although the Health Reform Laws delayed until
at least October 1, 2011, the implementation of the Resource Utilization Group,
Version Four (“RUG-IV”), which revises the payment classification system for
skilled nursing facilities, the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010
repealed this delay retroactively to October 1, 2010. The Health Reform Laws
also extend certain payment rules related to long-term acute care hospitals
found in the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007.

Finally, many other changes resulting from the Health Reform
Laws, or implementing regulations, or guidance may negatively impact our
operators and tenants. We will continue to monitor and evaluate the Health
Reform Laws and implementing regulations and guidance to determine other
potential effects of the reform.

Impact of Fraud and Abuse Provisions

. The Health
Reform Laws revise health care fraud and abuse provisions that will affect our
operators and tenants. Specifically, PPACA allows for up to treble damages
under the Federal False Claims Act for violations related to state-based health
insurance exchanges authorized by the Health Reform Laws, which will be
implemented beginning in 2014. The Health Reform Laws also impose new civil
monetary penalties for false statements or actions that lead to delayed
inspections, with penalties of up to $15,000 per day for failure to grant
timely access and up to $50,000 for a knowing violation. Additionally, the
PPACA requires certain entities – including providers, suppliers, Medicaid
managed care organizations, Medicare Advantage organizations, and prescription
drug program sponsors – to report and return overpayments to the appropriate
payer by the later of (a) sixty (60) days after the date the overpayment was
“identified,” or (b) the date that the “corresponding cost report” is due.  The
entity also must notify the payer in writing of the reason for the overpayment.
A violation of these requirements may result in criminal liability, civil
liability under the FCA, and/or exclusion from the federal health care
programs.  On February 14, 2012, CMS published a proposed rule implementing the
PPACA requirement that health care providers and suppliers report and return
self-identified overpayments by the later of 60 days after the date the
overpayment was identified, or the date any corresponding cost report is due,
if


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

applicable. The Health Reform Laws also amend the
Federal Anti-Kickback Statute to state that any items or services “resulting
from” a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a “false or
fraudulent claim” under the Federal False Claims Act.  The Health Reform Laws
also provide for additional funding to investigate and prosecute health care
fraud and abuse. Accordingly, the increased penalties under PPACA for fraud and
abuse violations may have a negative impact on our operators and tenants in the
event that the government brings an enforcement action or subjects them to
penalties.

Further, as recently as February 2, 2011, CMS published final
rulemaking to implement the enhanced provider and supplier screening provisions
called for in the Health Reform Laws. Under the final rule, beginning March 25,
2011, all enrolling and participating providers and suppliers are assessed an
annual administrative fee and are placed in one of three risk levels (limited,
moderate, and high) based on an assessment of the individual’s or entity’s
overall risk of fraud, waste and abuse. This rule also allows for the temporary
suspension of Medicare payments to providers or suppliers in the event CMS
receives credible information that an overpayment, fraud, or willful
misrepresentation has occurred. The Health Reform Laws granted the Secretary of
the Department of Health and Human Services significant discretionary authority
to suspend, exclude, or impose fines on providers and suppliers based on the
agency’s determination that such a provider or supplier is “high-risk,” and, as
a result, this final rulemaking has the potential to materially adversely
affect our operators and tenants who may be evaluated under the enhanced
screening process.

However, in light of the implementation of those PPACA
provisions relating to Medicare payment to providers and suppliers
participating in ACOs under the Medicare Shared Savings Program, on November 2,
2011, CMS and OIG jointly published the final rule establishing waivers of
certain fraud and abuse laws to ACOs.  These waivers include automatic AKS,
Stark, and CMP waivers that may be applied in certain situations and that will
apply uniformly to each ACO, ACO participant, and ACO provider/supplier. Notably,
the final rule states that CMS and OIG intend to closely monitor ACOs through
June 2013 to ensure that these waivers are not causing “undesirable effects”
and need to be narrowed to prevent fraud and abuse.

Additionally, provisions of Title VI of PPACA are designed to
increase transparency and program integrity by skilled nursing facilities,
other nursing facilities and similar providers. Specifically, skilled nursing
facilities and other providers and suppliers will be required to institute compliance
and ethics programs. Additionally, PPACA makes it easier for consumers to file
complaints against nursing homes by mandating that states establish complaint
websites. The provisions calling for enhanced transparency will increase the
administrative burden and costs on these providers.

Impact to the Health Care Plans Offered to Our Employees

.
The Health Reform Laws affect employers that provide health plans to their
employees. The new laws change the tax treatment of the Medicare Part D retiree
drug subsidy and extend dependent coverage for dependents up to age 26, among
other changes. We are evaluating our health care plans in light of these
changes. These changes may affect our operators and tenants as well.

Medicare Program Reimbursement Changes

In recent months, CMS released a number of proposed and final
rulemakings that may potentially increase or decrease government reimbursement
to our operators and tenants. To the extent that any of these rulemakings
decrease government reimbursement to our operators and tenants, our revenue and
operations may be indirectly, adversely affected.

On August 1, 2011, CMS issued a final rule updating the
long-term acute care hospital prospective payment system for fiscal year 2012.
Among other things, the final rule increased payment rates for acute care
hospitals by 1% and long-term care hospitals by 1.8%. In the rule, CMS included
a negative 2%, rather than the proposed negative 3.15%, documentation and
coding adjustment for long-term care hospitals. CMS also released a final
rulemaking for the prospective payment system and consolidated billing for
skilled nursing facilities for fiscal year 2012 on August 8, 2011, which
included the 11.1%, or $3.87 billion, decrease in RUG payments made to skilled
nursing facilities previously discussed.   CMS announced that the reasons for
this rate reduction were to correct for the unintended spike in payment levels,
particularly those associated with higher paying RUGs, and to align
reimbursement with cost. As part of these changes, effective October, 1, 2011,
all rate categories will be updated for the full market basket; increase of
2.7%, less a 1% productivity adjustment required by Section 3401(b) of the
PPACA.

CMS annually adjusts the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule
payment rates based on an update formula that includes application of the
Sustainable Growth Rate (“SGR”). On November 1, 2011, CMS published the
calendar year 2012 Physician Fee Schedule final rule with comment period. Most
notably, the final rule calls for a negative 27.4% update for 2012 under the
statutory SGR formula.

In February 2012,
Congress passed the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, which
blocks the cut through the end of 2012

.

Also discussed in the final rule are at least two initiatives
that could negatively impact the reimbursement levels received by our operators
and tenants. CMS is expanding its multiple procedure payment reduction policy
to the professional interpretation of advance imaging services to recognize the
overlapping activities that go into valuing these services.  In addition, the
rule finalizes quality and cost measures that will be used in establishing a
new value-based modifier that would adjust physician payments based on whether


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

they are providing higher quality and more efficient
care.  The PPACA requires CMS to begin making payment adjustments to certain
physicians and physician groups on January 1, 2015, and to apply the modifier
to all physicians by January 1, 2017.  The rule finalizes calendar year 2013 as
the initial performance year for purposes of adjusting payments in calendar
year 2015.

Additionally, on November 1, 2011, CMS published a final rule
with comment period for outpatient care hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers.
CMS estimates that the cumulative effect of all changes to payment rates for
calendar year 2012 will have a positive effect, resulting in a 1.9% estimated
increase in Medicare payments to providers paid under the HOPPS. As required by
PPACA, the rule also provides for a payment adjustment for designated cancer
hospitals, resulting in an expected increase in payments to cancer hospitals by
11.3%, and increases payment rates to ambulatory surgical centers by 1.6%.

Finally, on November 21, 2011, the Joint Select Committee on
Deficit Reduction, which was created by the Budget Control Act of 2011,
concluded its work, and issued a statement that it was not able to make a
bipartisan agreement, thus triggering the sequestration process.  The
sequestration process will result in spending reductions starting in 2013,
including Medicare cuts.  Such cuts could affect government reimbursement to
our operators and tenants.

Economic Outlook

Economic
fundamentals leading into 2012 have set a generally positive pace with U.S. Gross
Domestic Product growth projected to pick up through the coming year. However,
there are several important caveats to note as the world economy continues to
face headwinds and risks weigh to the downside. Positive outlooks are conditional
on fiscal policy in payroll taxes and unemployment insurance benefits and upon
the easing of the European debt situation. A repeat of volatility experienced
in 2011 is likely in 2012, as perceptions about the strength of the U.S.
economy and the Euro zone will vary over time as events unfold.   However, this
volatility has led to increased interest in the historically stable returns
provided by healthcare real estate.

As
a consequence of this interest, significant debt and equity investment capital
was available to our sector in 2011 resulting in a record year of acquisition
activity.  We participated in this growth and continue to actively invest and
pursue investment opportunities that meet our strategic underwriting criteria. 
Our strategy has resulted in robust portfolio growth and strong returns for our
shareholders. With further industry consolidation anticipated in 2012, we
expect to continue to our success.  We believe the opportunities in which we
invest will continue to generate consistent, reliable and growing cash flows
for our shareholders, regardless of economic volatility.

Business Strategy

Our
primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder
value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create
opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of
annual increases in rental and interest income and portfolio growth. To meet
these objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and
health care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property
type, customer and geographic location.

Substantially
all of our revenues and sources of cash flows from operations are derived from
operating lease rentals, resident fees and services, and interest earned on
outstanding loans receivable. These items represent our primary source of
liquidity to fund distributions and are dependent upon our obligors’ continued
ability to make contractual rent and interest payments to us. To the extent that
our obligors experience operating difficulties and are unable to generate
sufficient cash to make payments to us, there could be a material adverse
impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial
condition. To mitigate this risk, we monitor our investments through a variety
of methods determined by the type of property and operator/tenant. Our asset
management process includes review of monthly financial statements for each
property, periodic review of obligor credit, periodic property inspections and
review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters
of credit and other collateral. In monitoring our portfolio, our personnel use
a proprietary database to collect and analyze property-specific data.
Additionally, we conduct extensive research to ascertain industry trends and
risks. Through these asset management and research efforts, we are typically
able to intervene at an early stage to address payment risk, and in so doing,
support both the collectability of revenue and the value of our investment.

In
addition to our asset management and research efforts, we also structure our
investments to help mitigate payment risk. Operating leases and loans are
normally credit enhanced by guaranties and/or letters of credit. In addition,
operating leases are typically structured as master leases and loans are
generally cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other loans, operating
leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates.

For
the year ended December 31, 2011, rental income, resident fees and services and
interest income represented 65%, 32%, and 3% respectively, of total gross
revenues (including revenues from discontinued operations). Substantially all
of our operating leases are designed with either fixed or contingent escalating
rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally
recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a
collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

with
contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual
cash rental payments due for the period. Our yield on loans receivable depends
upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, the average principal
amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate
adjustments.

Depending
upon the availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is
sufficient to fund operations, meet debt service obligations (both principal
and interest), make dividend distributions and complete construction projects
in process.  We also anticipate evaluating opportunities to finance future
investments.  New investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings
under our unsecured line of credit arrangement, internally generated cash and
the proceeds from sales of real property. Our investments generate cash from
rent and interest receipts and principal payments on loans receivable.
Permanent capital for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under the
unsecured line of credit arrangement, has historically been provided through a
combination of public and private offerings of debt and equity securities and
the incurrence or assumption of secured debt.

Our
primary sources of cash include rent and interest receipts, resident fees and
services, borrowings under the unsecured line of credit arrangement, public and
private offerings of debt and equity securities, proceeds from the sales of
real property and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of
cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal
and interest), real property investments (including capital expenditures and
construction advances), loan advances, property operating expenses and general
and administrative expenses.

Depending
upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in
the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate
returns to our stockholders. It is also possible that loan repayments or sales
of real property may occur in the future. To the extent that loan repayments
and real property sales exceed new investments, our revenues and cash flows
from operations could be adversely affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds
from any loan repayments and real property sales in new investments. To the
extent that new investment requirements exceed our available cash on-hand, we
expect to borrow under our unsecured line of credit arrangement. At December
31, 2011, we had $163,482,000 of cash and cash equivalents, $69,620,000 of
restricted cash and $1,395,000,000 of available borrowing capacity under our primary
unsecured line of credit arrangement.

Key
Transactions in 2011

We completed
the following key transactions during the year ended December 31, 2011:

·

our Board of
Directors increased the annual cash dividend to $2.96 per common share ($0.74
per share quarterly), as compared to $2.835 per common share for 2011,
beginning in February 2012.  The dividend declared for the quarter ended December
31, 2011 represents the 163

rd

consecutive quarterly dividend
payment;

·

we completed
$5,986,262,000 of gross investments and had $351,701,000 of investment payoffs;

·

we completed
a public offering of 28,750,000 shares of common stock with net proceeds of
$1,358,543,000 in March;

·

we completed
a public offering of 14,375,000 shares of 6.5% convertible preferred stock with
net proceeds of $696,437,000 in March;

·

we issued
$1,400,000,000 of senior unsecured notes due 2016 to 2041 bearing interest
rates of 3.625% to 6.5% with net proceeds of $1,381,086,000 in March;

·

we extended
our unsecured line of credit arrangement to July 2015 and expanded it to
$2,000,000,000 in July 2011;

·

we completed
a public offering of 12,650,000 shares of common stock with net proceeds of $606,595,000
in November; and

·

we announced
plans to declassify the Board of Directors.

Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties

We
utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the various aspects of
our business. These indicators are discussed below and relate to operating
performance, concentration risk and credit strength. Management uses these key
performance indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our
historical operating results, in making operating decisions and for budget
planning purposes.

Operating
Performance

. We believe that net income attributable to common stockholders
(“NICS”) is the most appropriate earnings measure. Other useful supplemental
measures of our operating performance include funds from operations (“FFO”) and
net operating income (“NOI”); however, these supplemental measures are not
defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”). Please
refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further
discussion and reconciliations of FFO and NOI. These earnings measures and
their relative per share amounts are widely used by investors and analysts in
the valuation, comparison and investment recommendations of companies. The
following table reflects the recent historical trends of our operating
performance measures for the periods presented (in thousands, except per share
data):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year
  Ended December 31,




Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

171,190

$

106,882

$

157,108

Funds from operations

316,977

280,022

524,902

Net operating income

(1)

547,678

640,346

1,087,205

Per share data (fully diluted):

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

1.49

$

0.83

$

0.90

Funds from operations

2.77

2.18

3.01

(1) Includes our share of net operating income from
  unconsolidated entities.

Credit Strength.

We measure our credit strength both in
terms of leverage ratios and coverage ratios. Our leverage ratios include debt
to book capitalization and debt to market capitalization. The leverage ratios
indicate how much of our balance sheet capitalization is related to long-term
debt. The coverage ratios indicate our ability to service interest and fixed
charges (interest, secured debt principal amortization and preferred
dividends). We expect to maintain capitalization ratios and coverage ratios
sufficient to maintain compliance with our debt covenants. The coverage ratios
are based on adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”) which is discussed in further detail, and
reconciled to net income, below in “Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” Leverage
ratios and coverage ratios are widely used by investors, analysts and rating
agencies in the valuation, comparison, investment recommendations and rating of
companies. The following table reflects the recent historical trends for our
credit strength measures for the periods presented:

Year
  Ended December 31,




Debt to book capitalization ratio

39%

49%

50%

Debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio

35%

45%

46%

Debt to market capitalization ratio

30%

38%

38%

Adjusted interest coverage ratio

3.78x

3.39x

3.02x

Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio

3.09x

2.76x

2.37x

Concentration Risk

. We
evaluate our concentration risk in terms of asset mix, investment mix, customer
mix and geographic mix. Concentration risk is a valuable measure in understanding
what portion of our investments could be at risk if certain sectors were to
experience downturns. Asset mix measures the portion of our investments that
are real property. In order to qualify as an equity REIT, at least 75% of our
real estate investments must be real property whereby each property, which
includes the land, buildings, improvements, intangibles and related rights, is
owned by us and leased to a tenant pursuant to a long-term operating lease.
Investment mix measures the portion of our investments that relate to our
various property types. Customer mix measures the portion of our investments
that relate to our top five customers. Geographic mix measures the portion of
our investments that relate to our top five states. The following table reflects
our recent historical trends of concentration risk by investment balance for
the periods presented:


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

December
  31,




Asset mix:

Real property

93%

91%

95%

Real estate loans receivable

7%

5%

2%

Investments in unconsolidated entities

0%

4%

3%

Investment mix:

(1)

Seniors housing triple-net

42%

37%

28%

Skilled nursing/post-acute

25%

14%

25%

Seniors housing operating

0%

12%

20%

Hospitals

10%

9%

6%

Medical office buildings

23%

24%

19%

Life science buildings

0%

4%

2%

Customer mix:

(1)

Genesis HealthCare, LLC

17%

Merrill Gardens, LLC

8%

8%

Benchmark Senior Living, LLC

6%

Brandywine Senior Living, LLC

7%

5%

Senior Living Communities, LLC

7%

7%

4%

Senior Star Living

5%

Brookdale Senior Living, Inc.

5%

4%

Signature Health Care LLC

5%

Emeritus Corporation

4%

Life Care Centers of America, Inc,

4%

Remaining customers

75%

69%

60%

Geographic mix:

(1)

New Jersey

10%

California

9%

10%

10%

Massachusetts

7%

7%

8%

Florida

12%

10%

7%

Texas

11%

8%

7%

Washington

6%

Ohio

6%

Remaining states

55%

59%

58%

(1) Includes our share of investments in unconsolidated
  entities.

We evaluate our key performance
indicators in conjunction with current expectations to determine if historical
trends are indicative of future results. Our expected results may not be
achieved and actual results may differ materially from our expectations.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results are
described in more detail in “Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors” and
other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management regularly
monitors economic and other factors to develop strategic and tactical plans
designed to improve performance and maximize our competitive position. Our
ability to achieve our financial objectives is dependent upon our ability to
effectively execute these plans and to appropriately respond to emerging
economic and company-specific trends. Please refer to “Business,” “Risk
Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” for further discussion of these risk factors.

Portfolio Update

Net
operating income

. The primary performance measure for our properties is net
operating income (“NOI”) as discussed below in “Non-GAAP Financial Measures.”
The following table summarizes our net operating income for the periods
indicated (in thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year
  Ended December 31,




Net operating income:

Seniors housing triple-net

$

399,363

$

422,466

$

663,018

Seniors housing operating

-

18,385

141,943

Medical facilities

(1)

147,145

196,621

281,554

Non-segment/corporate

1,170

2,874


Net operating income

$

547,678

$

640,346

$

1,087,205

(1) Includes our share of net operating income from
  unconsolidated entities.

Payment coverage

. Payment
coverage of our triple-net customers continues to remain strong. Our overall
payment coverage is at 1.91 times. The table below reflects our recent
historical trends of portfolio coverage. Coverage data reflects the
12 months ended for the periods presented. Coverage represents the ratio
of our customers’ earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization,
rent and management fees to contractual rent or interest due us.

September
  30, 2009

September
  30, 2010

September
  30, 2011

CBMF

CAMF

CBMF

CAMF

CBMF

CAMF

Seniors housing triple-net

1.51x

1.30x

1.54x

1.32x

1.38x

1.19x

Skilled nursing/post-acute

2.29x

1.69x

2.42x

1.79x

2.22x

1.71x

Hospitals

2.47x

2.14x

2.66x

2.33x

2.47x

2.13x

Weighted averages

2.01x

1.59x

2.12x

1.68x

1.91x

1.54x

Corporate Governance

Maintaining
investor confidence and trust has become increasingly important in today’s
business environment. Our Board of Directors and management are strongly
committed to policies and procedures that reflect the highest level of ethical
business practices. Our corporate governance guidelines provide the framework
for our business operations and emphasize our commitment to increase
stockholder value while meeting all applicable legal requirements. The Board of
Directors adopted and annually reviews its Corporate Governance Guidelines. These
guidelines meet the listing standards adopted by the New York Stock Exchange
and are available on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Sources
and Uses of Cash

Our
primary sources of cash include rent and interest receipts, resident fees and
services, borrowings under the unsecured line of credit arrangement, public and
private offerings of debt and equity securities, proceeds from the sales of
real property and principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of
cash include dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal
and interest), real property investments (including capital expenditures and construction
advances), loan advances, property operating expenses and general and
administrative expenses. These sources and uses of cash are reflected in our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and are discussed in further detail
below.

The
following is a summary of our sources and uses of cash flows (dollars in
thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31, 2009

December
  31, 2010

$

%

December
  31, 2011

$

%

$

%

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

$

23,370

$

35,476

$

12,106

52%

$

131,570

$

96,094

271%

$

108,200

463%

Cash provided from operating activities

381,259

364,741

(16,518)

-4%

588,224

223,483

61%

206,965

54%

Cash used in investing activities

(270,060)

(2,312,039)

(2,041,979)

756%

(4,520,129)

(2,208,090)

96%

(4,250,069)

1574%

Cash provided from (used in) financing activities

(99,093)

2,043,392

2,142,485

n/a

3,963,817

1,920,425

94%

4,062,910

n/a

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

35,476

$

131,570

$

96,094

271%

$

163,482

$

31,912

24%

$

128,006

361%

Operating Activities

. The
change in net cash provided from operating activities is primarily attributable
to an increase in net income, excluding gains/losses on sales of properties,
depreciation and amortization, transaction costs and debt extinguishment


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

charges. These items are discussed below in “Results of
Operations.”  The following is a summary of our straight-line rent and
above/below market lease amortization (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31, 2009

December
  31, 2010

$

%

December
  31, 2011

$

%

$

%

Gross straight-line rental income

$

19,415

$

14,717

$

(4,698)

-24%

$

41,068

$

26,351

179%

$

21,653

112%

Cash receipts due to real property sales

(4,422)

(1,341)

3,081

-70%

(815)


-39%

3,607

-82%

Prepaid rent receipts

(26,252)

(7,196)

19,056

-73%

(8,675)

(1,479)

21%

17,577

-67%

Amortization related to above (below) market leases, net

1,713

2,856

1,143

67%

2,507

(349)

-12%


46%

$

(9,546)

$

9,036

$

18,582

n/a

$

34,085

$

25,049

277%

$

43,631

n/a

Gross straight-line rental income represents the non-cash
difference between contractual cash rent due and the average rent recognized
pursuant to U.S. GAAP for leases with fixed rental escalators, net of collectability
reserves.  This amount is positive in the first half of a lease term (but
declining every year due to annual increases in cash rent due) and is negative
in the second half of a lease term.  The fluctuation in cash receipts due to
real property sales is attributable to less significant straight-line rent
receivable balances on properties sold during the current year. The fluctuation
in prepaid rent receipts is primarily due to changes in prepaid rent received
at certain construction projects.

Investing Activities

.  The changes in net cash used in investing activities are
primarily attributable to net changes in real property and real estate loans
receivable.  The following is a summary of our investment and disposition
activities (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2009

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2011

Properties

Amount

Properties

Amount

Properties

Amount

Real property acquisitions:

Seniors housing triple-net


$

11,650


$

1,028,529


$

3,320,664

Seniors housing operating

-

-


816,000


1,747,485

Medical facilities


56,023


626,414


610,843

Land parcels

-

-


4,300


19,084

Total acquisitions


67,673


2,475,243


5,698,076

Less: Assumed debt

-

(559,508)

(961,928)

Assumed other items, net

-

(208,314)

(210,411)

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

67,673

1,707,421

4,525,737

Construction in progress additions

492,897

306,832

301,604

Capital improvements to existing properties

38,389

59,923

77,781

Total cash invested in real property

598,959

2,074,176

4,905,122

Real property dispositions:

Seniors housing triple-net


101,155


170,290


150,755

Medical facilities


85,558


14,092


35,295

Total dispositions


186,713


184,382


186,050

Less: Gains (losses) on sales of real property

43,394

36,115

61,160

Seller financing on sales of real property

(6,100)

(1,470)

-

Proceeds from real property sales

224,007

219,027

247,210

Net cash investments in real property

(33)

$

374,952


$

1,855,149


$

4,657,912


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Capitalization
Rates

Capitalization rates for acquisitions represent
annualized contractual or projected income to be received in cash divided by
investment amounts.  Capitalization rates for dispositions represent annualized
contractual income that was being received in cash at date of disposition
divided by disposition cash proceeds.  For the year ended December 31, 2011,
weighted-average capitalization rates for acquisitions and dispositions were as
follows:

Acquisitions

Dispositions

Seniors housing triple-net

8.0%

6.8%

Seniors housing operating

6.8%

n/a

Medical facilities

7.4%

7.3%

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2009

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2011

Seniors

Seniors

Seniors

Housing

Medical

Housing

Medical

Housing

Medical

Triple-net

Facilities

Totals

Triple-net

Facilities

Totals

Triple-net

Facilities

Totals

Advances on real estate loans receivable:

Investments in new loans

$

20,036

$

-

$

20,036

$

9,742

$

41,644

$

51,386

$

18,541

$

-

$

18,541

Draws on existing loans

52,910

1,471

54,381

46,113

1,236

47,349

29,752

3,184

32,936

Sub-total

72,946

1,471

74,417

55,855

42,880

98,735

48,293

3,184

51,477

Less: Seller financing on property sales

-

-

-

-

(1,470)

(1,470)

-

-

-

Net cash advances on real estate loans

72,946

1,471

74,417

55,855

41,410

97,265

48,293

3,184

51,477

Receipts on real estate loans receivable:

Loan payoffs

61,659

32,197

93,856

5,619

6,233

11,852

162,705

2,943

165,648

Principal payments on loans

15,890

2,033

17,923

24,203

7,440

31,643

17,856

5,307

23,163

Total receipts on real estate loans

77,549

34,230

111,779

29,822

13,673

43,495

180,561

8,250

188,811

Net advances (receipts) on real estate loans

$

(4,603)

$

(32,759)

$

(37,362)

$

26,033

$

27,737

$

53,770

$

(132,268)

$

(5,066)

$

(137,334)

The
contributions to unconsolidated entities for the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily
represent $174,692,000 and $21,321,000 of cash invested by us in the joint
ventures with Forest City Enterprises and a national medical office building
company, respectively.  The distributions by unconsolidated entities for the
year ended December 31, 2011 primarily represent cash received for return of
capital from those same joint ventures.  Please see Note 7 to our consolidated financial
statements for additional information.  Changes in restricted cash represent
net cash fundings to and disbursements from earnest money deposits and secured
debt escrow accounts.

Financing Activities

. The changes in net cash provided from or
used in financing activities are primarily attributable to changes related to
our long-term debt arrangements, proceeds from the issuance of common and
preferred stock and dividend payments.

The changes in our senior unsecured
notes are due to (i) the repayment of $3,000 of convertible senior unsecured
notes in December 2011; (ii) the issuance of $400,000,000 of 3.625% senior
unsecured notes due 2016, $600,000,000 of 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2022
and $400,000,000 of 6.50% senior unsecured notes due 2041 in March 2011; (iii)
the issuance of $494,403,000 of convertible senior unsecured notes in March and
June 2010; (iv) the repurchase of $441,326,000 of convertible senior unsecured
notes in March and June 2010; (v) the issuance of $450,000,000 of senior
unsecured notes in April and June 2010; (vi) the issuance of $450,000,000 of
senior unsecured notes in September 2010; (vii) the issuance of $450,000,000 of
senior unsecured notes in November 2010; and (viii) the extinguishment of $183,147,000
of various senior unsecured notes in March and September 2009.  We recognized
losses of $25,072,000 and $19,269,000 during the years ended December 31, 2010
and 2009, respectively, in connection with the aforementioned extinguishments.

During the year ended December 31,
2011, we assumed 55 secured loans totaling $940,855,000 with an average rate of
4.85% secured by 55 properties.  Also during the year ended December 31, 2011,
we issued 9 secured loans totaling $114,903,000 with a rate of 5.78%.  During
the year ended December 31, 2011, we extinguished $55,317,000 of secured debt with
an average rate of 5.95%


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

and recognized a gain of $979,000. 
During the year ended December 31, 2010, we extinguished 35 secured debt
loans totaling $194,493,000 with a weighted-average interest rate of 6.07% and
recognized extinguishment losses of $9,099,000. Also during the year ended December 31,
2010, we issued $81,977,000 of secured debt loans at an average interest rate
of 5.10%.  During the year ended December 31, 2009, we extinguished 20
secured debt loans totaling $81,715,000 with a weighted-average interest rate
of 7.21% and recognized extinguishment losses of $5,838,000.

We
may repurchase, redeem or refinance convertible and non-convertible senior
unsecured notes from time to time, taking advantage of favorable market
conditions when available. We may purchase senior notes for cash through open
market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, a tender offer or, in some
cases, through the early redemption of such securities pursuant to their
terms.   The non-convertible senior unsecured notes are redeemable at our
option, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption
price equal to the sum of (1) the principal amount of the notes (or
portion of such notes) being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon
up to the redemption date and (2) any “make-whole” amount due under the
terms of the notes in connection with early redemptions.   We cannot redeem the
3.00% convertible senior unsecured notes due 2029 prior to December 1,
2014 or the 4.75% convertible senior unsecured notes due 2027 prior to July 15,
2012 unless such redemption is necessary to preserve our status as a REIT.  
However, on or after December 1, 2014 or July 15, 2012 (as applicable), we
may from time to time at our option redeem those notes, in whole or in part,
for cash, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the
notes we redeem, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the
redemption date.  Redemptions and repurchases of debt, if any, will depend on
prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual
restrictions and other factors.

In
March 2011, we completed a public offering of 14,375,000 shares of 6.5%
convertible preferred stock for net proceeds of $696,437,000.  The following is
a summary of our common stock issuances for the years indicated (dollars in
thousands, except average price):

Shares
  Issued

Average
  Price

Gross
  Proceeds

Net
  Proceeds

February 2009 public issuance

5,816,870

$

36.85

$

214,352

$

210,880

September 2009 public issuance

9,200,000

40.40

371,680

356,554

2009 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

1,499,497

37.22

55,818

55,818

2009 Equity shelf program issuances

1,952,600

40.69

79,447

77,605

2009 Option exercises

96,166

38.23

3,676

3,676

2009 Totals

18,565,133

$

724,973

$

704,533

September 2010 public issuance

9,200,000

$

45.75

$

420,900

$

403,921

December 2010 public issuance

11,500,000

43.75

503,125

482,448

2010 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

1,957,364

43.95

86,034

86,034

2010 Equity shelf program issuances

431,082

44.94

19,371

19,013

2010 Option exercises

129,054

31.17

4,022

4,022

2010 Totals

23,217,500

$

1,033,452

$

995,438

March 2011 public issuance

28,750,000

$

49.25

$

1,415,938

$

1,358,543

November 2011 public issuance

12,650,000

50.00

632,500

606,595

2011 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

2,534,707

48.44

122,794

121,846

2011 Equity shelf program issuances

848,620

50.53

42,888

41,982

2011 Option exercises

232,081

37.17

8,628

8,628

2011 Totals

45,015,408

$

2,222,748

$

2,137,594

In order to qualify as a REIT for
federal income tax purposes, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable
income (including 100% of capital gains) to our stockholders. The increase in
dividends is primarily attributable to an increase in our common shares
outstanding. The following is a summary of our dividend payments (in thousands,
except per share amounts):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2009

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2011

Per
  Share

Amount

Per
  Share

Amount

Per
  Share

Amount

Common Stock

$

2.72000

$

311,760

$

2.74000

$

348,578

$

2.83500

$

483,746

Series D Preferred Stock

1.96875

7,875

1.96875

7,875

1.96875

7,875

Series E Preferred Stock

1.50000


1.12500


-

-

Series F Preferred Stock

1.90625

13,344

1.90625

13,344

1.90625

13,344

Series G Preferred Stock

1.87500


1.40640


-

-

Series H Preferred Stock

-

-

-

-

2.85840

1,000

Series I Preferred Stock

-

-

-

-

1.33159

38,283

Totals

$

333,839

$

370,223

$

544,248

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

During the year ended December 31,
2010, we entered into a joint venture investment with Forest City Enterprises
(NYSE:FCE.A and FCE.B).  The portfolio is 100% leased and includes affiliates
of investment grade pharmaceutical and research tenants such as Novartis,
Genzyme, Millennium (a subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceuticals), and Brigham and
Women's Hospital. Forest City Enterprises self-developed the portfolio and will
continue to manage it on behalf of the joint venture. The life science campus
is part of a mixed-use project that includes a 210-room hotel, 674 residential
units, a grocery store, restaurants and retail.  In connection with this
transaction, we invested $174,692,000 of cash which is recorded as an investment
in unconsolidated entities on the balance sheet.  Our share of the non-recourse
secured debt assumed by the joint venture was approximately $156,729,000 with
weighted-average interest rates of 7.1%.

In addition, at December 31, 2011, we had
other investments in unconsolidated entities with our ownership ranging from
10% to 50%. Please see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.

We
are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from
adverse changes in interest rates. We may or may not elect to use financial
derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are
principally based on the general trend in interest rates at the applicable
dates, our perception of the future volatility of interest rates and our
relative levels of variable rate debt and variable rate investments. Please see
Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.

At
December 31, 2011, we had five outstanding letter of credit obligations totaling
$5,515,000 and expiring between 2012 and 2014. Please see Note 12 to our
consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Contractual Obligations

The
following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2011 (in thousands):

Payments
  Due by Period

Contractual Obligations

Total


2013-2014

2015-2016

Thereafter

Unsecured line of credit arrangements

$

610,000

$

5,000

$

-

$

605,000

$

-

Senior unsecured notes

(1)

4,464,927

76,853

300,000

950,000

3,138,074

Secured debt

(1)

2,298,553

162,116

550,527

429,210

1,156,700

Contractual interest obligations

3,202,072

355,462

642,895

528,569

1,675,146

Capital lease obligations

90,482

8,059

73,977

8,447

-

Operating lease obligations

356,464

6,166

12,944

12,018

325,336

Purchase obligations

340,369

195,384

110,290

34,695

-

Other long-term liabilities

5,935

-


1,900

3,560

Total contractual obligations

$

11,368,802

$

809,040

$

1,691,107

$

2,569,839

$

6,298,816

(1) Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not reflect
  unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected
  on the balance sheet.

At
December 31, 2011, we had a $2,000,000,000 unsecured line of credit arrangement
with a consortium of 31 banks with an option to upsize the facility by up to an
additional $500,000,000 through an accordion feature, allowing for an aggregate
commitment of up to $2,500,000,000.  The revolving credit facility is scheduled
to expire July 27, 2015. Borrowings under the agreement are subject to interest
payable in periods no longer than three months at either the agent bank’s prime
rate of interest or the applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate, at our
option (1.65% at December 31, 2011). The applicable margin is based on certain
of our debt ratings and was 1.35% at December 31, 2011. In addition, we pay a
facility fee annually to each bank based on the bank’s commitment amount. The
facility fee depends on certain of our debt ratings and was 0.25% at December
31, 2011.  Principal is due


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

upon expiration of the
agreement.  At December 31, 2011, we had $ 605,000,000 outstanding under the
unsecured line of credit arrangement and $5,000,000 outstanding under an
unsecured revolving demand note.  Contractual interest obligations of
$35,690,000 are estimated based on the assumption that the balance of
$610,000,000 at December 31, 2011 is constant until maturity at interest rates
in effect at December 31, 2011.

We
have $4,464,927,000 of senior unsecured notes principal outstanding with fixed
annual interest rates ranging from 3.00% to 8.00%, payable semi-annually. Total
contractual interest obligations on senior unsecured notes totaled $2,397,250,533
at December 31, 2011. A total of $788,074,000 of our senior unsecured notes are
convertible notes that also contain put features.  Please see Note 10 to our
consolidated financial statements for additional information.

We have consolidated
secured debt with total outstanding principal of $2,108,384,000, collateralized
by owned properties, with annual interest rates ranging from 1.22% to 10.00%,
payable monthly. The carrying values of the properties securing the debt
totaled $4,048,469,000 at December 31, 2011. Total contractual interest
obligations on consolidated secured debt totaled $729,000,860 at December 31,
2011. Our share of non-recourse debt associated with unconsolidated entities (as
reflected in the contractual obligations table above) is $190,169,000 at December
31, 2011.  Our share of contractual interest obligations on our unconsolidated entities’
secured debt is $40,131,000 at December 31, 2011.

At
December 31, 2011, we had operating lease obligations of $356,464,000 relating
primarily to ground leases at certain of our properties and office space
leases.

Purchase
obligations are comprised of unfunded construction commitments and contingent
purchase obligations. At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding construction
financings of $189,502,000 for leased properties and were committed to
providing additional financing of approximately $282,899,000 to complete
construction. At December 31, 2011, we had contingent purchase obligations
totaling $57,470,000. These contingent purchase obligations relate to unfunded capital
improvement obligations. Upon funding, amounts due from the tenant are
increased to reflect the additional investment in the property.

Other
long-term liabilities relate to our Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
(“SERP”) and certain non-compete agreements. We have a SERP, a non-qualified
defined benefit pension plan, which provides certain executive officers with
supplemental deferred retirement benefits. The SERP provides an opportunity for
participants to receive retirement benefits that cannot be paid under our
tax-qualified plans because of the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Benefits are based on compensation
and length of service and the SERP is unfunded.  Benefit payments are expected
to total $2,375,000 during the next five fiscal years and $3,560,000 thereafter.
We use a December 31 measurement date for the SERP. The accrued liability
on our balance sheet for the SERP was $5,623,000 and $4,066,000 at December 31,
2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.

Capital Structure

As
of December 31, 2011, we had total equity of $7,278,647,000 and a total debt
balance of $7,156,756,000, which represents a debt to total book capitalization
ratio of 50%. Our ratio of debt to market capitalization was 38% at December
31, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2011, our adjusted interest coverage
ratio was 3.02x and our adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio was 2.37x. Also,
at December 31, 2011, we had $163,482,000 of cash and cash equivalents, $69,620,000
of restricted cash and $1,395,000,000 of available borrowing capacity under our
primary unsecured line of credit arrangement.

Our
debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default.
Certain agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum
net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness,
create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011, we
were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements. Please
refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further
discussion. None of our debt agreements contain provisions for acceleration
which could be triggered by our debt ratings. However, under our unsecured line
of credit arrangement, the ratings on our senior unsecured notes are used to
determine the fees and interest charged.

We plan to
manage the company to maintain compliance with our debt covenants and with a
capital structure consistent with our current profile. Any downgrades in terms
of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a
material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in
turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations,
liquidity and/or financial condition.

On
May 7, 2009, we filed an open-ended automatic or “universal” shelf
registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering an
indeterminate amount of future offerings of debt securities, common stock,
preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants and units. As of January 31, 2012,
we had an effective registration statement on file in connection with our enhanced
dividend reinvestment plan under which we may issue up to 10,000,000 shares of
common stock. As of January 31, 2012, 5,876,205 shares of common stock remained
available for issuance under this registration statement. We have entered into separate
Equity Distribution Agreements with each of UBS Securities LLC, RBS Securities
Inc., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc.
relating to the offer and sale from time to time of up to $630,015,000 aggregate
amount of our common stock


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

(“Equity Shelf Program”).
As of January 31, 2012, we had $457,112,000 of remaining capacity under the
Equity Shelf Program. Depending upon market conditions, we anticipate issuing
securities under our registration statements to invest in additional properties
and to repay borrowings under our unsecured line of credit arrangement.

Results of Operations

Our
primary sources of revenue include rent, resident fees and services, and
interest. Our primary expenses include interest expense, depreciation and
amortization, property operating expenses and general and administrative
expenses. These revenues and expenses are reflected in our Consolidated
Statements of Income and are discussed in further detail below. The following
is a summary of our results of operations (dollars in thousands, except per
share amounts):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31, 2009

December
  31, 2010

Amount

%

December
  31, 2011

Amount

%

Amount

%

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

171,190

$

106,882

$

(64,308)

-38%

$

157,108

$

50,226

47%

$

(14,082)

-8%

Funds from operations

316,977

280,022

(36,955)

-12%

524,902

244,880

87%

207,925

66%

Adjusted EBITDA

525,791

568,429

42,638

8%

971,525

403,096

71%

445,734

85%

Net operating income

547,678

640,346

92,668

17%

1,087,205

446,859

70%

539,527

99%

Per share data (fully diluted):

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

1.49

$

0.83

$

(0.66)

-44%

$

0.90

$

0.07

8%

$

(0.59)

-40%

Funds from operations

2.77

2.18

(0.59)

-21%

3.01

0.83

38%

0.24

9%

Adjusted interest coverage ratio

3.78x

3.39x

-0.39x

-10%

3.02x

-0.37x

-11%

-0.76x

-20%

Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio

3.09x

2.76x

-0.33x

-11%

2.37x

-0.39x

-14%

-0.72x

-23%

The components of the changes in
revenues, expenses and other items are discussed in detail below. The following
is a summary of certain items that impact the results of operations for the
year ended December 31, 2011:

•

$12,194,000 ($0.07 per
diluted share) of impairment charges;

•

$2,010,000 ($0.01 per
diluted share) of provisions for loan losses;

•

$70,224,000 ($0.40 per
diluted share) of transaction costs;

•

$1,653,000 ($0.01 per
diluted share) of held for sale hospital operating expenses;

•

$979,000 ($0.01 per
diluted share) of net gains on extinguishments of debt;

•

$3,774,000 ($0.02 per
diluted share) of additional other income related to a lease and loan termination;
and

•

$61,160,000 ($0.35 per
diluted share) of gains on the sales of real property.

The following is a summary of
certain items that impact the results of operations for the year ended December
31, 2010:

•

$3,853,000 ($0.03 per
diluted share) of special stock compensation grants recognized as general and
administrative expenses;

•

$34,171,000 ($0.27 per
diluted share) of net losses on extinguishments of debt;

•

$947,000 ($0.01 per
diluted share) of impairment charges;

•

$29,684,000 ($0.23 per
diluted share) of provisions for loan losses;

•

$46,660,000 ($0.36 per
diluted share) of transaction costs;

•

$1,753,000 ($0.01 per
diluted share) of held for sale hospital operating expenses;

•

$1,000,000 ($0.01 per
diluted share) of additional other income related to a lease termination; and

•

$36,115,000 ($0.28 per
diluted share) of gains on the sales of real property.

The following is a summary of
certain items that impact the results of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2009:

•

$3,909,000 ($0.03 per
diluted share) of non-recurring general and administrative expenses;

•

$25,107,000 ($0.22 per
diluted share) of net losses on extinguishments of debt;

•

$25,223,000 ($0.22 per
diluted share) of impairment charges;

•

$23,261,000 ($0.20 per
diluted share) of provisions for loan losses;

•

$8,059,000 ($0.07 per
diluted share) of additional other income related to a lease termination;

•

$2,400,000 ($0.02 per
diluted share) of prepayment fees; and

•

$43,394,000 ($0.38 per
diluted share) of gains on the sales of real property.

The increase in fully diluted
average common shares outstanding is primarily the result of public common
stock offerings and


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

common stock issuances pursuant to
our DRIP and equity shelf program (“ESP”). The following table represents the
changes in outstanding common stock for the period from January 1, 2009 to
December 31, 2011 (in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2009

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2011

Totals

Beginning balance

104,704

123,385

147,097

104,704

Public offerings

15,017

20,700

41,400

77,117

DRIP issuances

1,499

1,957

2,534

5,990

ESP issuances

1,953



3,233

Preferred stock conversions



-


Option exercises





Other, net





Ending balance

123,385

147,097

192,275

192,275

Average number of shares outstanding:

Basic

114,207

127,656

173,741

Diluted

114,612

128,208

174,401

We evaluate our business and make
resource allocations on our three business segments — seniors housing triple-net,
seniors housing operating and medical facilities. Please see Note 17 to our
consolidated financial statements for additional information.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Seniors Housing Triple-net

The following is a summary
of our results of operations for the seniors housing triple-net segment
(dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Rental income

$

308,650

$

347,706

$

39,056

13%

$

612,617

$

264,911

76%

$

303,967

98%

Interest income

35,945

36,176


1%

34,068

(2,108)

-6%

(1,877)

-5%

Other income

2,909

3,385


16%

6,620

3,235

96%

3,711

128%

Prepayment fees

2,400

-

(2,400)

-100%

-

-

n/a

(2,400)

-100%

349,904

387,267

37,363

11%

653,305

266,038

69%

303,401

87%

Expenses:

Interest expense

2,879

7,780

4,901

170%

13,238

5,458

70%

10,359

360%

Depreciation and amortization

82,752

98,561

15,809

19%

175,625

77,064

78%

92,873

112%

Transaction costs

-

20,613

20,613

n/a

27,993

7,380

36%

27,993

n/a

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt

2,057

7,791

5,734

279%

-

(7,791)

-100%

(2,057)

-100%

Provision for loan losses

23,261

29,684

6,423

28%

-

(29,684)

-100%

(23,261)

-100%

110,949

164,429

53,480

48%

216,856

52,427

32%

105,907

95%

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and income
  (loss) from unconsolidated entities

238,955

222,838

(16,117)

-7%

436,449

213,611

96%

197,494

83%

Income tax expense

(607)

-


-100%

(143)

(143)

n/a


-76%

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

-

-

-

n/a

(9)

(9)

n/a

(9)

n/a

Income from continuing operations

238,348

222,838

(15,510)

-7%

436,297

213,459

96%

197,949

83%

Discontinued operations:

Gain (loss) on sales of properties

32,084

36,274

4,190

13%

59,108

22,834

63%

27,024

84%

Impairment of assets

-

-

-

n/a

(1,103)

(1,103)

n/a

(1,103)

n/a

Income from discontinued operations, net

21,168

15,216

(5,952)

-28%

4,949

(10,267)

-67%

(16,219)

-77%

Discontinued operations, net

53,252

51,490

(1,762)

-3%

62,954

11,464

22%

9,702

18%

Net income

291,600

274,328

(17,272)

-6%

499,251

224,923

82%

207,651

71%

Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests

-

(18)

(18)

n/a



-1311%


n/a

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

291,600

$

274,346

$

(17,254)

-6%

$

499,033

$

224,687

82%

$

207,433

71%

The increase in rental income is primarily attributable to the acquisitions
of new properties and the conversion of newly constructed seniors housing triple-net
properties from which we receive rent. Certain of our leases contain annual
rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index
and/or changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenant’s properties. 
These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however,
rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for
the period.  If gross operating revenues at our facilities and/or the Consumer
Price Index do not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to
increase.  Sales of real property would offset revenue increases and, to the
extent that they exceed new acquisitions, could result in decreased revenues. 
Our leases could renew above or below current rent rates, resulting in an
increase or decrease in rental income.  For the three months ended December 31,
2011, we had no lease renewals but we had 12 leases with rental rate increasers
ranging from 0.25% to 0.41% in our seniors housing triple-net portfolio.

Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009 represents $15,306,000, $15,111,000 and $12,622,000,


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

respectively,
of secured debt interest expense offset by interest allocated to discontinued
operations.  The change in secured debt interest expense is due to the net
effect and timing of assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations. 
The following is a summary of our seniors housing triple-net property secured
debt principal activity (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2009

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2011

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Beginning balance

$

94,234

6.996%

$

298,492

5.998%

$

172,862

5.265%

Debt transferred

-

0.000%

(131,214)

6.100%

-

0.000%

Debt issued

265,527

5.982%

81,977

4.600%

-

0.000%

Debt assumed

-

0.000%

78,794

5.867%

90,120

4.819%

Debt extinguished

(47,502)

7.414%

(150,982)

5.924%

-

0.000%

Principal payments

(13,767)

7.640%

(4,205)

4.388%

(3,982)

5.556%

Ending balance

$

298,492

5.998%

$

172,862

5.265%

$

259,000

5.105%

Monthly averages

$

205,549

6.309%

$

242,123

5.663%

$

234,392

5.141%

Depreciation and
amortization increased primarily as a result of new property acquisitions and the
conversions of newly constructed investment properties. To the extent that we
acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, our provision for
depreciation and amortization will change accordingly.

Transaction costs for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily
represent costs incurred with the Genesis transaction (including due diligence
costs, fees for legal and valuation services, and termination of pre-existing
relationships computed based on the fair value of the assets acquired), lease termination
fees and costs incurred in connection with other new property acquisitions.

During the year ended
December 31, 2011, we sold 39 seniors housing triple-net properties for net
gains of $59,108,000 as compared to 31 properties for net gains of $36,274,000 in
2010 and 21 properties for net gains of $32,084,000 in 2009.  At December 31,
2011, we had one seniors housing triple-net facility that satisfied the
requirements for held for sale treatment.  We recognized an impairment loss of
$1,102,000 on certain facilities as the fair value less estimated costs to sell
exceeded our carrying value. The following illustrates the reclassification
impact as a result of classifying the properties sold prior to or held for sale
at December 31, 2011 as discontinued operations for the periods presented. 
Please refer to Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for further
discussion.

Year
  Ended December 31,




Rental income

$

49,459

$

35,198

$

9,713

Expenses:

Interest expense

9,743

7,331

2,068

Provision for depreciation

18,548

12,651

2,696

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

$

21,168

$

15,216

$

4,949

We recorded $23,261,000 of provision for loan losses during the year ended
December 31, 2009. This amount includes the write-off of loans totaling
$25,578,000 primarily relating to certain early stage seniors housing operators
offset by a net reduction in the allowance for loan losses of $2,457,000.  We
recorded $29,684,000 of provision for loan losses during the year ended December
31, 2010. This amount includes the write-off of loans totaling $33,591,000
primarily related to certain early stage seniors housing and CCRC development
projects.  This was offset by a net reduction of the allowance balance by $3,907,000. 
We did not record any provision for loan loss or have any loan write-offs for
seniors housing triple-net investments during the year ended December 31, 2011.
The provision for loan losses is related to our critical accounting estimate
for the allowance for loan losses and is discussed in “Critical Accounting
Policies.”

During the year ended December 31, 2011 a portion of our seniors housing
triple-net properties were formed through partnership interests. Net income
attributable to noncontrolling interests for the year ended December 31, 2011
represents our partners share of net income (loss) relating to those
properties. In connection with a seniors housing triple-net partnership, we
also acquired a minority interest in a separate unconsolidated entity. This
investment is reflected as an investment in unconsolidated entities on our
consolidated balance sheet. Accordingly, our proportionate share of net income
(loss) is reflected as income (loss) from unconsolidated entities on our
consolidated income statement.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Seniors
Housing Operating

As discussed in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements,
we completed the acquisition of three additional seniors housing operating
partnerships and added certain properties to existing partnerships during the year
ended December 31, 2011. The results of operations for these partnerships have
been included in our consolidated results of operations from the dates of
acquisition. The seniors housing operating partnerships were formed using the
structure authorized by the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act
of 2007 (“RIDEA”).  When considering new partnerships utilizing the RIDEA
structure, we look for opportunities with best-in-class operators with a strong
seasoned leadership team, high-quality real estate in attractive markets,
growth potential above the standard rent escalators in our triple-net lease
seniors housing portfolio, and alignment of economic interests with our
operating partner.  Our seniors housing operating partnerships offer us the
opportunity for external growth because we have the right to fund future
seniors housing investment opportunities sourced by our operating partners.
There were no seniors housing operating segment investments prior to September
1, 2010.  The following is a summary of our seniors housing operating results
of operations (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%

Revenues:

Resident fees and services

$

51,006

$

456,085

$

405,079

794%

Expenses:

Interest expense

7,794

46,342

38,548

495%

Property operating expenses

32,621

314,142

281,521

863%

Depreciation and amortization

15,504

138,192

122,688

791%

Transaction costs

20,936

36,328

15,392

74%

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt

-

(979)

(979)

n/a

76,855

534,025

457,170

595%

Income from continuing operations before income from
  unconsolidated entities

(25,849)

(77,940)

(52,091)

202%

Income tax expense

(229)

-


n/a

Income from unconsolidated entities

-

(1,531)

(1,531)

n/a

Net income

(26,078)

(79,471)

(53,393)

205%

Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests

(1,656)

(6,006)

(4,350)

263%

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

(24,422)

$

(73,465)

$

(49,043)

201%

The
fluctuation in revenues, expenses and other items is primarily due to the
timing of transactions.  Amounts for the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily
represent four months of activity for our original Merrill Gardens
partnership.  Amounts for the year ended December 31, 2011 represent a full
year of activity for the original Merrill Gardens partnership plus amounts
related to all subsequent RIDEA partnerships.  Please refer to Note 3 to our
consolidated financial statements for additional information.  The following is
a summary of our seniors housing operating property secured debt principal
activity (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2011

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Beginning balance

$

-

0.000%

$

487,706

5.939%

Debt transferred

131,214

6.100%

-

0.000%

Debt issued

75,179

6.386%

114,903

5.779%

Debt assumed

318,125

5.855%

780,955

4.269%

Debt extinguished

(35,017)

6.723%

(55,317)

5.949%

Principal payments

(1,795)

6.165%

(9,648)

5.474%

Ending balance

$

487,706

5.939%

$

1,318,599

4.665%

Monthly averages

$

350,259

5.957%

$

969,265

5.679%


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Medical Facilities

The following is a summary of our results of
operations for the medical facilities segment (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Rental income

$

165,965

$

210,484

$

44,519

27%

$

300,095

$

89,611

43%

$

134,130

81%

Interest income

4,940

4,679

(261)

-5%

7,002

2,323

50%

2,062

42%

Other income

1,309


(324)

-25%

3,985

3,000

305%

2,676

204%

172,214

216,148

43,934

26%

311,082

94,934

44%

138,868

81%

Expenses:

Interest expense

17,411

22,593

5,182

30%

29,931

7,338

32%

12,520

72%

Property operating expenses

42,501

46,673

4,172

10%

65,334

18,661

40%

22,833

54%

Depreciation and amortization

57,941

72,896

14,955

26%

104,589

31,693

43%

46,648

81%

Transaction costs

-

5,112

5,112

n/a

5,903


n/a

5,903

n/a

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt

3,781

1,308

(2,473)

-65%

-

(1,308)

-100%

(3,781)

-100%

Provision for loan losses

-

-

-

n/a

2,010

2,010

n/a

2,010

n/a

121,634

148,582

26,948

22%

207,767

59,185

40%

86,133

71%

Income from continuing operations before
  income taxes and income from unconsolidated entities

50,580

67,566

16,986

34%

103,315

35,749

53%

52,735

104%

Income tax expense

(233)

(77)


-67%

(361)

(284)

369%

(128)

55%

Income from unconsolidated entities

-

6,673

6,673

n/a

7,312


n/a

7,312

n/a

Income from continuing operations

50,347

74,162

23,815

47%

110,266

36,104

49%

59,919

119%

Discontinued operations:

Gain (loss) on sales of properties

11,310

(159)

(11,469)

n/a

2,052

2,211

-1391%

(9,258)

-82%

Impairment of assets

(25,223)

(947)

24,276

-96%

(11,091)

(10,144)

1071%

14,132

-56%

Income (loss) from discontinued operations,
  net

8,577

(2,412)

(10,989)

n/a

(2,009)


-17%

(10,586)

-123%

Discontinued operations, net

(5,336)

(3,518)

1,818

-34%

(11,048)

(7,530)

214%

(5,712)

107%

Net income (loss)

45,011

70,644

25,633

57%

99,218

28,574

40%

54,207

120%

Less: Net income (loss) attributable to
  noncontrolling interests

(342)

2,031

2,373

n/a


(1,137)

-56%

1,236

-361%

Net income (loss) attributable to common
  stockholders

$

45,353

$

68,613

$

23,260

51%

$

98,324

$

29,711

43%

$

52,971

117%

The increase in rental income is primarily attributable to the
acquisitions of new properties and the construction conversions of medical facilities
from which we receive rent. Certain of our leases contain annual rental
escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index.  These
escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental
income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the
period.  If the Consumer Price Index does not increase, a portion of our
revenues may not continue to increase.  Sales of real property would offset
revenue increases and, to the extent that they exceed new acquisitions, could
result in decreased revenues.  Our leases could renew above or below current
rent rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in rental income.  For the
three months ended December 31, 2011, our consolidated medical office building
portfolio signed 55,562 square feet of new leases and 103,954 square feet of
renewals.  The weighted average term of these leases was five years, with
a rate of $23.06 per square foot and tenant improvement and lease commission
costs of $10.53 per square foot.  Substantially all of these leases during
the referenced quarter contain an annual fixed or contingent escalation rent
structure ranging from the change in


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

CPI to 3%. 
For the three months ended December 31, 2011, we had no lease renewals but we
had two leases with rental rate increasers ranging from 0.25% to 0.50% in our
hospital portfolio.

Interest income decreased from the prior period primarily due to a
decline in outstanding balances for medical facility real estate loans.  Other
income is attributable to third party management fee income.

Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
represents $31,467,000, $24,926,000 and $20,584,000, respectively, of secured
debt interest expense offset by interest allocated to discontinued operations. 
The change in secured debt interest expense is primarily due to the net effect
and timing of assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations.  The
following is a summary of our medical facilities secured debt principal
activity (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2009

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2011

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Beginning balance

$

354,146

5.799%

$

314,065

5.677%

$

463,477

5.286%

Debt assumed

-

0.000%

167,737

6.637%

69,779

5.921%

Debt extinguished

(34,213)

6.933%

(8,494)

6.045%

-

0.000%

Principal payments

(5,868)

5.721%

(9,831)

6.279%

(13,190)

6.208%

Ending balance

$

314,065

5.677%

$

463,477

5.286%

$

520,066

5.981%

Monthly averages

$

341,103

5.764%

$

458,196

5.961%

$

489,923

6.179%

The increase in property operating expenses and depreciation and
amortization is primarily attributable to acquisitions and construction
conversions of new medical facilities for which we incur certain property operating
expenses offset by property operating expenses associated with discontinued
operations.

Transaction costs for the year ended December 31, 2011 represent
costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of new properties.  Income
tax expense is primarily related to third party management fee income.

We recorded $2,010,000 of provision for loan losses during the
year ended December 31, 2011.  This amount includes the write-off of a loan
totaling $3,286,000 primarily relating to a medical facility loan offset by a
net reduction in the allowance for loan loss $1,276,000, resulting in an
allowance for loan losses of $0 at December 31, 2011.

Income from unconsolidated entities for the year ended December
30, 2010 and 2011 includes our share of net income related to our joint venture
investment with Forest City Enterprises.  Income from unconsolidated entities for
the year ended December 31, 2011 also includes our share of net income related
to certain unconsolidated property investments related to our strategic joint
venture relationship with a national medical office building company.  See Note
7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.  The
following is a summary of our pro rata net income from these investments for
the year ended December 31, 2011 (in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,

One
  Year Change



$

%

Revenues

$

19,756

$

23,626

$

3,870

20%

Operating expenses

5,751

6,945

1,194

21%

Net operating income

14,005

16,681

2,676

19%

Depreciation and amortization

4,646

6,156

1,510

33%

Interest expense

4,228

5,829

1,601

38%

Loss on extinguishment of debt

-



n/a

Asset management fee




16%

Net income

$

4,383

$

3,471

$

(912)

-21%

During the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold 15
medical facilities for net gains of $11,310,000.  At December 31, 2009, we had
eight medical facilities held for sale and recorded an impairment charge of
$25,223,000 to reduce the properties to their estimated fair values less costs
to sell.  In determining the fair value of the held for sale properties, we
used a combination of third party appraisals based on market comparable
transactions, other market listings and asset quality as well as management
calculations based on projected


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

operating income and
published capitalization rates.  During the three months ended September 30,
2010, we recorded an impairment charge of $947,000 related to two of the held
for sale medical facilities to adjust the carrying values to estimated fair
values less costs to sell based on current sales price expectations.  During
the year ended December 31, 2010, we sold seven of the held for sale medical
facilities for net losses of $159,000.  At December 31, 2010, we had one
medical facility held for sale. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we
sold three medical facilities for net gains of $2,052,000.  At

December 31, 2011

, we had five medical facilities held
for sale and we recorded an impairment charge of $6,791,000 to reduce the
carrying values of certain properties to their estimated fair values less costs
to sell.  T

he following
illustrates the reclassification impact as a result of classifying medical facilities
sold prior to or held for sale at December 31, 2011 as discontinued operations
for the periods presented.  Please refer to Note 5 to our consolidated
financial statements for further discussion.

Year
  Ended December 31,




Rental income

$

15,837

$

10,022

$

6,421

Other income

8,059

-

-

Expenses:

Interest expense

3,173

2,333

1,536

Property operating expenses

6,464

7,171

4,394

Provision for depreciation

5,682

2,930

2,503

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

$

8,577

$

(2,412)

$

(2,012)

Net income attributable to
non-controlling interests primarily relates to certain properties that are
consolidated in our operating results but where we have less than a 100%
ownership interest.

Non-Segment/Corporate

The following is a summary of
our results of operations for the non-segment/corporate activities (dollars in
thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31, 2009

December
  31, 2010

$

%

December
  31, 2011

$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Other income

$

1,170

$

2,874

$

1,704

146%

$


$

(2,184)

-76%

$

(480)

-41%

Expenses:

Interest expense

76,566

113,129

36,563

48%

228,884

115,755

102%

152,318

199%

General and administrative

49,691

54,626

4,935

10%

77,201

22,575

41%

27,510

55%

Loss (gain) on extinguishments of debt

19,269

25,072

5,803

30%

-

(25,072)

-100%

(19,269)

n/a

145,526

192,827

47,301

33%

306,085

113,258

59%

160,559

110%

Loss from continuing operations before income taxes

(144,356)

(189,953)

(45,597)

32%

(305,395)

(115,442)

61%

(161,039)

112%

Income tax expense (benefit)


(58)

(730)

n/a

(884)

(826)

1424%

(1,556)

-232%

Net loss

(143,684)

(190,011)

(46,327)

32%

(306,279)

(116,268)

61%

(162,595)

113%

Preferred stock dividends

22,079

21,645

(434)

-2%

60,502

38,857

180%

38,423

174%

Net loss attributable to common stockholders

$

(165,763)

$

(211,656)

$

(45,893)

28%

$

(366,781)

$

(155,125)

73%

$

(201,018)

121%

Other income primarily represents
income from non-real estate activities such as interest earned on temporary
investments of cash reserves.

The
following is a summary of our non-segment/corporate interest expense (dollars
in thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31, 2009

December
  31, 2010

$

%

December
  31, 2011

$

%

$

%

Senior unsecured notes

$

106,347

$

122,492

$

16,145

15%

$

222,559

$

100,067

82%

$

116,212

109%

Secured debt




n/a


(41)

-6%


n/a

Unsecured lines of credit

4,629

3,974

(655)

-14%

7,917

3,943

99%

3,288

71%

Capitalized interest

(41,170)

(20,792)

20,378

-49%

(13,164)

7,628

-37%

28,006

-68%

Interest SWAP savings

(161)

(161)

-

0%

(161)

-

0%

-

0%

Loan expense

6,656

6,971


5%

11,129

4,158

60%

4,473

67%

Totals

$

76,566

$

113,129

$

36,563

48%

$

228,884

$

115,755

102%

$

152,318

199%

The change in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due to
the net effect of issuances and extinguishments.  The following is a summary of
our senior unsecured note principal activity (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2009

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2011

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Beginning balance

$

1,845,000

5.782%

$

1,661,853

5.557%

$

3,064,930

5.129%

Debt issued

-

0.000%

1,844,403

4.653%

1,400,000

5.143%

Debt extinguished

(1)

(183,147)

7.823%

(441,326)

4.750%

(3)

4.750%

Ending balance

$

1,661,853

5.557%

$

3,064,930

5.129%

$

4,464,927

5.133%

Monthly averages

$

1,778,261

5.713%

$

2,221,056

5.263%

$

4,141,853

5.133%

(1) We recognized losses of $19,269,000, $25,072,000 and $0 in
  connection with the extinguishments for the years ended December 31, 2009,
  2010 and 2011, respectively.

We capitalize certain interest costs
associated with funds used to finance the construction of properties owned
directly by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the balances outstanding
during the construction period using the rate of interest that approximates our
cost of financing. Our interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized.  Please
see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our
interest rate swap agreements and their impact on interest expense.  Loan
expense represents the amortization of deferred loan costs incurred in
connection with the issuance and amendments of debt. Loan expense is consistent
for all years presented.  During the three months ended September 30, 2009, we completed
a $10,750,000 first mortgage loan secured by a commercial real estate campus. 
The 10-year debt has a fixed interest rate of 6.37%.  The change in interest
expense on the unsecured line of credit arrangements is due primarily to the
net effect and timing of draws, paydowns and variable interest rate changes. 
The following is a summary of our unsecured line of credit arrangements
(dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Balance outstanding at year end

$

140,000

$

300,000

$

610,000

Maximum amount outstanding at any month end

$

559,000

$

560,000

$

710,000

Average amount outstanding (total of daily

principal balances divided by days in period)

$

241,463

$

268,762

$

240,104

Weighted average interest rate (actual interest

expense divided by average borrowings outstanding)

1.92%

1.48%

1.51%

General
and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues (including
revenues from discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009 were 5.37%, 7.78% and 8.33%, respectively.  The increase in general
and administrative expenses is primarily related to costs associated with our
initiatives to attract and retain appropriate personnel to achieve our business
objectives.  The decline in percent of revenue is primarily related to the
increasing revenue base as a result of our seniors housing operating
partnerships.

The
change in preferred dividends is primarily attributable to preferred stock conversions
into common stock. The following is a summary of our preferred stock activity
(dollars in thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2009

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2011

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Shares

Dividend
  Rate

Shares

Dividend
  Rate

Shares

Dividend
  Rate

Beginning balance

11,516,302

7.696%

11,474,093

7.697%

11,349,854

7.663%

Shares issued

-

0.000%

349,854

6.000%

14,375,000

6.500%

Shares redeemed

-

0.000%

(5,513)

7.500%

-

0.000%

Shares converted

(42,209)

7.478%

(468,580)

7.262%

-

0.000%

Ending balance

11,474,093

7.697%

11,349,854

7.663%

25,724,854

7.013%

Monthly averages

11,482,557

7.697%

11,321,886

7.699%

22,407,546

7.089%

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

We
believe that net income, as defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate
earnings measurement. However, we consider FFO to be a useful supplemental
measure of our operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real
estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of
real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the
provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically
risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts
have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies
that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the
National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) created FFO as
a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes
historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means
net income, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses)
from sales of real estate and impairment of depreciable assets, plus
depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated entities.

Net
operating income (“NOI”) is used to evaluate the operating performance of our
properties. We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements,
less property level operating expenses, which exclude depreciation and
amortization, general and administrative expenses, impairments and interest
expense. We believe NOI provides investors relevant and useful information
because it measures the operating performance of our properties at the property
level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI to make decisions about resource
allocations and to assess the property level performance of our properties.

EBITDA
stands for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We
believe that EBITDA, along with net income and cash flow provided from
operating activities, is an important supplemental measure because it provides
additional information to assess and evaluate the performance of our
operations. We primarily utilize EBITDA to measure our interest coverage ratio,
which represents EBITDA divided by total interest, and our fixed charge
coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges
include total interest, secured debt principal amortization and preferred
dividends.

A covenant
in our line of credit arrangement contains a financial ratio based on a
definition of EBITDA that is specific to that agreement. Failure to satisfy
this covenant could result in an event of default that could have a material
adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn
have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations,
liquidity and/or financial condition. Due to the materiality of this debt
agreement and the financial covenant, we have disclosed Adjusted EBITDA, which
represents EBITDA as defined above and adjusted for stock-based compensation
expense, provision for loan losses and gain/loss on extinguishment of debt. We
use Adjusted EBITDA to measure our adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio, which
represents Adjusted EBITDA divided by fixed charges on a trailing twelve months
basis. Fixed charges include total interest (excluding capitalized interest and
non-cash interest expenses), secured debt principal amortization and preferred
dividends. Effective July 27, 2011, our covenant requires an adjusted fixed
charge ratio of at least 1.50 times.

Other
than Adjusted EBITDA, our supplemental reporting measures and similarly
entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt
analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and
investment recommendations of companies. Management uses these financial
measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical
operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these
measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management.
Adjusted EBITDA is used solely to determine our compliance with a financial
covenant of our line of credit arrangement and is not being presented for use
by investors for any other purpose. None of our supplemental measures represent
net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in
accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures
of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental measures, as defined
by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other real
estate investment trusts or other companies.

The table below reflects the
reconciliation of FFO to net income attributable to common stockholders, the
most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. The
provisions for depreciation and amortization include provisions for
depreciation and amortization from discontinued operations. Noncontrolling
interest amounts represent the noncontrolling interests’ share of


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

transaction costs and depreciation and amortization. 
Unconsolidated entity amounts represent our share of unconsolidated entities’
depreciation and amortization.  Amounts are in thousands except for per share
data.

Year
  Ended December 31,

FFO Reconciliation:




Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

171,190

$

106,882

$

157,108

Depreciation and amortization

164,923

202,543

423,605

Impairment of assets

25,223


12,194

Loss (gain) on sales of properties

(43,394)

(36,115)

(61,160)

Noncontrolling interests

(965)

(2,749)

(18,557)

Unconsolidated entities

-

8,514

11,712

Funds from operations

$

316,977

$

280,022

$

524,902

Average common shares outstanding:

Basic

114,207

127,656

173,741

Diluted

114,612

128,208

174,401

Per share data:

Net income attributable to common stockholders

Basic

$

1.50

$

0.84

$

0.90

Diluted

1.49

0.83

0.90

Funds from operations

Basic

$

2.78

$

2.19

$

3.02

Diluted

2.77

2.18

3.01

The table below reflects the
reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable
U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. Interest expense and the
provisions for depreciation and amortization include discontinued operations.
Dollars are in thousands.

Year
  Ended December 31,

Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation:




Net income

$

192,927

$

128,884

$

212,716

Interest expense

109,772

160,960

321,998

Income tax expense (benefit)



1,388

Depreciation and amortization

164,923

202,543

423,605

Stock-based compensation expense

9,633

11,823

10,786

Provision for loan losses

23,261

29,684

2,010

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt

25,107

34,171

(979)

Adjusted EBITDA

$

525,791

$

568,429

$

971,524

Adjusted Interest Coverage Ratio:

Interest expense

$

109,772

$

160,960

$

321,998

Capitalized interest

41,170

20,792

13,164

Non-cash interest expense

(11,898)

(13,945)

(13,905)

Total interest

139,044

167,807

321,257

Adjusted EBITDA

$

525,791

$

568,429

$

971,524

Adjusted interest coverage ratio

3.78x

3.39x

3.02x

Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio:

Interest expense

$

109,772

$

160,960

$

321,998

Capitalized interest

41,170

20,792

13,164

Non-cash interest expense

(11,898)

(13,945)

(13,905)

Secured debt principal payments

9,292

16,652

27,804

Preferred dividends

22,079

21,645

60,502

Total fixed charges

170,415

206,104

409,563

Adjusted EBITDA

$

525,791

$

568,429

$

971,524

Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio

3.09x

2.76x

2.37x


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following tables reflect the
reconciliation of NOI for the periods presented. All amounts include amounts
from discontinued operations, if applicable. Our share of revenues and expenses
from unconsolidated entities are included in medical facilities. Amounts are in
thousands.

Year
  Ended December 31,

NOI Reconciliation:




Total revenues:

Seniors housing triple-net:

Rental income:

Seniors housing triple-net

$

190,684

$

220,383

$

306,810

Skilled nursing/post-acute

167,426

162,521

315,520

Sub-total

358,110

382,904

622,330

Interest income

35,944

36,176

34,068

Other income

5,308

3,386

6,620

Total seniors housing triple-net

399,362

422,466

663,018

Seniors housing operating:

Resident fees and services

-

51,006

456,085

Medical facilities:

Rental income

Hospitals

44,967

50,071

70,022

Medical office buildings

136,834

170,435

241,159

Life science buildings

-

34,002

43,429

Sub-total

181,801

254,508

354,610

Interest income

4,941

4,679

7,002

Other income

9,369


3,985

Total medical facilities revenues

196,111

260,172

365,597

Corporate other income

1,170

2,874


Total revenues

596,643

736,518

1,485,390

Property operating expenses:

Seniors housing operating

-

32,621

314,142

Medical facilities:

Hospitals

-

1,753

1,871

Medical office buildings

48,965

52,091

69,021

Life science buildings

-

9,707

13,151

Sub-total

48,965

63,551

84,043

Total property operating expenses

48,965

96,172

398,185

Net operating income:

Seniors housing triple-net

399,362

422,466

663,018

Seniors housing operating

-

18,385

141,943

Medical facilities

147,146

196,621

281,554

Non-segment/corporate

1,170

2,874


Net operating income

$

547,678

$

640,346

$

1,087,205


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Critical Accounting Policies

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions. 
Management considers accounting estimates or assumptions critical if:

·

the nature of the
estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and
judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the
susceptibility of such matters to change; and

·

the impact of the
estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is
material.

Management has discussed the development and selection of its
critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors
and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure presented below relating to
them.  Management believes the current assumptions and other considerations
used to estimate amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements are
appropriate and are not reasonably likely to change in the future.  However,
since these estimates require assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the
time the estimate was made, they bear the risk of change.  If actual experience
differs from the assumptions and other considerations used in estimating
amounts reflected in our consolidated financial statements, the resulting
changes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of
operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.  Please refer to Note 1
of our audited consolidated financial statements for further information on
significant accounting policies that impact us. There were no material changes
to these policies in 2011.

The following table presents information about our critical
accounting policies, as well as the material assumptions used to develop each
estimate:

Nature of Critical

Accounting Estimate

Assumptions/Approach

Used

Principles of Consolidation

The
  consolidated financial statements include our accounts, the accounts of our
  wholly-owned subsidiaries and the accounts of joint venture entities in which
  we own a majority voting interest with the ability to control operations and
  where no substantive participating rights or substantive kick out rights have
  been granted to the noncontrolling interests.  In addition, we consolidate
  those entities deemed to be variable interest entities in which we are
  determined to be the primary beneficiary. All material intercompany
  transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

We make judgments about which entities are VIEs based on an
  assessment of whether (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do
  not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment
  at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without
  additional subordinated financial support. We

make judgments with respect to our level of influence or control of an entity
  and whether we are (or are not) the primary beneficiary of a VIE.
  Consideration of various factors includes, but is not limited to, our ability
  to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity's economic
  performance, our form of ownership interest, our representation on the entity's
  governing body, the size and seniority of our investment, our ability and the
  rights of other investors to participate in policy making decisions, replace
  the manager and/or liquidate the entity, if applicable. Our ability to
  correctly assess our influence or control over an entity at inception of our
  involvement or on a continuous basis when determining the primary beneficiary
  of a VIE affects the presentation of these entities in our consolidated
  financial statements. If we perform a primary beneficiary analysis at a date
  other than at inception of the variable interest entity, our assumptions may
  be different and may result in the identification of a different primary
  beneficiary.

Income Taxes

As
  part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements,
  significant management judgment is required to evaluate our compliance with
  REIT requirements.

Our
  determinations are based on interpretation of tax laws, and our conclusions
  may have an impact on the income tax expense recognized. Adjustments to
  income tax expense may be required as a result of: (i) audits conducted
  by federal and state tax authorities, (ii) our ability to qualify as a
  REIT, (iii) the potential for built-in-gain recognized related to
  prior-tax-free acquisitions of C corporations, and (iv) changes in tax
  laws. Adjustments required in any given period are included in income.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Nature of Critical

Accounting Estimate

Assumptions/Approach

Used

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

We
  review our long-lived assets for potential impairment in accordance with U.S.
  GAAP. An impairment charge must be recognized when the carrying value of a
  long-lived asset is not recoverable.  The carrying value is not recoverable
  if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from
  the use and eventual disposition of the asset.  If it is determined that a
  permanent impairment of a long-lived asset has occurred, the carrying value
  of the asset is reduced to its fair value and an impairment charge is
  recognized for the difference between the carrying value and the fair value.

The
  net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by
  property basis to determine if there are indicators of impairment.  These
  indicators may include anticipated operating losses at the property level,
  the tenant’s inability to make rent payments, a decision to dispose of an
  asset before the end of its estimated useful life and changes in the market
  that may permanently reduce the value of the property.  If indicators of
  impairment exist, then the undiscounted future cash flows from the most
  likely use of the property are compared to the current net book value.  This
  analysis requires us to determine if indicators of impairment exist and to
  estimate the most likely stream of cash flows to be generated from the
  property during the period the property is expected to be held.

During the year ended December 31, 2011, we sold 42 properties, for
  net gains of $61,160,000.  At

December 31, 2011

, we had five medical facilities and one seniors housing
  triple-net facility that satisfied the requirements for held for sale
  treatment. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, we recorded
  impairment charges of $12,194,000 related to certain held for sale properties
  to adjust the carrying values to estimated fair values less costs to sell
  based on current sales price expectations.

Allowance for Loan Losses

We
  maintain an allowance for loan losses in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  The
  allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to
  absorb potential losses in our loans receivable.  The determination of the
  allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans.  If
  this evaluation indicates that there is a greater risk of loan charge-offs,
  additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may be required.  A
  loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is
  probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled
  according to the contractual terms of the original loan agreement. 
  Consistent with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed
  impaired.  To the extent circumstances improve and the risk of collectability
  is diminished, we will return these loans to full accrual status.

The
  determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of all
  outstanding loans, including general economic conditions and estimated
  collectability of loan payments and principal. We evaluate the collectability
  of our loans receivable based on a combination of factors, including, but not
  limited to, delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs, financial
  strength of the borrower and guarantors and value of the underlying property.

As a
  result of our quarterly evaluations, we recorded $2,010,000 of provision for
  loan losses during the year ended December 31, 2011. This amount includes the
  write-off of loans totaling $3,286,000 primarily related to a hospital.  This
  was offset by a net reduction of the allowance balance by $1,276,000, resulting
  in an allowance for loan losses of $0 relating to real estate loans with
  outstanding balances of $6,244,000, all of which were on non-accrual status
  at December 31, 2011.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Nature of Critical

Accounting Estimate

Assumptions/Approach

Used

Revenue Recognition

Revenue
  is recorded in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires that revenue be
  recognized after four basic criteria are met. These four criteria include
  persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the rendering of service, fixed and
  determinable income and reasonably assured collectability. If the
  collectability of revenue is determined incorrectly, the amount and timing of
  our reported revenue could be significantly affected. Interest income on
  loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding
  subject to an evaluation of collectability risk. Substantially all of our
  operating leases contain fixed and/or contingent escalating rent structures.
  Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a
  straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a
  collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent
  rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental
  payments due for the period.  We recognize resident fees and services, other
  than move in fees, monthly as services are provided.  Move in fees and
  related costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the
  applicable lease agreement.  Lease agreements with residents generally have a
  term of one year and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days’ notice.

We
  evaluate the collectability of our revenues and related receivables on an
  on-going basis. We evaluate collectability based on assumptions and other
  considerations including, but not limited to, the certainty of payment,
  payment history, the financial strength of the investment’s underlying
  operations as measured by cash flows and payment coverages, the value of the
  underlying collateral and guaranties and current economic conditions.

If our
  evaluation indicates that collectability is not reasonably assured, we may
  place an investment on non-accrual or reserve against all or a portion of
  current income as an offset to revenue.

For
  the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized $41,070,000 of interest
  income, $456,085,000 of resident fees and services, and $928,846,000 of
  rental income, including discontinued operations. For the year ended December
  31, 2011, cash receipts on leases with deferred revenue provisions equaled $9,490,000
  as compared to gross straight-line rental income recognized of $41,068,000. At
  December 31, 2011, our straight-line receivable balance was $119,555,000, net
  of reserves totaling $265,000. Also at December 31, 2011, we had real estate
  loans with outstanding balances of $6,244,000 on non-accrual status.

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments

The
  valuation of derivative instruments is accounted for in accordance with U.S.
  GAAP, which requires companies to record derivatives at fair market value on
  the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.

The
  valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make estimates and
  judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. Fair values for our
  derivatives are estimated by utilizing pricing models that consider forward
  yield curves and discount rates. Such amounts and their recognition are
  subject to significant estimates which may change in the future. At December
  31, 2011, we participated in eight interest rate swap agreements which are
  reported at their fair value of $2,854,000 in other liabilities.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Nature of Critical

Accounting Estimate

Assumptions/Approach

Used

Business Combinations

Real
  property developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of
  construction period interest. The cost of real property acquired is allocated
  to net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their respective
  fair values. Tangible assets primarily consist of land, buildings and
  improvements. The remaining purchase price is allocated among identifiable
  intangible assets primarily consisting of the above or below market component
  of in-place leases and the value of in-place leases. The total amount of
  other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease
  values and customer relationship values based on management’s evaluation of the
  specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease and the Company’s overall
  relationship with that respective tenant.

We make estimates as part of our allocation of the purchase
  price of acquisitions to the various components of the acquisition based upon
  the relative fair value of each component. The most significant components of
  our allocations are typically the allocation of fair value to the buildings
  as-if-vacant, land and in-place leases. In the case of the fair value of
  buildings and the allocation of value to land and other intangibles, our
  estimates of the values of these components will affect the amount of
  depreciation and amortization we record over the estimated useful life of the
  property acquired or the remaining lease term. In the case of the value of
  in-place leases, we make our best estimates based on our evaluation of the
  specific characteristics of each tenant's lease. Factors considered include
  estimates of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods,
  market conditions and costs to execute similar leases. Our assumptions affect
  the amount of future revenue that we will recognize over the remaining lease
  term for the acquired in-place leases

We
  compute depreciation and amortization on our properties using the straight-line
  method based on their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to
  40 years for buildings and five to 15 years for improvements. Lives
  for intangibles are based on the remaining term of the underlying leases.  For
  the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded $261,960,000, $62,789,000 and $98,856,000
  as provisions for depreciation and amortization relating to buildings,
  improvements and intangibles, respectively, including amounts reclassified as
  discontinued operations. The average useful life of our buildings,
  improvements and intangibles was 38.5 years, 11.8 years and 2.7 years,
  respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2011.

Impact of Inflation

During the past three years, inflation has not
significantly affected our earnings because of the moderate inflation rate.
Additionally, our earnings are primarily long-term investments with fixed rates
of return. These investments are mainly financed with a combination of equity,
senior unsecured notes and borrowings under our unsecured line of credit
arrangement. During inflationary periods, which generally are accompanied by
rising interest rates, our ability to grow may be adversely affected because
the yield on new investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing
costs. Presuming the current inflation rate remains moderate and long-term
interest rates do not increase significantly, we believe that inflation will
not impact the availability of equity and debt financing for us.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk

We
are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from
adverse changes in interest rates. We seek to mitigate the effects of
fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new investments with
new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. We may or may not
elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure.
These decisions are principally based on our policy to match our variable rate
investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the general trend
in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future
volatility of interest rates. This section is presented to provide a discussion
of the risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates.

We
historically borrow on our unsecured line of credit arrangement to acquire,
construct or make loans relating to health care and seniors housing properties.
Then, as market conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed
rate debt to repay the borrowings under the unsecured line of credit
arrangement.

A
change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with
our fixed rate debt. Interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value
of our fixed rate debt. Changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity
of this fixed rate debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and
earnings, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt,
variable rate debt, equity or repaid by the sale of assets. To illustrate the
impact of changes in the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity
analysis on our fixed rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in
net present values arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to
determine the instruments’ change in fair value. The following table summarizes
the analysis performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands):

December
  31, 2011

December
  31, 2010

Principal

Change
  in

Principal

Change
  in

balance

fair
  value

balance

fair
  value

Senior unsecured notes

$

4,464,927

$

(342,460)

$

3,064,930

$

(248,884)

Secured debt

1,693,283

(82,583)

1,030,070

(51,973)

Totals

$

6,158,210

$

(425,043)

$

4,095,000

$

(300,857)

As of

December 31, 2011,

we
had eight interest rate swaps for a total aggregate notional amount of
$135,445,000.  The swaps hedge interest payments associated with long-term
LIBOR based borrowings and mature between December 31, 2012 and December 31,
2013.

Our variable rate debt, including our unsecured line
of credit arrangements, is reflected at fair value. At December 31, 2011, we
had $610,000,000 outstanding related to our variable rate lines of credit and $415,101,000
outstanding related to our variable rate secured debt. Assuming no changes in
outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result in increased
annual interest expense of $10,251,000. At December 31, 2010, we had $300,000,000
outstanding related to our variable rate line of credit and $103,645,000
outstanding related to our variable rate secured debt. Assuming no changes in
outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in
increased annual interest expense of $4,036,000.

We are subject to risks associated with debt
financing, including the risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced
or that the terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of
current indebtedness. The majority of our borrowings were completed under
indentures or contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness we
may incur. Accordingly, in the event that we are unable to raise additional
equity or borrow money because of these limitations, our ability to acquire
additional properties may be limited.

For additional information regarding fair values of
financial instruments, see “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical
Accounting Policies” and Note 16 to our audited consolidated financial
statements.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Item 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The
Board of Directors and Shareholders of Health Care REIT, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of Health Care REIT, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the
related consolidated statements of income, equity, and cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedules listed in Item 15(a)(2) of
this Form 10-K. These financial statements and schedules are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial
position of Health Care REIT, Inc. at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the
related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Health Care
REIT, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
and our report dated February 17, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion
thereon.

/s/

Ernst & Young

LLP

Toledo, Ohio

February
17, 2012


December
  31,

December
  31,



Assets

(In
  thousands)

Real estate investments:

Real property owned:

Land and land improvements

$

1,116,756

$

727,050

Buildings and improvements

13,073,747

7,627,132

Acquired lease intangibles

428,199

258,079

Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation

36,115

23,441

Construction in progress

189,502

356,793

Gross real property owned

14,844,319

8,992,495

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization

(1,194,476)

(836,966)

Net real property owned

13,649,843

8,155,529

Real estate loans receivable:

Real estate loans receivable

292,507

436,580

Less allowance for losses on loans receivable

-

(1,276)

Net real estate loans receivable

292,507

435,304

Net real estate investments

13,942,350

8,590,833

Other assets:

Investments in unconsolidated entities

241,722

237,107

Goodwill

68,321

51,207

Deferred loan expenses

58,584

32,960

Cash and cash equivalents

163,482

131,570

Restricted cash

69,620

79,069

Receivables and other assets

380,527

328,988

Total other assets

982,256

860,901

Total assets

$

14,924,606

$

9,451,734

Liabilities and equity

Liabilities:

Borrowings under unsecured line of credit arrangements

$

610,000

$

300,000

Senior unsecured notes

4,434,107

3,034,949

Secured debt

2,112,649

1,125,906

Capital lease obligations

83,996

8,881

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

371,557

244,345

Total liabilities

7,612,309

4,714,081

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

33,650

4,553

Equity:

Preferred stock

1,010,417

291,667

Common stock

192,299

147,155

Capital in excess of par value

7,019,714

4,932,468

Treasury stock

(13,535)

(11,352)

Cumulative net income

1,893,806

1,676,196

Cumulative dividends

(2,972,129)

(2,427,881)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

(11,928)

(11,099)

Other equity

6,120

5,697

Total Health Care REIT, Inc. stockholders’ equity

7,124,764

4,602,851

Noncontrolling interests

153,883

130,249

Total equity

7,278,647

4,733,100

Total liabilities and equity

$

14,924,606

$

9,451,734

See
accompanying notes


Year
  Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Rental income

$

912,712

$

558,191

$

474,615

Resident fees and services

456,085

51,006

-

Interest income

41,070

40,855

40,885

Other income

11,295

7,245

7,788

Total revenues

1,421,162

657,297

523,288

Expenses:

Interest expense

318,395

151,296

96,856

Property operating expenses

379,476

79,293

42,501

Depreciation and amortization

418,406

186,963

140,692

General and administrative

77,201

54,626

49,691

Transaction costs

70,224

46,660

-

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt

(979)

34,171

25,107

Provision for loan losses

2,010

29,684

23,261

Total expenses

1,264,733

582,693

378,108

Income from continuing operations before income taxes

and income from unconsolidated entities

156,429

74,604

145,180

Income tax (expense) benefit

(1,388)

(364)

(168)

Income from unconsolidated entities

5,772

6,673

-

Income from continuing operations

160,813

80,913

145,012

Discontinued operations:

Gain (loss) on sales of properties

61,160

36,115

43,394

Impairment of assets

(12,194)

(947)

(25,223)

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

2,937

12,803

29,744

Discontinued operations, net

51,903

47,971

47,915

Net income

212,716

128,884

192,927

Less:  Preferred stock dividends

60,502

21,645

22,079

Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests

(1)

(4,894)


(342)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

157,108

$

106,882

$

171,190

Average number of common shares outstanding:

Basic

173,741

127,656

114,207

Diluted

174,401

128,208

114,612

Earnings per share:

Basic:

Income from continuing operations

attributable to common stockholders

$

0.61

$

0.46

$

1.08

Discontinued operations, net

0.30

0.38

0.42

Net income attributable to common stockholders*

$

0.90

$

0.84

$

1.50

Diluted:

Income from continuing operations

attributable to common stockholders

$

0.60

$

0.46

$

1.08

Discontinued operations, net

0.30

0.37

0.42

Net income attributable to common stockholders*

$

0.90

$

0.83

$

1.49

* Amounts may not sum due to rounding

(1) Includes amounts attributable to
redeemable noncontrolling interests

See accompanying notes


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

(in thousands)

Accumulated

Capital
  in

Other

Preferred

Common

Excess
  of

Treasury

Cumulative

Cumulative

Comprehensive

Other

Noncontrolling

Stock

Stock

Par
  Value

Stock

Net
  Income

Dividends

Income

Equity

Interests

Total

Balances at December 31, 2008

$

289,929

104,635

3,204,690

(5,145)

1,354,400

(1,723,819)

(1,113)

4,105

10,603

$

3,238,285

Comprehensive income:

Net income

193,269

(342)

192,927

Other comprehensive income:

Unrealized gain (loss) on equity investments



Unrecognized SERP actuarial gain (loss)



Cash flow hedge activity

(2,542)

(2,542)

Total comprehensive income

191,149

Contributions by noncontrolling interests

2,255

2,255

Distributions to noncontrolling interests

(2,104)

(2,104)

Amounts related to issuance of common stock

from dividend reinvestment and stock

incentive plans, net of forfeitures

1,751

66,690

(2,474)

(930)

65,037

Net proceeds from sale of common stock

16,969

628,070

645,039

Conversion of preferred stock

(1,246)


1,216

-

Option compensation expense

1,629

1,629

Cash dividends paid:

Common stock cash dividends

(311,760)

(311,760)

Preferred stock cash dividends

(22,079)

(22,079)

Balances at December 31, 2009

288,683

123,385

3,900,666

(7,619)

1,547,669

(2,057,658)

(2,891)

4,804

10,412

3,807,451

Comprehensive income:

Net income

128,527


128,884

Other comprehensive income:

Unrealized gain (loss) on equity investments



Unrecognized SERP actuarial gain (loss)

(199)

(199)

Cash flow hedge activity

(8,063)

(8,063)

Total comprehensive income

120,676

Contributions by noncontrolling interests

43,640

122,781

166,421

Distributions to noncontrolling interests

(3,301)

(3,301)

Amounts related to issuance of common stock

from dividend reinvestment and stock

incentive plans, net of forfeitures

2,300

97,696

(3,733)

(741)

95,522

Net proceeds from sale of common stock

21,131

884,255

905,386

Equity component of convertible debt

(9,689)

(9,689)

Equity consideration in business combinations

16,667

2,721

19,388

Redemption of preferred stock

(165)

(165)

Conversion of preferred stock

(13,518)


13,179

-

Option compensation expense

1,634

1,634

Cash dividends paid:

Common stock cash dividends

(348,578)

(348,578)

Preferred stock cash dividends

(21,645)

(21,645)

Balances at December 31, 2010

291,667

147,155

4,932,468

(11,352)

1,676,196

(2,427,881)

(11,099)

5,697

130,249

4,733,100

Comprehensive income:

Net income

217,610

(3,591)

214,019

Other comprehensive income:

Unrealized gain (loss) on equity investments

(122)

(122)

Unrecognized SERP actuarial gain (loss)

(2,115)

(2,115)

Cash flow hedge activity

1,408

1,408

Total comprehensive income

213,190

Contributions by noncontrolling interests

6,468

65,361

71,829

Distributions to noncontrolling interests

(38,136)

(38,136)

Amounts related to issuance of common stock

from dividend reinvestment and stock

incentive plans, net of forfeitures

2,895

138,989

(2,183)

(1,494)

138,207

Net proceeds from sale of common stock

42,249

1,964,102

2,006,351

Net proceeds from sale of preferred stock

718,750

(22,313)

696,437

Option compensation expense

1,917

1,917

Cash dividends paid:

Common stock cash dividends

(483,746)

(483,746)

Preferred stock cash dividends

(60,502)

(60,502)

Balances at December 31, 2011

$

1,010,417

$

192,299

$

7,019,714

$

(13,535)

$

1,893,806

$

(2,972,129)

$

(11,928)

$

6,120

$

153,883

$

7,278,647

See accompanying notes


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Year
  Ended December 31,




(In
  thousands)

Operating activities

Net income

$

212,716

$

128,884

$

192,927

Adjustments to reconcile net income to

net cash provided from (used in) operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

423,605

202,543

164,923

Other amortization expenses

16,851

17,169

15,412

Provision for loan losses

2,010

29,684

23,261

Impairment of assets

12,194


25,223

Stock-based compensation expense

10,786

11,823

9,633

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt

(979)

34,171

25,107

Income from unconsolidated entities

(5,772)

(6,673)

-

Rental income in excess of cash received

(31,578)

(6,594)

11,259

Amortization related to above (below) market leases, net

(2,507)

(2,856)

(1,713)

Loss (gain) on sales of properties

(61,160)

(36,115)

(43,394)

Other income less than (in excess of) cash received

-

-

(5,000)

Distributions by unconsolidated entities

6,149

-

-

Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other liabilities

10,653

12,293

(311)

Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets

(4,744)

(20,535)

(36,068)

Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities

588,224

364,741

381,259

Investing activities

Investment in real property, net of cash acquired

(4,905,122)

(2,074,176)

(598,959)

Capitalized interest

(13,164)

(20,792)

(41,170)

Investment in real estate loans receivable

(51,477)

(97,265)

(74,417)

Other investments, net of payments

(22,986)

(133,894)

(22,133)

Principal collected on real estate loans receivable

188,811

43,495

111,779

Contributions to unconsolidated entities

(2,784)

(196,413)

-

Distributions by unconsolidated entities

9,135


-

Decrease (increase) in restricted cash

30,248

(52,124)

130,833

Proceeds from sales of real property

247,210

219,027

224,007

Net cash provided from (used in) investing activities

(4,520,129)

(2,312,039)

(270,060)

Financing activities

Net increase (decrease) under unsecured lines of credit
  arrangements

310,000

160,000

(430,000)

Proceeds from issuance of senior unsecured notes

1,381,086

1,821,683

-

Payments to extinguish senior unsecured notes

(3)

(495,542)

(201,048)

Net proceeds from the issuance of secured debt

119,030

154,306

276,277

Payments on secured debt

(85,111)

(217,711)

(107,736)

Net proceeds from the issuance of common stock

2,137,594

995,438

704,533

Net proceeds from the issuance of preferred stock

696,437

-

-

Decrease (increase) in deferred loan expenses

(28,867)

(3,869)

(7,431)

Contributions by noncontrolling interests

(1)

8,604

2,611

2,255

Distributions to noncontrolling interests

(1)

(30,705)

(3,301)

(2,104)

Cash distributions to stockholders

(544,248)

(370,223)

(333,839)

Net cash provided from (used in) financing activities

3,963,817

2,043,392

(99,093)

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

31,912

96,094

12,106

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

131,570

35,476

23,370

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

163,482

$

131,570

$

35,476

Supplemental cash flow information:

Interest paid

$

285,884

$

156,207

$

143,697

Income taxes paid




(1)

Includes amounts attributable to redeemable
noncontrolling interests.

See accompanying notes.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

1. Business

Health Care REIT, Inc., an S&P
500 company with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is an equity real estate
investment trust (“REIT”) that invests in seniors housing and health care real
estate. Our full service platform also offers property management and
development services to our customers. As of December 31, 2011, our diversified
portfolio consisted of 937 properties in 46 states. Founded in 1970, we were
the first real estate investment trust to invest exclusively in health care
facilities.

2. Accounting Policies and Related Matters

Principles of Consolidation

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned
subsidiaries and joint venture entities that we control, through voting rights
or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated in consolidation.

At
inception of joint venture transactions, we identify entities for which control
is achieved through means other than voting rights (“variable interest entities”
or “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary
of its operations. A variable interest entity is broadly defined as an entity
where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a
controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is
insufficient to finance that entity's activities without additional
subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined
to be the primary beneficiary.  ASC 810,

Consolidations

, requires enterprises
to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a VIE will need
to be consolidated on a continuous basis. This evaluation is based on an
enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the activities of a variable
interest entity that most significantly impact that entity’s economic
performance.

For
investments in joint ventures, we evaluate the type of rights held by the
limited partner(s), which may preclude consolidation in circumstances in which
the sole general partner would otherwise consolidate the limited partnership.
The assessment of limited partners' rights and their impact on the presumption
of control over a limited partnership by the sole general partner should be
made when an investor becomes the sole general partner and should be reassessed
if (i) there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the
rights of the limited partners, (ii) the sole general partner increases or
decreases its ownership in the limited partnership, or (iii) there is an
increase or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership
interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of limited
liability companies.

Use of Es

timates

The
preparation of the financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) requires us to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements
and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Revenue Recognition

Revenue
is recorded in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires that revenue be
recognized after four basic criteria are met. These four criteria include
persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the rendering of service, fixed and
determinable income and reasonably assured collectability. Interest income on
loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding
subject to an evaluation of collectability risk. Substantially all of our
operating leases contain either fixed or contingent escalating rent structures.
Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a
straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability
assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators
is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the
period.  Leases in our medical office building portfolio typically include some
form of operating expense reimbursement by the tenant.  Certain payments made
to operators are treated as lease incentives and amortized as a reduction of
revenue over the lease term.  We recognize resident fees and services, other
than move in fees, monthly as services are provided.  Move in fees and related
costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the applicable
lease agreement.  Lease agreements with residents generally have a term of one
year and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days’ notice.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash
and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an original
maturity of three months or less.

Restricted Cash

Restricted
cash primarily consists of amounts held by lenders to provide future payments
for real estate taxes, insurance, tenant and capital improvements and amounts
held in escrow relating to acquisitions we are entitled to receive over a
period of time as outlined in the escrow agreement.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Deferred Loan Expenses

Deferred
loan expenses are costs incurred by us in connection with the issuance,
assumption and amendments of debt arrangements. We amortize these costs over
the term of the debt using the straight-line method, which approximates the
effective interest method.

Investments in Unconsolidated Entities

Investments
in less than majority owned entities where our interests represent a general
partnership interest but substantive participating rights or substantive
kick-out rights have been granted to the limited partners, or where our
interests do not represent the general partnership interest and we do not
control the major operating and financial policies of the entity, are reported
under the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method of accounting,
our share of the investee’s earnings or losses is included in our consolidated
results of operations. To the extent that our cost basis is different from the
basis reflected at the entity level, the basis difference is generally amortized
over the lives of the related assets and liabilities, and such amortization is
included in our share of equity in earnings of the entity.  The initial
carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on the amount
paid to purchase the entity interest or the estimated fair value of the assets
prior to the sale of interests in the entity. Where we do not have the ability
to exercise influence over the company, the investment is accounted for under
the cost method.  These equity investments represented a minimal ownership
interest in these companies.  We evaluate our equity method investments for
impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value of the equity
method investment to its carrying value. When we determine a decline in the
estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying value is
other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.

Redeemable
Noncontrolling Interests

Certain
noncontrolling interests were redeemable at fair value at December 31, 2011 and
2010. Accordingly, we record the carrying amount of the noncontrolling
interests at the greater of (i) the initial carrying amount, increased or
decreased for the noncontrolling interest’s share of net income or loss and its
share of other comprehensive income or loss and dividends or (ii) the
redemption value.  In accordance with ASC 810, the redeemable noncontrolling
interests were classified outside of permanent equity, as a mezzanine item, in
the balance sheet.

Real Property Owned

Real
property developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of
construction period interest. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are
expensed as incurred.  Property acquisitions are accounted for as business
combinations where we measure the assets acquired, liabilities (including assumed
debt and contingencies) and any noncontrolling interests at their fair values
on the acquisition date.  The cost of real property acquired, which represents
substantially all of the purchase price, is allocated to net tangible and
identifiable intangible assets based on their respective fair values. These
properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
lives which range from 15 to


years for buildings and 5 to


years for
improvements. Tangible assets primarily consist of land, buildings and
improvements.  We consider costs incurred in conjunction with re-leasing
properties, including tenant improvements and lease commissions, to represent
the acquisition of productive assets and, accordingly, such costs are reflected
as investment activities in our statement of cash flows.

The
remaining purchase price is allocated among identifiable intangible assets
primarily consisting of the above or below market component of in-place leases and
the value of in-place leases. The value allocable to the above or below market
component of the acquired in-place lease is determined based upon the present
value (using a discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the
acquired leases) of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to
be paid pursuant to the lease over its remaining term, and
(ii) management’s estimate of the amounts that would be paid using fair
market rates over the remaining term of the lease. The amounts allocated to
above market leases are included in acquired lease intangibles and below market
leases are included in other liabilities in the balance sheet and are amortized
to rental income over the remaining terms of the respective leases.

The
total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to
in-place lease values and customer relationship values based on management’s
evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease and the
Company’s overall relationship with that respective tenant. Characteristics
considered by management in allocating these values include the nature and
extent of the Company’s existing business relationships with the tenant, growth
prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the tenant’s credit
quality and expectations of lease renewals, among other factors

.

The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly
on a property by property basis to determine if facts and circumstances suggest
that the assets may be impaired or that the depreciable life may need to be
changed. We consider external factors relating to each asset and the existence
of a master lease which may link the cash flows of an individual asset to a
larger portfolio of assets leased to the same tenant. If these factors and the
projected undiscounted cash flows of the asset over the remaining depreciation
period indicate that the asset will not be recoverable, the carrying value is
reduced to the estimated fair market value.

In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating
investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

health care industries. A downturn in the real estate
industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to
sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us.

Capitalization of Construction Period Interest

We
capitalize interest costs associated with funds used to finance the
construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is
based upon the balance outstanding during the construction period using the
rate of interest which approximates our cost of financing. We capitalized
interest costs of $13,164,000, $20,792,000, and $41,170,000 during 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively, related to construction of real property owned by us. Our
interest expense reflected in the consolidated statements of income has been
reduced by the amounts capitalized.

Gain on Sale
of Assets

We
recognize sales of assets only upon the closing of the transaction with the
purchaser. Payments received from purchasers prior to closing are recorded as
deposits and classified as other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Gains on assets sold are recognized using the full accrual method upon closing
when (i) the collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured, (ii) we
are not obligated to perform significant activities after the sale to earn the
profit, (iii) we have received adequate initial investment from the purchaser and
(iv) other profit recognition criteria have been satisfied. Gains may be
deferred in whole or in part until the sales satisfy the requirements of gain
recognition on sales of real estate.

Real Estate Loans Receivable

Real
estate loans receivable consist of mortgage loans and other real estate loans.
Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal
amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectability risks. The loans
are primarily collateralized by a first, second or third mortgage lien, a
leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the partnership interest in, the
related properties, corporate guaranties and/or personal guaranties.

Allowance
for Losses on Loans Receivable

The
allowance for losses on loans receivable is maintained at a level believed
adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The determination
of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of these loans, including
general economic conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments. We
evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable based on a combination of
factors, including, but not limited to, delinquency status, historical loan
charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and guarantors and value of the
underlying collateral. If such factors indicate that there is greater risk of
loan charge-offs, additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may
be required. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events,
it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled
according to the contractual terms of the original loan agreement. Consistent
with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired. At
December 31, 2011, we had loans with outstanding balances of $6,244,000 on
non-accrual status ($

9,691,000

at December 31, 2010). To the extent
circumstances improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we will
return these loans to full accrual status. While a loan is on non-accrual
status, any cash receipts are applied against the outstanding principal
balance.

Goodwill

We
account for goodwill in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Goodwill is tested annually
for impairment and is tested for impairment more frequently if events and
circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. An impairment loss is
recognized to the extent that the carrying amount, including goodwill, exceeds
the reporting unit’s fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill is less
than the carrying amount of that goodwill.  We did not have any goodwill
impairments for the years ended December 31, 2011 or 2010.

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments

The
valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make estimates and judgments
that affect the fair value of the instruments. Fair values for our derivatives
are estimated by utilizing pricing models that consider forward yield curves
and discount rates. Such amounts and the recognition of such amounts are
subject to significant estimates that may change in the future. See Note 11
for additional information.

Federal
Income Tax

No
provision has been made for federal income taxes since we have elected to be
treated as a real estate investment trust under the applicable provisions of
the Internal Revenue Code, and we believe that we have met the requirements for
qualification as such for each taxable year. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are
subject to federal, state and local income taxes. See Note 18 for
additional information.

Earnings Per Share


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Basic earnings per share is computed
by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average
number of shares outstanding for the period adjusted for non-vested shares of
restricted stock. The computation of diluted earnings per share is similar to
basic earnings per share, except that the number of shares is increased to
include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding
if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued.

New Accounting Standards

In
April 2011, FASB issued ASU No. 2011-02, A Creditor’s Determination
of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt Restructuring. It provided
additional guidance to assist creditors in determining whether a restructuring
of a receivable meets the criteria to be considered a troubled debt
restructuring. The amendments in this ASU are effective for the first interim
or annual period beginning on or after June 15, 2011, and are to be
applied retrospectively to the beginning of the annual period of adoption. The
adoption of this ASU did not have a material impact on our consolidated
financial position or results of operations.

In
September 2011, FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Testing for Goodwill
Impairment. It allows companies the option to first assess qualitative factors
to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a
determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a
reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.  Companies would then only
proceed to the existing two step impairment test if, after assessing the
totality of the events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more
likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its
carrying amount.  The ASU is effective for annual and interim goodwill tests
performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 with early
adoption permitted.  We have early adopted this ASU and applied it to our
annual goodwill assessment performed on October 1, 2011.

In
June 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05, “Statement
of Comprehensive Income” (“ASU 2011-05”), which requires entities to present
net income and other comprehensive income in either a single continuous
statement or in two separate, but consecutive, statements of net income and
other comprehensive income.  ASU 2011-05 will only impact the company’s
financial presentation as the company currently presents items of other
comprehensive income in the statement of changes in equity.  ASU 2011-05 will
be effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2012.

Reclassifications

Certain
amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to current year
presentation

.

3. Real Property Acquisitions and
Development

Genesis
Acquisition

On April 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the real
estate assets (


properties) of privately-owned Genesis HealthCare Corporation.  The total
purchase price of approximately $2,483,398,000 is comprised of $2,400,000,000 of
cash consideration, the fair value of capital lease obligations assumed totaling
approximately $75,144,000 and approximately $

8,254,000

relating to uncertain tax positions that were
assumed in the transaction (see Note 18 for further discussion on such tax
positions and the related indemnification received).  The total purchase price has
been allocated on a preliminary basis in the amounts of $144,091,000 to land
and land improvements, $

2,331,053,000

to buildings and improvements and $8,254,000 to
receivables and other assets.  We funded the cash consideration and other
associated costs of the acquisition primarily through the proceeds of the
offerings of common stock, preferred stock and senior unsecured notes completed
in March 2011.  Effective April 1, 2011, we began leasing the acquired
facilities to Genesis pursuant to a master lease. In addition to rent, the
triple-net master lease requires Genesis to pay all operating costs, utilities,
real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs and all
obligations under the ground leases. All obligations under the master lease
have been guaranteed by FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC, which was spun-off
by Genesis prior to closing the acquisition. The initial term is fifteen years.
Genesis has one option to renew for an additional term of fifteen years. The
master lease provides that the base rent for the first year is $198,000,000 and
will increase at least 1.75% but no more than 3.50% (subject to CPI changes)
for each of the years two through six during the initial term and at least
1.50% but no more than 3.00% per year thereafter (subject to CPI changes).  We are
recognizing rental income based on the minimum rent escalators during the
initial term.  These properties are reported in our seniors housing triple-net
segment.

The following unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations have been
prepared as if the Genesis acquisition had occurred as of January 1, 2010 based
on the preliminary purchase price allocations discussed above.  Amounts are in
thousands, except per share data:


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended December 31,



Revenues

$

1,476,769

$

879,726

Income from continuing operations attributable to common
  stockholders

$

121,317

$

93,193

Income from continuing operations attributable to common
  stockholders per share:

Basic

$

0.66

$

0.60

Diluted

$

0.66

$

0.59

Strategic
Medical Office Partnership

On
December 31, 2010, we formed a strategic partnership with a national medical
office building company (“MOBJV”) whereby the partnership invested in


medical office
properties.  We own a controlling interest in 11 properties and consolidate them. 
Consolidation is based on a combination of ownership interest and control of operational
decision-making authority.  We do not own a controlling interest in six properties
and account for them under the equity method.  Our investment in the strategic
partnership provides us access to health systems and includes development and
property management resources.  The results of operations for this partnership
have been included in our consolidated results of operations for 2011 and 2010
and are a component of our medical facilities segment.

In
conjunction with the formation of the partnership, we contributed $225,173,000
of cash, convertible preferred stock valued at

$16,667,000

, options valued at $2,721,000 and a note payable
of

$8,333,000

with
an interest rate of 6%.  MOBJV contributed the properties to the partnership
and the secured debt relating to these properties in exchange for their ownership
interest in the partnership.  The partnership contains certain contingent
consideration arrangements ranging from

$0 to $35,008,000

.  Amounts to be paid are contingent upon
certain occupancy and development project performance thresholds.  Of this
amount, we recognized $29,439,000 as an estimate of additional purchase
consideration based on the probability amounts will be paid by the expiration
date of the commitments.  Of the amount recognized, $12,500,000 is required to
be settled in the Company’s common stock upon the achievement of certain
performance thresholds.  The total purchase price for the assets acquired by
the partnership has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible
assets and liabilities based upon their respective fair values in accordance with
the Company’s accounting policies. Goodwill represents the estimated fair value
of the future development pipeline expected to be generated. Cash flows from
this future pipeline are expected to come from development activities and the
ability to perform the management functions at the assets after the properties
are developed.  The noncontrolling interest relating to the properties is also
reflected at estimated fair value.  The weighted average useful life of the
acquired intangibles was 26.2 years.

The following table
presents the final allocation of the purchase price to assets and liabilities
assumed, based on their estimated fair values (in thousands

):

Land and land improvements

$

10,240

Buildings and improvements

170,886

Acquired lease intangibles

41,519

Investment in unconsolidated entity

21,321

Goodwill

68,321

Other acquired intangibles

36,439

Cash and cash equivalents

3,873

Restricted cash


Receivables and other assets

5,390

Total assets acquired

358,096

Secured debt

61,664

Below market lease intangibles

4,188

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

36,835

Total liabilities assumed

102,687

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

10,848

Preferred stock

16,667

Capital in excess of par

2,721

Net assets acquired

$

225,173


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Seniors
Housing Operating Partnerships

Under the
provisions of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007
(“RIDEA”), for taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008, we may lease
“qualified health care properties” on an arm’s-length basis to our taxable REIT
subsidiary (“TRS”) if the property is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by
a person who qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (“EIK”). A
“qualified health care property” includes real property and any personal
property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital,
nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified
continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or
nursing or ancillary services to patients. The “qualified health care
properties” are operated by an EIK under a management agreement.  The lease
agreement required under RIDEA between us and our TRS is eliminated for
accounting purposes in consolidation.

During
2010, we entered into two partnerships that were structured under RIDEA, and
during 2011, we entered into three additional partnerships that were structured
under RIDEA and added certain properties to existing RIDEA structured
investments. Resident level rents and related operating expenses for these
facilities are reported in the consolidated financial statements and are
subject to federal taxes as the operations of such facilities are included in our
TRS.  The results of all such partnerships and acquisitions have been included
in our consolidated results of operations from the acquisition date and are a
component of our senior housing operating segment.  Consolidation of all such
partnerships is based on a combination of ownership interest and control of
operational decision-making authority.  The weighted average useful life of the
acquired intangibles was

2.4

years at December 31, 2011.

Merrill
Gardens Partnership

During
the three months ended September 30, 2010, we completed the formation of our
partnership with Merrill Gardens LLC to own and operate a portfolio of 38
combination seniors housing and care communities located primarily in West
Coast markets. We own an

80%

partnership interest and Merrill Gardens owns
the remaining 20% interest and continues to manage the communities.  The
partnership owns and operates


communities previously owned by us and 25
communities previously owned by Merrill Gardens.

In
conjunction with the formation of the partnership, we contributed $254,885,000
of cash and the 13 properties previously owned by us, and the partnership
assumed the secured debt relating to these properties.  Merrill Gardens
contributed the remaining 25 properties to the partnership and the secured debt
relating to these properties in exchange for their 20% interest in the
partnership.  The 13 properties are recorded at their historical carrying
values and the noncontrolling interest was established based on such values. 
The difference between the fair value of the consideration received relating to
these properties and the historical allocation of the 20% noncontrolling
interest was recorded in capital in excess of par value.  During December 2011,
the partnership acquired nine new communities previously owned by Merrill
Gardens.   In conjunction with the transaction, we contributed $

163,064,000

of cash in
exchange for our 80% interest and  Merrill Gardens contributed the nine
communities and the secured debt relating to these properties in exchange for
their 20% interest.  The total purchase price for the communities acquired
has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and
liabilities based upon their respective fair values in accordance with our
accounting policies.

Benchmark
Partnership

During
March 2011, we completed the formation of our partnership with Benchmark Senior
Living to own and operate a portfolio of 34 seniors housing communities located
in New England. We own a

95%

partnership interest and Benchmark owns the remaining 5% interest and continues
to manage the communities. The 34 communities included in the partnership were
previously owned by The GPT Group and Benchmark.  In conjunction with the
formation of the partnership, we contributed $383,356,000 of cash. Benchmark
contributed its interests in the 34 properties to the partnership and the
secured debt relating to these properties in exchange for its 5% interest in
the partnership. The total purchase price for the communities acquired has been
allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities as
well as the noncontrolling interests based upon their respective fair values in
accordance with our accounting policies.

Other
Partnerships

During
2010 and 2011, in addition to the investments above, we invested through
similar partnerships structured under RIDEA in nine and 21 properties,
respectively.  Our ownership position in these partnerships ranges from 90% to
95% and all are consolidated by us in the financial statements.

The following table presents the aggregated final purchase
price allocations of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed for all
seniors housing operating partnership transactions for the periods presented (in
thousands):


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended December 31,



Land and land improvements

$

112,350

$

75,620

Buildings and improvements

1,512,764

686,911

Acquired lease intangibles

122,371

63,757

Investment in unconsolidated entities

14,960

-

Cash and cash equivalents

38,952

8,532

Restricted cash

20,699

5,899

Receivables and other assets


14,399

Total assets acquired

1,822,997

855,118

Secured debt

796,273

305,167

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

44,483

8,270

Total liabilities assumed

840,756

313,437

Capital in excess of par

6,017

43,641

Noncontrolling interests

69,984

107,774

Net assets acquired

$

906,240

$

390,266

Real
Property Investment Activity

The following is a summary of our real property investment
activity for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2011

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2009

Real property acquisitions:

Seniors housing triple-net

$

3,320,664

$

1,028,529

$

11,650

Seniors housing operating

1,747,485

816,000

-

Medical facilities

(1)

610,843

626,414

56,023

Land parcels

19,084

4,300

-

Total acquisitions

5,698,076

2,475,243

67,673

Less: Assumed debt

(961,928)

(559,508)

-

Assumed other items, net

(210,411)

(208,314)

-

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

4,525,737

1,707,421

67,673

Construction in progress additions:

Seniors housing triple-net

182,626

85,993

333,572

Medical facilities

165,593

252,594

221,760

Total construction in progress additions

348,219

338,587

555,332

Less: Capitalized interest

(13,164)

(20,320)

(40,969)

Accruals

(2)

(33,451)

(11,435)

(21,466)

Cash disbursed for construction in progress

301,604

306,832

492,897

Capital improvements to existing properties

77,781

59,923

38,389

Total cash invested in real property

$

4,905,122

$

2,074,176

$

598,959

(1)

Includes $318,608,000 relating to acquisitions of 12 medical
  facilities that closed in the fourth quarter of 2011.  The allocation of the
  purchase price consideration is preliminary and subject to change.

(2)

Represents non-cash accruals for amounts to be paid in future
  periods relating to properties that converted in the period noted above.

The following
is a summary of the construction projects that were placed into service and
began generating revenues during the periods presented

:


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2011

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2009

Development projects:

Seniors housing triple-net

$

114,161

$

273,034

$

550,504

Medical facilities

355,935

162,376

183,127

Total development projects

470,096

435,410

733,631

Expansion projects

45,414

3,216

4,288

Total construction in progress conversions

$

515,510

$

438,626

$

737,919

Transaction costs for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily
represent costs incurred with the Genesis acquisition and seniors housing
operating partnerships and medical facilities purchases (including due
diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation services, and termination of
pre-existing relationships computed based on the fair value of the assets
acquired), lease termination fees and costs incurred in connection with the new
property acquisitions.

At December 31, 2011, future minimum lease
payments receivable under operating leases (excluding properties in our seniors
housing operating partnerships and excluding any operating expense
reimbursements) are as follows (in thousands):


$

931,680


923,885


876,401


846,878


836,858

Thereafter

6,163,444

Totals

$

10,579,146

4. Real Estate Intangibles

The following
is a summary of our real estate intangibles, excluding those classified as held
for sale, as of the dates indicated (dollars in thousands):

December
  31, 2011

December
  31, 2010

Assets:

In place lease intangibles

$

332,645

$

182,030

Above market tenant leases

35,973

24,089

Below market ground leases

51,316

46,992

Lease commissions

8,265

4,968

Gross historical cost

428,199

258,079

Accumulated amortization

(148,380)

(49,145)

Net book value

$

279,819

$

208,934

Weighted-average amortization period in years

17.0

18.2

Liabilities:

Below market tenant leases

$

67,284

$

57,261

Above market ground leases

5,020

5,020

Gross historical cost

72,304

62,281

Accumulated amortization

(21,387)

(15,992)

Net book value

$

50,917

$

46,289

Weighted-average amortization period in years

12.3

14.0

The following is a summary of real estate intangible
amortization for the periods presented (in thousands):


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended December 31,




Rental income related to above/below market tenant leases, net

$

3,340

$

3,829

$

2,670

Property operating expenses related to above/below market ground
  leases, net

(1,161)

(1,049)

(1,052)

Depreciation and amortization related to in place lease
  intangibles and lease commissions

(98,856)

(18,298)

(9,722)

The future estimated aggregate amortization of intangible
assets and liabilities is as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):

Assets

Liabilities


$

85,656

$

6,108


34,209

5,549


17,136

5,169


14,897

4,330


17,801

4,129

Thereafter

110,120

25,632

Totals

$

279,819

$

50,917

5. Dispositions, Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations

During the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold


properties for net
gains of $43,394,000.  At December 31, 2009, we had two skilled nursing
facilities and eight medical facilities held for sale and recorded an
impairment charge of $25,223,000 to reduce the medical office buildings to
their estimated fair values less costs to sell.  In determining the fair value
of the held for sale properties, we used a combination of third party
appraisals based on market comparable transactions, other market listings and
asset quality as well as management calculations based on projected operating
income and published capitalization rates.  During the year ended December 31,
2010, we sold


properties,
including seven of the held for sale medical facilities, for net gains of $36,115,000. 
At December 31, 2010, we had one medical facility and 16 seniors housing
facilities that satisfied the requirements for held for sale treatment and such
properties were properly recorded at the lesser of their estimated fair values
less costs to sell or carrying values. During the year ended December 31, 2010,
we recorded an impairment charge of

$947,000

related to two of the held for sale medical
facilities to adjust the carrying values to estimated fair values less costs to
sell based on current sales price expectations.  During the year ended December
31, 2011, we sold 42 properties for net gains of $61,160,000.  At

December 31, 2011

, we had five medical facilities and
one seniors housing triple-net facility that satisfied the requirements for
held for sale treatment and such properties were properly recorded at the
lesser of their estimated fair values less costs to sell or carrying values. During
the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded an impairment charge of $12,194,000
related to certain held for sale properties to adjust the carrying values to
estimated fair values less costs to sell based on current sales price
expectations.  The following is a summary of our real property disposition
activity for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2011

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2009

Real property dispositions:

Seniors housing triple-net

$

150,755

$

170,290

$

101,155

Medical facilities

35,295

14,092

85,558

Total dispositions

186,050

184,382

186,713

Add: Gain (loss) on sales of real property

61,160

36,115

43,394

Seller financing on sales of real property

-

(1,470)

(6,100)

Proceeds from real property sales

$

247,210

$

219,027

$

224,007

We have reclassified the income
and expenses attributable to all properties sold prior to or held for sale at December
31, 2011 to discontinued operations.  Expenses include an allocation of
interest expense based on property carrying values and our weighted average
cost of debt.  The following illustrates the reclassification impact as a
result of classifying properties as discontinued operations for the periods
presented (in thousands):


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Rental income

$

16,134

$

45,219

$

65,296

Other income

-

-

8,059

Expenses:

Interest expense

3,604

9,664

12,916

Property operating expenses

4,394

7,172

6,464

Provision for depreciation

5,199

15,580

24,231

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

$

2,937

$

12,803

$

29,744

6.
Real Estate Loans Receivable

The
following is a summary of our real estate loans receivable (in thousands):

December
  31,



Mortgage loans

$

63,934

$

109,283

Other real estate loans

228,573

327,297

Totals

$

292,507

$

436,580

The following is a summary of our real estate loan activity
for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2011

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2009

Seniors

Seniors

Seniors

Housing

Medical

Housing

Medical

Housing

Medical

Triple-net

Facilities

Totals

Triple-net

Facilities

Totals

Triple-net

Facilities

Totals

Advances on real estate loans receivable:

Investments in new loans

$

18,541

$

-

$

18,541

$

9,742

$

41,644

$

51,386

$

20,036

$

-

$

20,036

Draws on existing loans

29,752

3,184

32,936

46,113

1,236

47,349

52,910

1,471

54,381

Sub-total

48,293

3,184

51,477

55,855

42,880

98,735

72,946

1,471

74,417

Less: Seller financing on property sales

-

-

-

-

(1,470)

(1,470)

-

-

-

Net cash advances on real estate loans

48,293

3,184

51,477

55,855

41,410

97,265

72,946

1,471

74,417

Receipts on real estate loans receivable:

Loan payoffs

162,705

2,943

165,648

5,619

6,233

11,852

61,659

32,197

93,856

Principal payments on loans

17,856

5,307

23,163

24,203

7,440

31,643

15,890

2,033

17,923

Total receipts on real estate loans

180,561

8,250

188,811

29,822

13,673

43,495

77,549

34,230

111,779

Net advances (receipts) on real estate loans

$

(132,268)

$

(5,066)

$

(137,334)

$

26,033

$

27,737

$

53,770

$

(4,603)

$

(32,759)

$

(37,362)


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following is a summary of the allowance for losses on loans
receivable for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Balance at beginning of  year

$

1,276

$

5,183

$

7,500

Provision for loan losses

2,010

29,684

23,261

Charge-offs

(3,286)

(33,591)

(25,578)

Balance at end of  year

$

-

$

1,276

$

5,183

As a result of our quarterly evaluations, we
recorded $2,010,000 of provision for loan losses during the year ended December
31, 2011. This amount includes the write-off of a loan in the amount of $3,286,000
related to a hospital in Texas.  This was offset by a net reduction of the
allowance balance by $1,276,000, resulting in an allowance for loan losses of
$0 relating to real estate loans with outstanding balances of $6,244,000, all
of which were on non-accrual status at December 31, 2011.

The following is a
summary of our loan impairments (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Balance of impaired loans at end of  year

$

6,244

$

9,691

$

67,126

Allowance for loan losses

-

1,276

5,183

Balance of impaired loans not reserved

$

6,244

$

8,415

$

61,943

Average impaired loans for the year

$

7,968

$

38,409

$

69,948

Interest recognized on impaired loans

(1)

-



(1) Represents interest recognized prior to
  placement on non-accrual status.

7. Investments in Unconsolidated Entities

During
the six months ended June 30, 2010, we entered into a joint venture investment
with Forest City Enterprises (NYSE:FCE.A and FCE.B).  We acquired a 49%
interest in a seven-building life science campus located in University Park in
Cambridge, MA, which is immediately adjacent to the campus of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. On February 22, 2010, six buildings were purchased and
the seventh was purchased on June 30, 2010.  The portfolio is 100% leased.  In
connection with these transactions, we invested $174,692,000 of cash which is
recorded as an investment in unconsolidated entities on the balance sheet.  Our
share of the non-recourse secured debt assumed by the joint venture was approximately
$

156,729,000

with
weighted-average interest rates of 7.1%.  The results of operations for these
properties have been included in our consolidated results of operations from
the date of acquisition by the joint venture and are reflected in our income
statement as income from unconsolidated entities.  The aggregate remaining
unamortized basis difference of our investment in this joint venture of $

6,379,000

at December 31,
2011 is primarily attributable to real estate and related intangible assets and
will be amortized over the life of the related properties and included in the
reported amount of income from unconsolidated entities.  In addition, at December
31, 2011, we had other investments in unconsolidated entities with our
ownership ranging from 10% to 50%.


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

8. Customer Concentration

The
following table summarizes certain information about our customer concentration
as of December 31, 2011 (dollars in thousands):

Number
  of

Total

Percent
  of

Concentration by investment:

(1)

Properties

Investment

(2)

Investment

(3)

Genesis HealthCare, LLC


$

2,466,243

18%

Merrill Gardens, LLC


1,132,399

8%

Benchmark Senior Living, LLC


883,681

6%

Brandywine Senior Living, LLC


719,509

5%

Senior Living Communities, LLC


604,079

4%

Remaining portfolio


8,136,439

59%

Totals


$

13,942,350

100%

_____________________

(1)

Merrill Gardens and Benchmark are
in our seniors housing operating segment whereas the other top five customers
are in our seniors housing triple-net segment.

(2)

Excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated
entities.  Please see Note 7 for additional information.

(3)

Investments with our top five customers comprised 32%
of total investments at December 31, 2010

.

9. Borrowings Under Line of Credit Arrangement and Related Items

At
December 31, 2011, we had a $2,000,000,000 unsecured line of credit arrangement
with a consortium of 31 banks with an option to upsize the facility by up to an
additional $500,000,000 through an accordion feature, allowing for an aggregate
commitment of up to $2,500,000,000.  The revolving credit facility is scheduled
to expire July 27, 2015.  Borrowings under the agreement are subject to
interest payable in periods

no longer than three months

at either the agent bank’s prime rate of interest
or the applicable margin over LIBOR interest rate, at our option (1.65% at December
31, 2011). The applicable margin is based on certain of our debt ratings and
was 1.35% at December 31, 2011. In addition, we pay a facility fee annually to
each bank based on the bank’s commitment amount. The facility fee depends on certain
of our debt ratings and was 0.25% at December 31, 2011.  Principal is due upon
expiration of the agreement.  In addition, at December 31, 2011, we had a
$5,000,000 unsecured revolving demand note outstanding and bearing interest at
1.34%.

The
following information relates to aggregate borrowings under the unsecured line
of credit arrangements for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Balance outstanding at year end

$

610,000

$

300,000

$

140,000

Maximum amount outstanding at any month end

$

710,000

$

560,000

$

559,000

Average amount outstanding (total of daily

principal balances divided by days in period)

$

240,104

$

268,762

$

241,463

Weighted average interest rate (actual interest

expense divided by average borrowings outstanding)

1.51%

1.48%

1.92%

10. Senior Unsecured Notes and Secured Debt

We have $4,434,107,000
of senior unsecured notes with annual stated interest rates ranging from 3.00% to
8.00%. The carrying amounts of the senior unsecured notes represent the par
value of $4,464,927,000 adjusted for any unamortized premiums or discounts and
other basis adjustments related to hedging the debt with derivative
instruments. See Note 11 for further discussion regarding derivative instruments.

During the
three months ended December 31, 2006, we issued $345,000,000 of
4.75% senior unsecured convertible notes due December 2026, generating net
proceeds of $337,517,000. The notes are convertible, in certain circumstances,
into cash and, if applicable, shares of common stock at an initial conversion
rate of 20.8833 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which
represents an initial conversion price of $47.89 per share. In general, upon
conversion, the holder of each note would receive, in respect of the conversion
value of such note, cash up to the principal amount of such note and common
stock for the note’s conversion value in excess of such principal amount. In
addition, on each of December 1, 2011, December 1, 2016 and
December 1, 2021, holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of
their notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount
of the notes to be purchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. During the
three months ended March 31, 2009, we extinguished


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

$5,000,000
of these notes and recognized a gain of $446,000.  During the six months ended June
30, 2010, we extinguished $214,412,000 of these notes, recognized a loss of $8,837,000
and paid $18,552,000 to reacquire the equity component of convertible debt.  During
the three months ended December 31, 2011, we purchased $3,000 of these notes
from holders.  As of December 31, 2011, we had $125,585,000 of these notes
outstanding.

In July 2007, we issued $400,000,000 of 4.75% senior
unsecured convertible notes due July 2027, generating net proceeds of
$388,943,000. The notes are convertible, in certain circumstances, into cash
and, if applicable, shares of our common stock at an initial conversion rate of
20.0000 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which represents an
initial conversion price of $50.00 per share. In general, upon conversion, the
holder of each note would receive, in respect of the conversion value of such
note, cash up to the principal amount of such note and common stock for the
note’s conversion value in excess of such principal amount. In addition, on
each of July 15, 2012, July 15, 2017 and July 15, 2022, holders
may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price
in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be purchased,
plus any accrued and unpaid interest. During the three months ended March 31,
2009, we extinguished $5,000,000 of these notes and recognized a gain of
$594,000.  During the six months ended June 30, 2010, we extinguished $226,914,000
of these notes, recognized a loss of $16,235,000 and paid $21,062,000 to
reacquire the equity component of convertible debt.  As of December 31, 2011,
we had $168,086,000 of these notes outstanding.

During the
twelve months ended December 31, 2010, we issued $494,403,000 of 3.00% senior
unsecured convertible notes due December 2029, generating net proceeds of $486,084,000.
The notes are convertible, in certain circumstances, into cash and, if
applicable, shares of common stock at an initial conversion rate of 19.5064 shares
per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which represents an initial conversion
price of $51.27 per share. In general, upon conversion, the holder of each note
would receive, in respect of the conversion value of such note, cash up to the
principal amount of such note and common stock for the note’s conversion value
in excess of such principal amount. In addition, on each of December 1,
2014, December 1, 2019 and December 1, 2024, holders may require us
to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price in cash equal
to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be purchased, plus any accrued
and unpaid interest. In connection with this issuance, we recognized $29,925,000
of equity component of convertible debt.

During the
year ended December 31, 2009, we extinguished $183,147,000 of senior unsecured
notes with a weighted-average interest rate of 7.82% and recognized losses of
$19,269,000.  During the three months ended June 30, 2010, we issued
$450,000,000 of 6.125% senior unsecured notes due 2020 with net proceeds of
$446,328,000.  During the three months ended September 30, 2010, we issued
$450,000,000 of 4.70% senior unsecured notes due 2017 with net proceeds of $445,768,000. 
During the three months ended December 31, 2010, we issued $450,000,000 of
4.95% senior unsecured notes due 2021 with net proceeds of $443,502,000.  During
the three months ended March 31, 2011, we issued $400,000,000 of 3.625% senior
unsecured notes due 2016, $600,000,000 of 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2022
and $400,000,000 of 6.50% senior unsecured notes due 2041, generating net
proceeds of $1,381,086,000.

We have
secured debt totaling $2,112,649,000, collateralized by owned properties, with
annual interest rates ranging from 1.22% to 10.00%. The carrying amounts of the
secured debt represent the par value of $2,108,384,000 adjusted for any
unamortized fair value adjustments.  The carrying values of the properties
securing the debt totaled $4,048,469,000 at December 31, 2011. During the year
ended December 31, 2009, we extinguished 20 secured debt loans totaling
$81,715,000 with a weighted-average interest rate of 7.21% and recognized
extinguishment losses of $5,838,000.  During the year ended December 31, 2010,
we issued $157,156,000 of first mortgage loans principal with a rate of 5.45%
secured by 15 properties.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, we assumed
$564,657,000 of first mortgage loans principal with an average rate of 6.06%
secured by 60 properties.  During the year ended December 31, 2010, we
extinguished $194,493,000 of first mortgage loans principal with an average
rate of 6.07% and recognized a loss of $9,099,000.  During the year ended
December 31, 2011, we issued $114,903,000 of first mortgage loans principal
with a rate of 5.78% secured by nine properties.  During the year ended
December 31, 2011, we assumed $940,855,000 of first mortgage loans principal
with an average rate of 4.85% secured by 55 properties.  During the year ended
December 31, 2011, we extinguished $55,317,000 of first mortgage loans
principal with an average rate of 5.95% and recognized a gain of $979,000.

We adopted
FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) topic for Accounting for
Convertible Debt Instruments that May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion
(Including Partial Cash Settlement) (“Convertible Debt Guidance”), effective
January 1, 2009. It provides guidance on accounting for convertible debt
that may be settled in cash upon conversion. It requires bifurcation of the
convertible debt instrument into a debt component and an equity component. The
value of the debt component is based upon the estimated fair value of a similar
debt instrument without the conversion feature. The difference between the contractual
principal on the debt and the value allocated to the debt is recorded as an
equity component and represents the conversion feature of the instrument. The
excess of the contractual principal amount of the debt over its estimated fair
value is amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over
the period used to estimate the fair value.

Our debt
agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default.
Certain agreements require us to maintain certain


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

financial
ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur
indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December
31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt
agreements.

At December 31, 2011, the annual principal
payments due on these debt obligations are as follows (in thousands):

Senior

Secured

Unsecured
  Notes

(1)

Debt

(1)

Totals


$

76,853

$

122,359

$

199,212


300,000

292,735

592,735


-

203,767

203,767


250,000

184,378

434,378


700,000

190,255

890,255

Thereafter

3,138,074

1,114,890

4,252,964

Totals

$

4,464,927

$

2,108,384

$

6,573,311

(1) Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not include
  unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected
  on the balance sheet.

11. Derivative Instruments

We are exposed to various market risks, including
the potential loss arising from adverse changes in interest rates. We may elect
to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions
are principally based on our policy to manage the general trend in interest
rates at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of
interest rates.  Derivatives are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet as
assets or liabilities.  The valuation of derivative instruments requires us to
make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. 
Fair values of our derivatives are estimated by pricing models that consider
the forward yield curves and discount rates.  Such amounts and the recognition
of such amounts are subject to significant estimates that may change in the
future.

For instruments that are designated and qualify
as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the
derivative is reported as a component of other comprehensive income (“OCI”),
and reclassified into earnings in the same period, or periods, during which the
hedged transaction affects earnings.  Gains and losses on the derivative
representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the
assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings.  Approximately $

2,016,000

of losses,
which are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”), are
expected to be reclassified into earnings in the next 12 months.

The following is a summary of the fair value of
our derivative instruments (dollars in thousands):

Balance
  Sheet

Fair
  Value

Location

December
  31, 2011

December
  31, 2010

Cash flow hedge interest rate swaps

Other liabilities

$

$
  2,854

$

$ 482

The following presents the impact of derivative instruments
on the statement of operations and OCI for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands):

Year
  Ended

Location

December
  31, 2011

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2009

Gain (loss) on interest rate swap recognized in

OCI (effective portion)

n/a

$

3,189

$

(10,307)

$

(3,513)

Gain (loss) reclassified from AOCI into

income (effective portion)

Interest expense

1,781

(2,244)

(971)

Gain (loss) recognized in income (ineffective portion

and amount excluded from effectiveness testing)

Realized loss

-

-

-

As of December 31, 2011, we
had eight interest rate swaps for a total aggregate notional amount of
$135,445,000.  The swaps hedge interest payments associated with long-term
LIBOR based borrowings and mature between December 31, 2012 and December 31,
2013.


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

12. Commitments and Contingencies

At
December 31, 2011, we had five outstanding letter of credit obligations
totaling $5,515,000 and expiring between 2012 and 2014.

At
December 31, 2011, we had outstanding construction in process of $189,502,000
for leased properties and were committed to providing additional funds of
approximately $282,899,000 to complete construction. At December 31, 2011, we
had contingent purchase obligations totaling $57,470,000. These contingent
purchase obligations relate to unfunded capital improvement obligations. Rents
due from the tenant are increased to reflect the additional investment in the
property.

We
evaluate our leases for operating versus capital lease treatment in accordance
with ASC Topic 840 “Leases.”  A lease is classified as a capital lease if
it provides for transfer of ownership of the leased asset at the end of the
lease term, contains a bargain purchase option, has a lease term greater than
75% of the economic life of the leased asset, or if the net present value of
the future minimum lease payments are in excess of 90% of the fair value of the
leased asset. Certain leases contain bargain purchase options and have been
classified as capital leases.  At December 31, 2011, we had operating lease
obligations of $356,464,000 relating to certain ground leases and company
office space. We incurred rental expense relating to company office space of

$1,901,000

, $1,280,000 and

$1,138,000

for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Regarding the ground
leases, we have sublease agreements with certain of our operators that require
the operators to reimburse us for our monthly operating lease obligations. At December
31, 2011, aggregate future minimum rentals to be received under these noncancelable
subleases totaled $29,558,000.

At December 31, 2011, future minimum lease payments due under
operating and capital leases are as follows (in thousands):

Operating
  Leases

Capital
  Leases

(1)


$

6,166

$

7,622


6,442

73,003


6,502



6,016

8,425


6,002

-

Thereafter

325,336

-

Totals

$

356,464

$

89,710

(1) Amounts above represent principal and interest obligations
  under capital lease arrangements.  Related assets with a gross value of
  $345,815,000 and accumulated depreciation of $7,024,000 recorded in real
  property.

13.
Stockholders’ Equity

The following is a summary of our stockholder’s equity
capital accounts as of the dates indicated:

December
  31, 2011

December
  31, 2010

Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value:

Authorized shares

50,000,000

50,000,000

Issued shares

25,724,854

11,349,854

Outstanding shares

25,724,854

11,349,854

Common Stock, $1.00 par value:

Authorized shares

400,000,000

225,000,000

Issued shares

192,604,918

147,381,191

Outstanding shares

192,275,248

147,097,381

Preferred
Stock.

During the year ended 2009, certain holders of our Series G
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock converted

41,600

shares into 29,771 shares of our common stock,
leaving

399,713

of
such shares outstanding at December 31, 2009.  During the nine months ended September
30, 2010, certain holders of our Series G Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock converted 394,200 shares into

282,078

shares of our common stock, leaving 5,513 of
such shares outstanding, which were redeemed by us on September 30, 2010. 
During the three months ended September 30, 2010, the holder of our Series E
Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock converted

74,380

shares into
56,935 shares of our common stock, leaving no shares outstanding at December
31, 2011.


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In July 2003, we closed a public
offering of

4,000,000

shares of 7.875% Series D Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per
share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred stock, which
has no stated maturity, are redeemable by us at a redemption price of

$25.00

per share, plus
accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption date, effective July 9,
2008.

In
September 2004, we closed a public offering of 7,000,000 shares of

7.625%

Series F
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation value of
$25.00 per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. The preferred
stock, which has no stated maturity, are redeemable by us at a redemption price
of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the
redemption date, effective September 14, 2009.

During
the three months ended December 31, 2010, we issued

349,854

shares of 6.00% Series H Cumulative Convertible and
Redeemable Preferred Stock in connection with a business combination.  These
shares have a liquidation value of

$25.00

per share. Dividends are payable quarterly in
arrears. The preferred stock, which has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by
us at a redemption price of $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends
on such shares to the redemption date, on or after December 31, 2015.  See Note
3 for additional information.

During
the three months ended March 31, 2011, we issued 14,375,000 of

6.50%

Series I Cumulative
Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock.  These shares have a liquidation value
of $50.00 per share.  Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears.  The
preferred stock is not redeemable by us.  The preferred shares are convertible,
at the holder’s option, into

0.8460

shares of common stock (equal to an initial
conversion price of approximately $59.10).

Common Stock.

The following is a summary of our common stock issuances
during the periods indicated (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):

Shares
  Issued

Average
  Price

Gross
  Proceeds

Net
  Proceeds

February 2009 public issuance

5,816,870

$

36.85

$

214,352

$

210,880

September 2009 public issuance

9,200,000

40.40

371,680

356,554

2009 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

1,499,497

37.22

55,818

55,818

2009 Equity shelf program issuances

1,952,600

40.69

79,447

77,605

2009 Option exercises

96,166

38.23

3,676

3,676

2009 Totals

18,565,133

$

724,973

$

704,533

September 2010 public issuance

9,200,000

$

45.75

$

420,900

$

403,921

December 2010 public issuance

11,500,000

43.75

503,125

482,448

2010 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

1,957,364

43.95

86,034

86,034

2010 Equity shelf program issuances

431,082

44.94

19,371

19,013

2010 Option exercises

129,054

31.17

4,022

4,022

2010 Totals

23,217,500

$

1,033,452

$

995,438

March 2011 public issuance

28,750,000

$

49.25

$

1,415,938

$

1,358,543

November 2011 public issuance

12,650,000

50.00

632,500

606,595

2011 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

2,534,707

48.44

122,794

121,846

2011 Equity shelf program issuances

848,620

50.53

42,888

41,982

2011 Option exercises

232,081

37.17

8,628

8,628

2011 Totals

45,015,408

$

2,222,748

$

2,137,594


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Dividends

.

The following is a summary of our dividend payments (dollars
in thousands, except per share amounts)

:

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2011

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2009

Per
  Share

Amount

Per
  Share

Amount

Per
  Share

Amount

Common Stock

$

2.83500

$

483,746

$

2.74000

$

348,578

$

2.72000

$

311,760

Series D Preferred Stock

1.96875

7,875

1.96875

7,875

1.96875

7,875

Series E Preferred Stock

-

-

1.12500


1.50000


Series F Preferred Stock

1.90625

13,344

1.90625

13,344

1.90625

13,344

Series G Preferred Stock

-

-

1.40640


1.87500


Series H Preferred Stock

2.85840

1,000

-

-

-

-

Series I Preferred Stock

1.33159

38,283

-

-

-

-

Totals

$

544,248

$

370,223

$

333,839

Comprehensive Income

The following
is a summary of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) as of the dates
indicated (in thousands):

December
  31, 2011

December
  31, 2010

Unrecognized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges

$

(8,561)

$

(9,969)

Unrecognized gains (losses) on equity investments

(619)

(497)

Unrecognized actuarial gains (losses)

(2,748)

(633)

Totals

$

(11,928)

$

(11,099)

The following is a summary of
comprehensive income/(loss) for the periods indicated (in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31,




Unrecognized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges

$

1,408

$

(8,063)

$

(2,542)

Unrecognized gains (losses) on equity investments

(122)



Unrecognized actuarial gains (losses)

(2,115)

(199)


Total other comprehensive income (loss)

(829)

(8,208)

(1,778)

Net income attributable to controlling interests

217,610

128,527

193,269

Comprehensive income attributable to controlling interests

216,781

120,319

191,491

Net and comprehensive income (loss) attributable to
  noncontrolling interests

(1)

(4,894)


(342)

Total comprehensive income

$

211,887

$

120,676

$

191,149

(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling
  interests.

Other Equity

Other
equity consists of accumulated option compensation expense, which represents
the amount of amortized compensation costs related to stock options awarded to
employees and directors. Expense, which is recognized as the options vest based
on the market value at the date of the award, totaled $1,917,000, $1,634,000
and $1,629,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

14. Stock Incentive Plans

Our
Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan authorizes up to

6,200,000

shares of
common stock to be issued at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors. The 2005 Plan replaced the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan
and the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors. The options granted to officers
and key employees under the 1995 Plan vested through 2010 and expire ten years from
the date of grant. Our non-employee directors, officers and key employees are
eligible to participate in the 2005 Plan. The 2005 Plan allows for the issuance
of, among other things, stock options, restricted stock, deferred stock units
and dividend equivalent rights. Vesting periods for options, deferred stock
units and restricted shares generally range from

three
years

for


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

non-employee
directors to five years for officers and key employees. Options expire

ten years

from the date
of grant.

Valuation Assumptions

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date
of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions:

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2011

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2009

Dividend yield

5.74%

6.28%

7.35%

Expected volatility

34.80%

34.08%

29.40%

Risk-free interest rate

2.87%

3.23%

2.33%

Expected life (in years)

7.0

7.0

7.0

Weighted-average fair value

$9.60

$7.82

$4.38

The dividend yield represented the
dividend yield of our common stock on the dates of grant. Our computation of
expected volatility was based on historical volatility. The risk-free interest
rates used were the 7-year U.S. Treasury Notes yield on the date of grant. The
expected life was based on historical experience of similar awards, giving
consideration to the contractual terms, vesting schedules and expectations
regarding future employee behavior.

Option Award Activity

The following table summarizes information about stock option
activity for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011:

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2011

December
  31, 2010

December
  31, 2009

Number
  of

Weighted

Number
  of

Weighted

Number
  of

Weighted

Shares

Average

Shares

Average

Shares

Average

Stock Options

(000's)

Exercise
  Price

(000's)

Exercise
  Price

(000's)

Exercise
  Price

Options at beginning of year

1,207

$

39.45

1,062

$

37.71


$

38.29

Options granted


49.17


43.29


37.00

Options exercised

(232)

36.92

(129)

33.58

(96)

38.22

Options terminated

(12)

43.09

(6)

37.82

(25)

44.50

Options at end of period

1,252

$

42.12

1,207

$

39.45

1,062

$

37.71

Options exercisable at end of period


$

39.45


$

37.76


$

35.85

Weighted average fair value of

options granted during the period

$

9.60

$

7.82

$

4.38

The following table summarizes information about stock options
outstanding at December 31, 2011:

Options
  Outstanding

Options
  Exercisable

Number

Weighted

Weighted
  Average

Number

Weighted

Weighted
  Average

Outstanding

Average

Remaining

Exercisable

Average

Remaining

Range of Per Share Exercise Prices

(thousands)

Exercise
  Price

Contract
  Life

(thousands)

Exercise
  Price

Contract
  Life

$20-$30


$

25.82

1.0


$

25.82

1.0

$30-$40


36.75

5.9


36.46

4.5

$40+


44.99

7.5


42.96

6.1

Totals

1,252

$

42.12

6.9


$

39.45

5.2

Aggregate intrinsic value

$

15,528,000

$

6,439,000

The aggregate intrinsic value is
calculated as the difference between the exercise price of the underlying
options and the quoted price of our common stock for the options that were in-the-money
at December 31, 2011.  During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
the aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised under our stock incentive
plans was $3,390,000, $1,798,000 and $737,000,


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

respectively
(determined as of the date of option exercise).  Cash received from option
exercises under our stock incentive plans was $8,628,000, $4,022,000 and $3,676,000
for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

As of December 31, 2011, there was approximately $4,419,000
of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options
granted under our stock incentive plans.  That cost is expected to be
recognized over a weighted average period of 4 years.  As of December 31, 2011,
there was approximately $14,410,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost
related to unvested restricted stock granted under our stock incentive plans. 
That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 3
years.

The following table summarizes
information about non-vested stock incentive awards as of December 31, 2011 and
changes for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011:

Stock Options

Restricted Stock

Number of

Weighted Average

Number of

Weighted Average

Shares

Grant Date

Shares

Grant Date

(000's)

Fair Value

(000's)

Fair Value

Non-vested at December 31, 2010


$

6.19


$

41.09

Vested

(219)

6.12

(148)

41.90

Granted


9.60


49.20

Terminated

(13)

6.40

(9)

32.86

Non-vested at December 31, 2011


$

7.40


$

44.91

We use the
Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to estimate the value of stock option
grants and expect to continue to use this acceptable option valuation model. We
recognize compensation cost for share-based grants on a straight-line basis
through the date the awards become fully vested or to the retirement eligible
date, if sooner. Compensation cost totaled

$10,786,000

, $11,823,000 and

$9,633,000

for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively.

15. Earnings Per Share

The
following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per
share (in thousands, except per share data):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Numerator for basic and diluted earnings

per share - net income attributable to

common stockholders

$

157,108

$

106,882

$

171,190

Denominator for basic earnings per

share - weighted average shares

173,741

127,656

114,207

Effect of dilutive securities:

Employee stock options



-

Non-vested restricted shares




Convertible senior unsecured notes



-

Dilutive potential common shares




Denominator for diluted earnings per

share - adjusted weighted average shares

174,401

128,208

114,612

Basic earnings per share

$

0.90

$

0.84

$

1.50

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.90

$

0.83

$

1.49

The diluted
earnings per share calculations exclude the dilutive effect of


, 280,000 and

351,000

stock options for
the years

ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, because the exercise prices were more than
the average market price. The outstanding convertible senior unsecured notes
were not included in the 2009 calculations as the effect of the conversions
into common stock was anti-dilutive for that period.  The Series H Cumulative
Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock issued in 2010 was excluded from the
calculations for 2010 and 2011 as the effect of the conversions was
anti-dilutive.  The Series I


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Cumulative Convertible
Perpetual Preferred Stock issued in 2011 was excluded from the calculations for
2011 as the effect of the conversions was anti-dilutive.

16. Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The following methods and
assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial
instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value.

Mortgage Loans and Other Real Estate Loans Receivable

— The fair value of mortgage
loans and other real estate loans receivable is generally estimated by
discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which
similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for
the same remaining maturities.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

— The carrying amount
approximates fair value.

Available-for-sale Equity Investments

— Available-for-sale equity investments
are recorded at their fair value based on publicly available trading prices.

Borrowings Under Unsecured Lines of Credit Arrangements

— The carrying amount of the
unsecured line of credit arrangement approximates fair value because the
borrowings are interest rate adjustable.

Senior Unsecured Notes

— The fair value of the senior unsecured notes
payable was estimated based on publicly available trading prices.

Secured Debt

— The fair value of fixed rate secured debt is estimated
by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which
similar loans would be made with similar credit ratings and for the same
remaining maturities.  The carrying amount of variable rate secured debt
approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable.

Interest Rate Swap Agreements

— Interest rate swap agreements are
recorded as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet at fair market value. 
Fair market value is estimated by utilizing pricing models that consider
forward yield curves and discount rates.

The
carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments are as
follows (in thousands):

December 31, 2011

December 31, 2010

Carrying

Fair

Carrying

Fair

Amount

Value

Amount

Value

Financial Assets:

Mortgage loans receivable

$

63,934

$

64,194

$

109,283

$

111,255

Other real estate loans receivable

228,573

231,308

327,297

333,003

Available-for-sale equity investments



1,103

1,103

Cash and cash equivalents

163,482

163,482

131,570

131,570

Financial Liabilities:

Borrowings under unsecured lines of credit
  arrangements

$

610,000

$

610,000

$

300,000

$

300,000

Senior unsecured notes

4,434,107

4,709,736

3,034,949

3,267,638

Secured debt

2,112,649

2,297,278

1,125,906

1,178,081

Interest rate swap agreements

2,854

2,854



U.S. GAAP provides authoritative
guidance for measuring and disclosing fair value measurements of assets and
liabilities.  The guidance defines fair value as the exchange price that would
be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the
principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants on the measurement date.  The guidance
also establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires an entity to maximize
the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when
measuring fair value.  The guidance describes three levels of inputs that may
be used to measure fair value:

Level
1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Level
2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for
similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or
other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market
data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.  Interest
rate swap agreements are valued using models that assume a hypothetical
transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability in the principal market
for the asset or liability based on market data derived from interest rates and
yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals, volatilities, prepayment
timing, loss severities, credit risks and default rates.

Level
3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and
that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.

Items Measured at Fair Value on a
Recurring Basis

The market approach is utilized
to measure fair value for our financial assets and liabilities reported at fair
value on a recurring basis.  The market approach uses prices and other relevant
information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable
assets or liabilities.

Fair Value Measurements as of December 31, 2011

Total

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Available-for-sale equity investments

(1)

$


$


$

-

$

-

Assets held for sale

(2)

36,115

-

36,115

-

Interest rate swap agreements

(3)

(2,854)

-

(2,854)

-

Totals

$

34,241

$


$

33,261

$

-

(1) Unrealized gains or losses on equity
  investments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at
  each measurement date.

(2) Please see Note 5 for additional
  information.

(3) Please see Note 11 for additional
  information.

Items
Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis

In addition to
items that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, we also have assets
and liabilities in our balance sheet that are measured at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis.  As these assets and liabilities are not measured at fair
value on a recurring basis, they are not included in the tables above. Assets
and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include
assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations (see Note 3)
and asset impairments (see Note 5 for impairments of real property and Note 6
for impairments of loans receivable). We have determined that the fair value
measurements included in each of these assets and liabilities rely primarily on
Company-specific inputs and our assumptions about the use of the assets and
settlement of liabilities, as observable inputs are not available. As such, we have
determined that each of these fair value measurements generally reside within
Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. We estimate the fair value of real
estate and related intangibles using the income approach and unobservable data
such as net operating income and estimated capitalization and discount rates. 
We also consider local and national industry market data including comparable
sales, and commonly engage an external real estate appraiser to assist us in
our estimation of fair value.  We estimate the fair value of secured debt
assumed in business combinations using current interest rates at which similar
borrowings could be obtained on the transaction date.

17. Segment Reporting

During
the year ended December 31, 2011, we changed the name of our seniors housing
and care segment to seniors housing triple-net. Additionally, we added a new
seniors housing operating segment. There was no activity related to this
segment prior to September 1, 2010. We invest in seniors housing and health
care real estate. We evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our
three business segments: seniors housing triple-net, seniors housing operating
and medical facilities. Our seniors housing triple-net properties include
skilled nursing/post-acute facilities, assisted living facilities, independent living/continuing
care retirement communities and combinations thereof. Under the seniors housing
triple-net segment, we invest in seniors housing and health care real estate
through acquisition and financing of primarily single tenant properties. Properties
acquired are primarily leased under triple-net leases and we are not involved
in the management of the property. Our seniors housing operating properties
include assisted living facilities and independent living/continuing care
retirement communities that are owned and/or operated through RIDEA partnership
structures. Our primary medical facility properties include medical office
buildings, hospitals and life science buildings. Our medical office buildings
are typically leased to multiple tenants and generally require a certain level
of property management. Our hospital


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

investments are
structured similar to our seniors housing triple-net investments. Our life
science investments represent investments in an unconsolidated entity (see Note
7 for additional information).  The accounting policies of the segments are the
same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (in
Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements). There are no
intersegment sales or transfers. We evaluate performance based upon net
operating income of the combined properties in each segment. Non-segment
revenue consists mainly of interest income on non-real estate investments and
other income. Non-segment assets consist of corporate assets including cash, deferred
loan expenses and corporate offices and equipment among others. Non-property
specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual segments in
determining net operating income.

Summary
information for the reportable segments during the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009 is as follows (in thousands and includes amounts from
discontinued operations):

Property

Net

Real
  Estate

Rental

Resident
  Fees

Interest

Other

Total

Operating

Operating

Depreciation/

Interest

Total

Income

and
  Services

Income

Income

Revenues

Expenses

Income

(1)

Amortization

Expense

Assets

Year Ended December 31, 2011

Seniors housing triple-net

$

622,330

$

-

$

34,068

$

6,620

$

663,018

$

-

$

663,018

$

178,321

$

15,306

$

7,823,953

Seniors housing operating

-

456,085

-

-

456,085

314,142

141,943

138,192

46,342

3,041,238

Medical facilities

(2)

306,516

-

7,002

3,985

317,503

69,728

247,775

107,092

31,467

3,795,940

Non-segment/Corporate

-

-

-



-


-

228,884

263,475

$

928,846

$

456,085

$

41,070

$

11,295

$

1,437,296

$

383,870

$

1,053,426

$

423,605

$

321,999

$

14,924,606

Year Ended December 31, 2010

Seniors housing triple-net

$

382,904

$

-

$

36,176

$

3,386

$

422,466

$

-

$

422,466

$

111,213

$

15,111

$

4,756,896

Seniors housing operating

-

51,006

-

-

51,006

32,621

18,385

15,504

7,794

1,080,416

Medical facilities

(2)

220,506

-

4,679


226,170

53,844

172,326

75,826

24,926

3,389,441

Non-segment/Corporate

-

-

-

2,874

2,874

-

2,874

-

113,129

224,981

$

603,410

$

51,006

$

40,855

$

7,245

$

702,516

$

86,465

$

616,051

$

202,543

$

160,960

$

9,451,734

Year Ended December 31, 2009

Seniors housing triple-net

$

358,109

$

-

$

35,945

$

5,309

$

399,363

$

-

$

399,363

$

101,300

$

12,622

Medical facilities

181,802

-

4,940

9,368

196,110

48,965

147,145

63,623

20,584

Non-segment/Corporate

-

-

-

1,170

1,170

-

1,170

-

76,567

$

539,911

$

-

$

40,885

$

15,847

$

596,643

$

48,965

$

547,678

$

164,923

$

109,773

______________________________________________

(1)

Net operating
income (“NOI”) is used to evaluate the operating performance of our properties.
We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property
level operating expenses, which exclude depreciation and amortization, general
and administrative expenses, impairments and interest expense. We believe NOI
provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the
operating performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged
basis. We use NOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess
the property level performance of our properties.

(2)

Excludes income and
expense amounts related to our properties held in unconsolidated entities. 
Please see Note 7 for additional information

.

18.

Income Taxes
and Distributions

To qualify as a real estate investment trust
for federal income tax purposes, at least 90% of taxable income (excluding 100%
of net capital gains) must be distributed to stockholders. We distributed at
least 100% of taxable income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009.  Real estate investment trusts that do not distribute a certain amount of
current year taxable income in the current year are also subject to a

4%

federal excise tax.
The main differences between undistributed net income for federal income tax
purposes and financial statement purposes are the recognition of straight-line
rent for reporting purposes, basis differences in acquisitions, differing
useful lives and depreciation and amortization methods for real property and
the provision for loan losses for reporting purposes versus bad debt expense
for tax purposes.

Cash distributions paid to common
stockholders, for federal income tax purposes, are as follows:

Year
  Ended December 31,




Per Share:

Ordinary income

$

1.1472

$

0.7774

$

1.9865

Return of capital

1.4227

1.7408

0.4864

Long-term capital gains

0.1059

0.0190

-

1250 gains

0.1592

0.2028

0.2471

Totals

$

2.8350

$

2.7400

$

2.7200

At December 31, 2011, we had
U.S. federal tax losses from our taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRS”) of $7,400,000,
as well as apportioned state tax losses of $14,240,000 available for
carryforward. Valuation allowances have been established for these assets based
upon our assessment, as it is more likely than not that such assets may not be
realized. During the year ended December 31,


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

2011, the
federal tax valuation allowance declined by $10,306,000 due to current year
utilization of net operating losses.  The U.S. federal and state tax loss
carryforwards expire from 2012 through 2031.

Tax expense reflected in the financial
statements primarily represents federal, state and local income taxes as well
as amounts related to uncertain tax positions as discussed below.  As a result
of certain acquisitions, we are subject to corporate level taxes for related asset
dispositions for the period December 31, 2011 through December 31, 2021
(“built-in gains tax”). The amount of income potentially subject to this
special corporate level tax is generally equal to (a) the excess of the fair
value of the asset as of December 31, 2011 over its adjusted tax basis as of December
31, 2011, or (b) the actual amount of gain, whichever of (a) and (b) is lower.
Some but not all gains recognized during this period of time could be offset by
available net operating losses and capital loss carryforwards. We have not
recorded a deferred tax liability as a result of the potential built-in gains
tax based on our intentions with respect to such properties and available tax
planning strategies.

Under the provisions of the REIT Investment
Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 (“RIDEA”), for taxable years
beginning after July 30, 2008, the REIT may lease “qualified health care
properties” on an arm’s-length basis to a TRS if the property is operated on
behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an “eligible independent
contractor.” Generally, the rent received from the TRS will meet the related
party rent exception and will be treated as “rents from real property.” A
“qualified health care property” includes real property and any personal
property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital,
nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility, qualified
continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends medical or
nursing or ancillary services to patients.

Through December 31, 2011, we entered into five
joint ventures that were structured under RIDEA.  Resident level rents and
related operating expenses for these facilities are reported in the
consolidated financial statements and are subject to federal taxes as the
operations of such facilities are included in a TRS.  Certain net operating
loss carryforwards could be utilized to offset taxable income in future years.

We apply the rules under ASC 740-10 in our
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes for uncertain tax positions using a
“more likely than not” recognition threshold for tax positions. Pursuant to
these rules, we will initially recognize the financial statement effects of a
tax position when it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits of
the tax position, that such a position will be sustained upon examination by
the relevant tax authorities. If the tax benefit meets the “more likely than
not” threshold, the measurement of the tax benefit will be based on our
estimate of the ultimate tax benefit to be sustained if audited by the taxing
authority.

The entire balance of unrecognized tax
benefits as of December 31, 2011 of $6,098,000 (exclusive of accrued interest
and penalties) relates to the April 1, 2011 Genesis Acquisition discussed in
further detail in Note 3 and is included in Accrued expenses and other
liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet.  As a part of the Genesis
Acquisition, we received a full indemnification from FC-GEN Operations
Investment, LLC covering income taxes or other taxes as well as  interest and
penalties relating to tax positions taken by FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC
prior to the acquisition.  Accordingly, an offsetting indemnification asset is
recorded in receivables and other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
Such indemnification asset is reviewed for collectability periodically.

There were $149,000 of uncertain tax
positions as of December 31, 2011 for which it is reasonably possible that the
amount of unrecognized tax benefits would decrease during 2012.  Interest and
penalties totaled $

582,000

in expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 and were recorded as income tax
expense in the consolidated statements of income with an offsetting amount
recorded in other income relating to the increase in the indemnification asset.
As of December 31, 2011, $2,738,000 of interest and penalties were accrued
related to income taxes.

19. Retirement
Arrangements

Under the retirement plan and trust (the “401(k)
Plan”), eligible employees may make contributions, and we may make matching
contributions and a profit sharing contribution. Our contributions to the
401(k) Plan totaled

$1,558,000

, $1,341,000 and

$1,201,000

in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

We have a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
(“SERP”), a non-qualified defined benefit pension plan, which provides one
executive officer with supplemental deferred retirement benefits. The SERP
provides an opportunity for the participant to receive retirement benefits that
cannot be paid under our tax-qualified plans because of the restrictions
imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Benefits
are based on compensation and length of service and the SERP is unfunded.
Benefit payments are expected to total $2,375,000 during the next five fiscal
years and

$3,560,000

thereafter. We use a December 31 measurement date for the SERP. The accrued
liability on our balance sheet for the SERP was $5,623,000 at December 31, 2011
($4,066,000 at December 31, 2010).


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following tables
provide a reconciliation of the changes in the SERP’s benefit obligations for
the periods indicated (in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,



Reconciliation of benefit obligation:

Obligation at January 1

$

4,066

$

3,287

Service cost



Interest cost



Actuarial (gain) loss

2,303


Settlements

(1,347)

-

Obligation at December 31

$

5,623

$

4,066

We contributed $1,347,000 to
the plan in connection with a settlement during the year ended December 31,
2011.  The following table shows the components of net periodic benefit costs for
the periods indicated (in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,



Service cost

$


$


Interest cost



Net actuarial (gain) loss



Net periodic benefit cost

$


$


The following table provides information for the SERP,
which has an accumulated benefit in excess of plan assets (in thousands):

December
  31,



Projected benefit obligation

$

5,623

$

4,066

Accumulated benefit obligation

3,307

2,938

Fair value of assets

n/a

n/a

The following table reflects
the weighted-average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and
net periodic benefit cost for the SERP:

Benefit
  Obligations

Net
  Periodic Benefit Cost

December
  31,

Year
  Ended December 31,





Discount rate

2.75%

3.50%

3.50%

3.50%

Rate of compensation increase

4.50%

4.50%

4.50%

4.50%

Expected long-term return on plan assets

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

20.
Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)

The following is a summary
of our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands, except per share data). The sum
of individual quarterly amounts may not agree to the annual amounts included in
the consolidated statements of income due to rounding.

Year
  Ended December 31, 2011

1st
  Quarter

2nd
  Quarter

3rd
  Quarter

(2)

4th
  Quarter

(3)

Revenues - as reported

$

255,477

$

381,059

$

384,786

$

407,391

Discontinued operations

(4,157)

(1,675)

(1,723)

-

Revenues - as adjusted

(1)

$

251,320

$

379,384

$

383,063

$

407,391

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

23,372

$

69,847

$

36,607

$

27,282

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share:

Basic

$

0.15

$

0.40

$

0.21

$

0.15

Diluted

0.15

0.39

0.21

0.15

Year
  Ended December 31, 2010

1st
  Quarter

2nd
  Quarter

3rd
  Quarter

(4)

4th
  Quarter

Revenues - as reported

$

152,759

$

163,131

$

176,146

$

202,456

Discontinued operations

(11,361)

(10,992)

(8,809)

(6,033)

Revenues - as adjusted

(1)

$

141,398

$

152,139

$

167,337

$

196,423

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

25,812

$

45,646

$

(4,563)

$

39,988

Net income attributable to common stockholders per share:

Basic

$

0.21

$

0.37

$

(0.04)

$

0.29

Diluted

0.21

0.37

(0.04)

0.29

(1) We have reclassified the income attributable to the
  properties sold prior to or held for sale at December 31, 2011 to
  discontinued operations. See Note 5.

(2) The decreases in net income and amounts per share are
  primarily attributable to gains on sales of real estate totaling $30,224,000
  for the second quarter as compared to $185,000 for the third quarter.

(3) The decreases in net income and amounts per share are
  primarily attributable to impairment charges of $11,992,000.

(4) The decreases in net income and amounts per share are
  primarily attributable to provisions for loan losses ($28,918,000) and
  transaction costs ($18,835,000).

21. Subsequent Events

Chartwell

.  On February 15, 2012, the company
announced it will partner with Chartwell Seniors Housing Real Estate Investment
Trust to own and operate a portfolio of 42 seniors housing and care communities
located in Canada. The portfolio is being acquired for $925 million.  This transaction
will be structured under RIDEA with 39 facilities owned 50% by us and 50% by Chartwell,
and three facilities wholly owned by us.  Our $503 million investment will be
through a combination of cash and the pro rata assumption of secured debt.  Chartwell
will provide management services to the communities under an incentive-based
management contract.


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Item 9.

Changes in
and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and

Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

An evaluation was carried
out under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of
the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered
by this report.

Management’s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management is responsible
for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended). The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
The Company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies
and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Management has assessed the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2011 based on the criteria established by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission in a report entitled Internal
Control — Integrated Framework.  Based on this assessment, using the
criteria above, management concluded that the Company’s system of internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011.

The independent registered
public accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP, as auditors of the
Company’s consolidated financial statements, has issued an attestation report
on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

No change in our internal
control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) occurred during the fourth quarter
of the one-year period covered by this report that materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.


HEALTH

CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Health Care REIT,
Inc.

We have audited Health Care
REIT, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011,
based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(the COSO criteria). Health Care REIT, Inc.’s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

A company’s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

In our opinion, Health Care REIT, Inc. maintained, in
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated balance sheets of Health Care REIT, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and
2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, equity, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 and our
report dated February 17, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/

Ernst & Young LLP

Toledo, Ohio

February 17, 2012

Item 9B.

Other Information

None.


PART III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and
Corporate Governance

The information required by
this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the
headings “Election of Directors,” “Executive Officers,” “Board and Committees,”
“Communications with the Board” and “Security Ownership of Directors and
Management and Certain Beneficial Owners — Section 16(a) Compliance”
in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“Commission”) prior to April 30, 2012.

We have adopted a Code of
Business Conduct & Ethics that applies to our directors, officers and
employees. The code is posted on the Internet at www.hcreit.com. Any amendment
to, or waivers from, the code that relate to any officer or director of the
Company will be promptly disclosed on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.

In addition, the Board has
adopted charters for the Audit, Compensation and Nominating/Corporate
Governance Committees. These charters are posted on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by
this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the
headings “Executive Compensation,” “Compensation Committee Report” and
“Director Compensation” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed
with the Commission prior to April 30, 2012.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management

and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by
this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the
headings “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain Beneficial
Owners” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in our definitive proxy
statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 30, 2012.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions and Director

Independence

The information required by
this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under the
headings “Board and Committees — Independence and Meetings” and “Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions” in our definitive proxy statement,
which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 30, 2012.

Item 14.

Principal
Accounting Fees and Services

The information required by this Item is incorporated
herein by reference to the information under the headings “Ratification of the
Appointment of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” and
“Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures” in our definitive proxy statement, which
will be filed with the Commission prior to April 30, 2012.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a) 1.

Our Consolidated Financial Statements are included in
Part II,

Item 8:

2.

The following Financial Statement Schedules are
included in

Item 15(c):

III
– Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

IV
– Mortgage Loans on Real Estate

3.

Exhibit
Index:

The information
required by this item is set forth on the Exhibit Index that follows the
Financial Statement Schedules to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(b)

Exhibits:

The exhibits
listed on the Exhibit Index are either filed with this Form 10-K or
incorporated by reference in accordance with Rule 12b-32 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.

(c)

Financial Statement
Schedules:

Financial statement schedules are included
on pages 106 through 120.


Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

By:

/s/

George L. Chapman

Chairman,
Chief Executive Officer, President and Director

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below on February 17, 2012, by the following person on behalf of
the Company and in the capacities indicated.


Health Care REIT, Inc.

Schedule
  III

Real
  Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December
  31, 2011

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Year
  Acquired

Year
  Built

Seniors housing triple-net:

Aboite Twp, IN

$

-

$

1,770

$

19,930

$


$

1,770

$

20,765

$




Agawam, MA

-


16,112

2,134


18,246

4,690



Agawam, MA

-

1,230

13,618

-

1,230

13,618




Agawam, MA

-


15,304

-


15,304




Agawam, MA

-


10,661

-


10,661




Agawam, MA

-


10,562

-


10,562




Akron, OH

-


8,219



8,710

1,559



Akron, OH

-


7,535



7,719

1,195



Alexandria, VA

-

1,330

7,820

-

1,330

7,820




Alliance, OH

4,482


7,723



7,830

1,311



Amarillo, TX

-


7,260

-


7,260

1,383



Amelia Island, FL

-

3,290

24,310

19,131

3,290

43,441

5,335



Ames, IA

-


8,871

-


8,870




Anderson, SC

-


6,290



6,709

1,675



Andover, MA

-

1,310

12,647

-

1,310

12,647




Annapolis, MD

-

1,010

24,825

-

1,010

24,825




Ansted, WV

-


14,113

-


14,113




Asheboro, NC

-


5,032



5,197

1,194



Asheville, NC

-


3,489

-


3,489

1,295



Asheville, NC

-


1,955



2,306




Aspen Hill, MD

-

-

9,008

-

-

9,008




Atlanta, GA

-


5,540



5,730

1,156



Auburndale, FL

-


5,950



6,254

1,179



Aurora, CO

-

2,600

5,906

7,915

2,600

13,821

2,341



Aurora, CO

-

2,440

28,172

-

2,440

28,172

3,263



Aurora, OH

-

1,760

14,148

-

1,760

14,148




Austin, TX

10,052


18,970

-


18,970

2,421



Avon Lake, OH

-


10,421

-


10,421




Avon, IN

-

1,830

14,470

-

1,830

14,470




Ayer, MA

-

-

22,074

-

-

22,074




Baltic, OH

3,672


8,709



8,898

1,460



Baltimore, MD

-

1,350

14,884

-

1,350

14,884




Baltimore, MD

-


5,039

-


5,039




Barnum, MN

-

-

-

-

-

-

-



Bartlesville, OK

-


1,380

-


1,380




Baytown, TX

9,428


6,150

-


6,150

1,700



Baytown, TX

-


11,110

-


11,110




Beachwood, OH

-

1,260

23,478

-

1,260

23,478

6,529



Beattyville, KY

-


6,900

-


6,900

1,274



Bedford, NH

-

2,250

28,831

-

2,250

28,831




Bellevue, WI

-

1,740

18,260


1,740

18,831

2,706



Benbrook, TX

-

1,550

13,553

-

1,550

13,553




Bethel Park, PA

-

1,700

16,007

-

1,700

16,007

1,213



Bluefield, VA

-


12,463

-


12,463




Boise, ID

-


5,401

-


5,401

2,345



Boonville, IN

-


5,510

-


5,510

1,499



Boynton Beach, FL

-


8,112

-


8,112

1,734



Bradenton, FL

-


3,298

-


3,298

1,455



Braintree, MA

-


7,157

1,290


8,447

6,421



Brandon, MS

-

1,220

10,241

-

1,220

10,241




Bremerton, WA

-


2,210



2,354




Bremerton, WA

-


10,420



10,570




Brick, NJ

-

1,290

25,247

-

1,290

25,247




Brick, NJ

-

1,170

17,372


1,176

17,427




Brick, NJ

(1)

-


17,125



17,141




Bridgewater, NJ

-

1,850

3,050

-

1,850

3,050




Bridgewater, NJ

-

1,730

48,201


1,730

48,275

1,235



Bridgewater, NJ

-

1,800

31,810

-

1,800

31,810




Brighton, MA

-


3,859

2,126


5,985

1,142



Broadview Heights, OH

-


12,400

2,388


14,788

3,539



Brookline, MA

-

2,760

9,217

-

2,760

9,217




Brooklyn Park, MD

-

1,290

16,329

-

1,290

16,329




Bunnell, FL

-


7,118

-


7,118

1,610



Burleson, TX

12,752


13,985

-


13,985




Burlington, NC

-


4,297



5,004

1,133



Burlington, NC

-


5,467

-


5,467

1,274



Burlington, NJ

-

1,700

12,554

-

1,700

12,554




Burlington, NJ

-

1,170

19,205

-

1,170

19,205




Butler, AL

-


3,510

-


3,510





Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Year
  Acquired

Year
  Built

Butte, MT

-


3,957



4,000

1,223



Byrdstown, TN

-

-

2,414


-

2,546

1,247



Cambridge, MD

-


15,843

-


15,843




Canton, MA

-


8,201



8,464

2,495



Canton, OH

-


2,098

-


2,098




Cape Coral, FL

-


3,281

-


3,281




Carmel, IN

-

2,370

57,175


2,370

57,596

5,271



Cary, NC

-

1,500

4,350


1,500

5,336

1,798



Catonsville, MD

-

1,330

15,003

-

1,330

15,003




Cedar Grove, NJ

-

1,830

10,939

-

1,830

10,939




Cedar Grove, NJ

-

2,850

27,737

-

2,850

27,737




Centreville, MD

(1)

-


14,602

-


14,602




Chapel Hill, NC

-


2,646



3,429




Charles Town, WV

-


22,834

-


22,834




Charleston, WV

-


17,575

-


17,575




Charleston, WV

-


5,430

-


5,430




Chelmsford, MA

-

1,040

10,951

1,441

1,040

12,392

2,407



Chickasha, OK

-


1,395

-


1,395




Cincinnati, OH

-

2,060

109,388


2,060

109,738

4,195



Cinnaminson, NJ

-


6,663

-


6,663




Claremore, OK

-


1,428

-


1,428




Clark Summit, PA

-


11,179

-


11,179




Clarks Summit, PA

-


6,529

-


6,529




Clarksville, TN

-


2,292

-


2,292




Clearwater, FL

-


7,218

-


7,218

1,478



Clearwater, FL

-

1,260

2,740


1,260

3,064




Cleburne, TX

-


5,369

-


5,369




Cleveland, TN

-


5,000



5,122

1,531



Cloquet, MN

-


4,660

-


4,660




Cloquet, MN

-

-

-

-

-

-

-



Coeur d'Alene, ID

-


7,878

-


7,878

3,047



Colchester, CT

-


4,860

-


4,860




Colorado Springs, CO

-


6,290

-


6,290

1,273



Colts Neck, NJ

-


14,733



14,829




Columbia Heights, MN

-


14,175

-


14,175




Columbia, SC

-

2,120

4,860

5,709

2,120

10,569

2,086



Columbia, TN

-


2,295

-


2,295




Columbia, TN

-


3,787

-


3,787

1,161



Columbus, IN

-


3,190

-


3,190




Columbus, IN

-


6,710

-


6,710

1,677



Columbus, OH

-


5,170

8,300

1,070

12,930

2,170



Columbus, OH

4,090

1,010

5,022

-

1,010

5,022




Columbus, OH

-

1,010

4,931

13,620

1,860

17,701

2,900



Concord, NC

-


3,921



3,976

1,027



Concord, NH

-


18,423

-


18,423




Concord, NH

-

1,760

43,179

-

1,760

43,179




Concord, NH

-


3,041

-


3,041




Conroe, TX

-


7,771

-


7,771




Corpus Christi, TX

-



-






Corpus Christi, TX

-


1,916

-


1,916




Dade City, FL

-


7,150

-


7,150

1,520



Daniels, WV

-


17,320

-


17,320




Danville, VA

-


3,954



4,676

1,104



Daytona Beach, FL

-


5,930

-


5,930

1,372



Daytona Beach, FL

-


5,710

-


5,710

1,370



DeBary, FL

-


7,460

-


7,460

1,578



Dedham, MA

-

1,360

9,830

-

1,360

9,830

2,878



DeForest, WI

-


5,350



5,704




Defuniak Springs, FL

-

1,350

10,250

-

1,350

10,250

1,572



DeLand, FL

-


7,080

-


7,080

1,511



Denton, MD

-


4,010



4,216

1,183



Denton, TX

-

1,760

8,305

-

1,760

8,305




Denver, CO

-

2,530

9,514

-

2,530

9,514

1,684



Denver, CO

-

3,650

14,906

1,605

3,650

16,511

2,134



Denver, CO

-

2,076

13,594

-

2,076

13,594




Dover, DE

-


7,717

-


7,717




Dover, DE

-


22,266

-


22,266




Drescher, PA

-

2,060

40,236


2,063

40,278

1,028



Dundalk, MD

(1)

-

1,770

32,047

-

1,770

32,047




Durham, NC

-

1,476

10,659

2,196

1,476

12,855

7,592



East Brunswick, NJ

-

1,380

34,229

-

1,380

34,229




East Norriston, PA

-

1,200

28,129


1,210

28,258




Easton, MD

-


24,539

-


24,539




Easton, PA

-


6,315

-


6,315

3,440



Eatontown, NJ

-

1,190

23,358

-

1,190

23,358





Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Year
  Acquired

Year
  Built

Eden, NC

-


4,877

-


4,877

1,156



El Paso, TX

-


8,961



9,193

1,725



El Paso, TX

-


3,958

1,100


5,058




Elizabeth City, NC

-


2,760

2,011


4,771

1,480



Elizabethton, TN

-


4,604



4,940

1,514



Englewood, NJ

-


4,514

-


4,514




Englishtown, NJ

-


12,520



12,557




Erin, TN

-


8,060



8,194

2,347



Eugene, OR

-


5,316

-


5,316

2,207



Everett, WA

-

1,400

5,476

-

1,400

5,476

1,906



Fair Lawn, NJ

-

2,420

24,504

-

2,420

24,504




Fairfield, CA

-

1,460

14,040

-

1,460

14,040

3,911



Fairhaven, MA

-


6,230

-


6,230

1,282



Fall River, MA

-


5,829

4,856


10,685

3,699



Fall River, MA

-


34,715

-


34,715




Fanwood, NJ

-

2,850

55,175

-

2,850

55,175




Fayetteville, NY

-


3,962



4,462

1,193



Findlay, OH

-


1,800

-


1,800




Fishers, IN

-

1,500

14,500

-

1,500

14,500




Florence, NJ

-


2,978

-


2,978




Flourtown, PA

-

1,800

14,830

-

1,800

14,830




Follansbee, WV

-


27,670

-


27,670




Forest City, NC

-


4,497

-


4,497

1,076



Fork Union, VA

-


2,490



2,550




Fort Ashby, WV

-


19,566

-


19,566




Fort Pierce, FL

-


3,560



3,771




Franconia, NH

-


11,320

-


11,320




Franklin, NH

-


15,210

-


15,210




Fredericksburg, VA

-

1,000

20,000

1,119

1,000

21,119

3,579



Fredericksburg, VA

-


28,611

-


28,611




Gardner, MA

-


10,210

-


10,210




Gastonia, NC

-


6,129

-


6,129

1,419



Gastonia, NC

-


3,096



3,118




Gastonia, NC

-


5,029



5,149

1,199



Georgetown, TX

-


2,100

-


2,100




Gettysburg, PA

-


8,913

-


8,913




Glastonbury, CT

-

1,950

9,532

-

1,950

9,532




Glen Mills, PA

-


9,110

-


9,110




Glenside, PA

-

1,940

16,867

-

1,940

16,867




Goochland, VA

-


3,697

-


3,697




Goshen, IN

-


6,120

-


6,120

1,059



Graceville, FL

-


13,000

-


13,000

1,939



Grafton, WV

-


18,824

-


18,824




Granbury, TX

22,500

2,040

30,670

-

2,040

30,670




Grand Ledge, MI

8,356

1,150

16,286

-

1,150

16,286




Grand Prairie, TX

-


3,426

-


3,426




Granger, IN

-

1,670

21,280

1,127

1,670

22,407




Greeneville, TN

-


8,290



8,699

1,868



Greenfield, WI

-


6,626



6,954




Greensboro, NC

-


2,970



3,524




Greensboro, NC

-


5,507

1,013


6,520

1,565



Greenville, NC

-


4,393



4,561

1,048



Greenville, SC

-


4,750

-


4,750

1,013



Greenville, SC

-

5,400

100,523

1,007

5,400

101,530

5,372



Greenwood, IN

-

1,550

22,770

-

1,550

22,770




Groton, CT

-

2,430

19,941

-

2,430

19,941




Haddonfield, NJ

-


2,320

-


2,320




Hamburg, PA

-


10,543

-


10,543




Hamden, CT

-

1,470

4,530

-

1,470

4,530

1,475



Hamilton, NJ

-


4,469

-


4,469

1,209



Hanover, IN

-


4,430

-


4,430




Harleysville, PA

-


11,355

-


11,355




Harriman, TN

-


8,060



8,218

2,507



Hatboro, PA

-

-

28,112

-

-

28,112




Hattiesburg, MS

13,100


15,518



15,553




Haverford, PA

-

1,880

33,993


1,880

34,078




Hemet, CA

-


3,405

-


3,405




Henderson, NV

-


9,220



9,285

3,161



Henderson, NV

-


4,360



4,401

1,326



Hermitage, TN

-

1,500

9,856

-

1,500

9,856




Hickory, NC

-





1,219




High Point, NC

-


4,443



5,236

1,242



High Point, NC

-


2,185



2,595




High Point, NC

-


3,395



3,423




High Point, NC

-


4,143

-


4,143





Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Year
  Acquired

Year
  Built

Highlands Ranch, CO

-


3,721

-


3,721

1,027



Hilliard, FL

-


6,990

-


6,990

2,665



Hilltop, WV

-


25,355

-


25,355




Homestead, FL

-

2,750

11,750

-

2,750

11,750

1,793



Hopedale, MA

-


8,170

-


8,170

1,502



Houston, TX

10,050


18,715

-


18,715

2,139



Houston, TX

-

5,090

9,471

-

5,090

9,471




Houston, TX

10,410


5,970



6,720

1,793



Howell, NJ

10,528

1,050

21,703


1,050

21,739




Huntington, WV

-


32,261

-


32,261




Huron, OH

-


6,088

1,452


7,540

1,176



Hurricane, WV

-


21,454

-


21,454




Hutchinson, KS

-


10,590

-


10,590

2,034



Indianapolis, IN

-


6,287

22,565


28,852

4,486



Indianapolis, IN

-


2,473

12,123


14,596

2,079



Jamestown, TN

-

-

6,707

-

-

6,707

3,465



Jefferson, OH

-


9,120

-


9,120

1,589



Kalida, OH

-


8,173

-


8,173

1,041



Kalispell, MT

-


3,282

-


3,282

1,175



Keene, NH

-


9,639

-


9,639




Kenner, LA

-

1,100

10,036


1,100

10,364

6,054



Kennett Square, PA

-

1,050

22,946


1,050

22,964




Kenosha, WI

-

1,500

9,139

-

1,500

9,139




Kent, WA

-


20,318

10,470


30,788

2,841



Kirkland, WA

-

1,880

4,315


1,880

4,529

1,006



Kissimmee, FL

-


3,854

-


3,854




LaBelle, FL

-


4,946

-


4,946

1,141



Laconia, NH

-


14,434

-


14,434




Lake Havasu City, AZ

-


4,223

-


4,223

1,452



Lake Havasu City, AZ

-


2,244



2,380




Lake Placid, FL

-


12,850

-


12,850

2,791



Lake Zurich, IL

-

1,470

9,830

-

1,470

9,830




Lancaster, NH

-


15,804

-


15,804




Lancaster, NH

-



-






Lancaster, PA

-


7,623

-


7,623




Langhorne, PA

-

1,350

24,881

-

1,350

24,881




LaPlata, MD

-


19,068

-


19,068




Lawrenceville, VA

-


4,780

-


4,780




Lebanon, NH

-


20,138

-


20,138




Lecanto, FL

-


6,900

-


6,900

1,412



Lee, MA

-


18,135



19,061

5,058



Lenoir, NC

-


3,748



4,389

1,036



Leominster, MA

-


6,201

-


6,201




Lewisburg, WV

-


3,699

-


3,699




Lexington, NC

-


3,900

1,015


4,915

1,250



Libertyville, IL

14,343

6,500

40,024

-

6,500

40,024




Lincoln, NE

5,273


13,807

-


13,807




Linwood, NJ

-


21,984



22,259




Litchfield, CT

-

1,240

17,908


1,240

17,953




Little Neck, NY

-

3,350

38,461


3,355

38,607




Littleton, MA

-

1,240

2,910

-

1,240

2,910




Loma Linda, CA

-

2,214

9,586

-

2,214

9,586

1,228



Longview, TX

-


1,707

-


1,707




Longview, TX

-


5,520

-


5,520




Longwood, FL

-


7,520

-


7,520

1,628



Longwood, FL

-

1,260

6,445

-

1,260

6,445




Louisville, KY

-


10,010

-


10,010

2,297



Louisville, KY

-


7,135



7,298

2,217



Louisville, KY

-


4,675



4,784

1,485



Lowell, MA

-

1,070

13,481

-

1,070

13,481




Lowell, MA

-


3,378

-


3,378




Lufkin, TX

-


1,184

-


1,184




Lutherville, MD

-

1,100

19,786

-

1,100

19,786




Macungie, PA

-


29,033

-


29,033




Manahawkin, NJ

-

1,020

20,361

-

1,020

20,361




Manalapan, NJ

-


22,624

-


22,624




Manassas, VA

-


7,446



7,938

1,662



Manchester, NH

-


4,360



4,619




Mansfield, TX

-


5,251

-


5,251




Marianna, FL

-


8,910

-


8,910

1,325



Marlinton, WV

-


8,430

-


8,430




Marmet, WV

-


26,483

-


26,483




Martinsburg, WV

-


17,180

-


17,180




Martinsville, VA

-


-

-


-

-


-


Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Year
  Acquired

Year
  Built

Marysville, CA

-


4,172



4,216

1,294



Matawan, NJ

-


15,549

-


15,549




Matthews, NC

-


4,738

-


4,738

1,158



McConnelsville, OH

-


7,060

-


7,060




McHenry, IL

-

1,576

-

-

1,576

-

-


-

McHenry, IL

-

3,550

15,300

6,718

3,550

22,018

2,533



McKinney, TX

-

1,570

7,389

-

1,570

7,389




McMurray, PA

-

1,440

15,805

-

1,440

15,805

-



Melbourne, FL

-

7,070

48,257

11,726

7,070

59,983

3,323



Melville, NY

-

4,280

73,283


4,282

73,468

1,867



Memphis, TN

-


5,963

-


5,963

1,535



Memphis, TN

-


9,660

1,600


11,260




Mendham, NJ

-

1,240

27,169

-

1,240

27,169




Menomonee Falls, WI

-

1,020

6,984

-

1,020

6,984




Mercerville, NJ

-


9,929

-


9,929




Meriden, CT

-

1,300

1,472

-

1,300

1,472




Merrillville, IN

-


7,084

3,526


10,610

5,601



Merrillville, IN

-

1,080

3,413

-

1,080

3,413




Middleburg Heights, OH

-


7,780

-


7,780

1,525



Middleton, WI

-


4,006



4,606

1,109



Middletown, RI

-

1,480

19,703

-

1,480

19,703




Midland, MI

-


11,025

-


11,025




Midwest City, OK

-


5,673

-


5,673

3,277



Midwest City, OK

-


5,516

-


5,516

1,107



Milford, DE

-


7,816

-


7,816




Milford, DE

-


19,216

-


19,216




Millersville, MD

-


1,020

-


1,020




Millville, NJ

-


29,944

-


29,944




Missoula, MT

-


7,490

-


7,490

1,291



Monmouth Junction, NJ

-


6,209

-


6,209




Monroe Twp, NJ

-

1,160

13,193

-

1,160

13,193




Monroe, NC

-


3,681



4,329

1,048



Monroe, NC

-


4,799



5,656

1,290



Monroe, NC

-


4,021



4,135




Monteagle, TN

-


3,318

-


3,318




Monterey, TN

-

-

4,195


-

4,218

2,167



Monticello, FL

-


4,471

-


4,471

1,061



Montville, NJ

-

3,500

31,002

-

3,500

31,002




Moorestown, NJ

-

2,060

51,628


2,062

51,735

1,328



Morehead City, NC

-


3,104

1,648


4,752

1,481



Morgantown, KY

-


3,705



3,712




Morgantown, WV

-

1,830

20,541

-

1,830

20,541




Morton Grove, IL

-

1,900

19,374

-

1,900

19,374




Moss Point, MS

-


7,280

-


7,280

1,609



Mount Airy, NC

-


6,430



6,558

1,025



Mountain City, TN

-


5,896



6,556

3,263



Mt. Vernon, WA

-


2,200



2,356




Myrtle Beach, SC

-

6,890

41,526

10,640

6,890

52,166

2,887



Nacogdoches, TX

-


5,754

-


5,754




Naperville, IL

9,144

3,470

29,547

-

3,470

29,547




Naples, FL

-


5,450

-


5,450

1,193



Nashville, TN

-

4,910

29,590

-

4,910

29,590

2,775



Naugatuck, CT

-

1,200

15,826

-

1,200

15,826




Needham, MA

-

1,610

13,715


1,610

14,081

4,141



Neenah, WI

-


15,120

-


15,120




New Braunfels, TX

-

1,200

19,800

-

1,200

19,800




New Haven, CT

-


4,778

1,789


6,567

2,100



New Haven, IN

-


3,524

-


3,524




Newark, DE

-


21,220

1,181


22,401

4,007



Newburyport, MA

-


8,290

-


8,290

2,227



Newport, VT

-


3,867

-


3,867




Norman, OK

-


1,484

-


1,484




Norristown, PA

-

1,200

19,488

-

1,200

19,488




North Andover, MA

-


21,817

-


21,817




North Andover, MA

-

1,070

17,341

-

1,070

17,341




North Augusta, SC

-


2,558

-


2,558




North Cape May, NJ

-


22,266

-


22,266




North Miami, FL

-


3,918

-


3,918

1,137



North Miami, FL

-


4,830

-


4,830

1,145



Oak Hill, WV

-


24,506

-


24,506




Oak Hill, WV

-



-






Ocala, FL

-

1,340

10,564

-

1,340

10,564




Ogden, UT

-


6,700



7,327

1,334



Oklahoma City, OK

-


10,694

-


10,694

1,794



Oklahoma City, OK

-


7,513

-


7,513





Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Year
  Acquired

Year
  Built

Oklahoma City, OK

-


7,017

-


7,017




Omaha, NE

-


10,230

-


10,230




Omaha, NE

4,544


8,864

-


8,864




Oneonta, NY

-


5,020

-


5,020




Ormond Beach, FL

-

-

2,739


-

2,812

1,354



Orwigsburg, PA

-


20,632

-


20,632




Oshkosh, WI

-


3,800

3,687


7,487

1,072



Oshkosh, WI

-


23,237

-


23,237

1,818



Overland Park, KS

-

1,120

8,360

-

1,120

8,360

1,511



Overland Park, KS

-

3,730

27,076


3,730

27,416

1,542



Overland Park, KS

-

4,500

29,105

6,386

4,500

35,491




Owasso, OK

-


1,380

-


1,380




Owensboro, KY

-


6,760

-


6,760

1,331



Owensboro, KY

-


13,275

-


13,275

2,523



Owenton, KY

-


2,400

-


2,400




Oxford, MI

11,892

1,430

15,791

-

1,430

15,791




Palestine, TX

-


4,320

1,300


5,620




Palm Coast, FL

-


10,957

-


10,957




Panama City Beach, FL

-


7,717

-


7,717




Panama City, FL

-


9,200

-


9,200

2,004



Paris, TX

-


5,452

-


5,452

1,877



Parkersburg, WV

-


21,288

-


21,288




Parkville, MD

-

1,350

16,071

-

1,350

16,071




Parkville, MD

-


11,186

-


11,186




Parkville, MD

-

1,100

11,768

-

1,100

11,768




Pasadena, TX

10,073


24,080

-


24,080

3,027



Paso Robles, CA

-

1,770

8,630


1,770

9,305

2,394



Pawleys Island, SC

-

2,020

32,590

5,482

2,020

38,072

5,602



Pennington, NJ

-

1,380

27,620

-

1,380

27,620




Pennsauken, NJ

-


10,780

-


10,780




Petoskey, MI

6,456


14,452

-


14,452




Philadelphia, PA

-

2,700

25,709

-

2,700

25,709




Philadelphia, PA

-

2,930

10,433

-

2,930

10,433




Philadelphia, PA

-


11,239

-


11,239




Philadelphia, PA

-

1,810

16,898

-

1,810

16,898




Phillipsburg, NJ

-


21,175

-


21,175




Phillipsburg, NJ

-


8,114

-


8,114




Pigeon Forge, TN

-


4,180



4,297

1,373



Pikesville, MD

-


10,750

-


10,750

1,423



Pinehurst, NC

-


2,690



3,174




Piqua, OH

-


1,885

-


1,885




Pittsburgh, PA

-

1,750

8,572


1,750

8,687

1,654



Plainview, NY

-

3,990

11,969

-

3,990

11,969




Plano, TX

-

1,305

9,095

1,281

1,305

10,376

1,820



Plattsmouth, NE

-


5,650

-


5,650




Plymouth, MI

12,463

1,490

19,990

-

1,490

19,990




Port St. Joe, FL

-


2,055

-


2,055




Port St. Lucie, FL

-

8,700

47,230

2,969

8,700

50,199

2,223



Post Falls, ID

-

2,700

14,217

2,181

2,700

16,398

1,383



Pottsville, PA

-


26,964

-


26,964




Princeton, NJ

-

1,730

30,888

-

1,730

30,888




Prospect, CT

-


1,441

2,541


3,982

1,482



Pueblo, CO

-


6,051

-


6,051

2,591



Quakertown, PA

-

1,040

25,389

-

1,040

25,389




Quincy, FL

-


5,333

-


5,333

1,276



Quincy, MA

-

2,690

15,410

-

2,690

15,410

2,842



Quitman, MS

-


10,340

-


10,340

2,151



Raleigh, NC

-

10,000

-

-

10,000

-

-


-

Reading, PA

-


19,906

-


19,906




Red Bank, NJ

-

1,050

21,275

-

1,050

21,275




Rehoboth Beach, DE

-


24,248



24,308




Reidsville, NC

-


3,830



4,687

1,207



Reno, NV

-

1,060

11,440


1,060

12,044

2,245



Richmond, VA

-

1,211

2,889

-

1,211

2,889

1,012



Richmond, VA

-


12,640

-


12,640

1,708



Ridgeland, MS

-


7,675

-


7,675

1,711



Ridgely, TN

-


5,700



5,797

1,703



Ridgewood, NJ

-

1,350

16,170

-

1,350

16,170




Rockledge, FL

-


4,117

-


4,117

1,533



Rockville Centre, NY

-

4,290

20,310

-

4,290

20,310




Rockville, CT

-

1,500

4,835

-

1,500

4,835




Rockwood, TN

-


7,116



7,857

2,301



Rocky Hill, CT

-

1,460

7,040

-

1,460

7,040

2,076



Rocky Hill, CT

-

1,090

6,710

1,500

1,090

8,210

1,623



Rogersville, TN

-


3,278

-


3,278





Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Year
  Acquired

Year
  Built

Romeoville, IL

-

1,895

-

-

1,895

-

-


-

Royal Palm Beach, FL

-


8,320

-


8,320

1,854



Rutland, VT

-

1,190

23,655

-

1,190

23,655




Saint Simons Island, GA

-

6,440

50,060


6,440

51,056

4,510



Salem, OR

-


5,172

-


5,172

1,856



Salisbury, NC

-


5,697



5,865

1,352



San Angelo, TX

-


8,800

-


8,800

1,689



San Antonio, TX

-

6,120

28,169

-

6,120

28,169




San Antonio, TX

10,882


7,315

-


7,315

2,038



San Antonio, TX

10,030


13,360

-


13,360

1,755



Sanatoga, PA

-


30,695

-


30,695




Sarasota, FL

-


3,175

-


3,175

1,400



Sarasota, FL

-


8,474

-


8,474

2,958



Sarasota, FL

-


3,400

-


3,400




Scituate, MA

-

1,740

10,640

-

1,740

10,640

1,780



Scott Depot, WV

-


6,876

-


6,876




Seaford, DE

-


14,029

-


14,029




Selbyville, DE

-


25,912



25,943




Seven Fields, PA

-


4,663



4,722

1,703



Severna Park, MD

(1)

-

2,120

31,273

-

2,120

31,273




Seville, OH

-


1,770

-


1,770




Shawnee, OK

-


1,400

-


1,400




Sheboygan, WI

-


5,320

3,774


9,094




Shelby, MS

-


5,340

-


5,340

1,146



Shelbyville, KY

-


3,870

-


3,870




Shepherdstown, WV

-


13,806

-


13,806




Sherman, TX

-


5,221

-


5,221




Shillington, PA

-

1,020

19,569

-

1,020

19,569




Shrewsbury, NJ

-

2,120

38,116


2,120

38,278




Silvis, IL

-


16,420

-


16,420




Sissonville, WV

-


23,948

-


23,948




Sisterville, WV

-


5,400

-


5,400




Smithfield, NC

-


5,680

-


5,680

1,328



Somerset, MA

-

1,010

29,577

-

1,010

29,577




South Boston, MA

-


2,002

5,218


7,220

2,642



South Pittsburg, TN

-


5,628

-


5,628

1,370



Southbury, CT

-

1,860

23,613

-

1,860

23,613




Sparks, NV

-

3,700

46,526

-

3,700

46,526

3,058



Spartanburg, SC

-

3,350

15,750

10,037

3,350

25,787

3,148



Spencer, WV

-


8,810

-


8,810




Spring City, TN

-


6,085

2,628


8,713

2,415



Spring House, PA

-


10,780

-


10,780




St. Charles, MD

-


15,555

-


15,555




St. Louis, MO

-


6,030

-


6,030

1,610



St. Louis, MO

-

1,890

12,165

-

1,890

12,165




Starke, FL

-


10,180

-


10,180

2,199



Statesville, NC

-


1,447



1,713




Statesville, NC

-


6,183



6,191

1,397



Statesville, NC

-


3,627

-


3,627




Staunton, VA

-


11,090

-


11,090

1,514



Stillwater, OK

-


1,400

-


1,400




Stuart, FL

-


8,110

-


8,110

1,737



Summit, NJ

9,413

3,080

14,152

-

3,080

14,152




Swanton, OH

-


6,370

-


6,370

1,318



Tampa, FL

-


6,370

-


6,370

1,699



Texarkana, TX

-


1,403

-


1,403




Thomasville, GA

-


13,899

-


13,899




Tomball, TX

-

1,050

13,300

-

1,050

13,300




Toms River, NJ

-

1,610

34,627


1,641

34,881




Torrington, CT

-


1,261

1,292


2,553




Towson, MD

(1)

-

1,180

13,280

-

1,180

13,280




Troy, OH

-


2,000

4,254


6,254

1,000



Troy, OH

-


16,730

-


16,730

3,332



Trumbull, CT

14,164

4,440

43,384

-

4,440

43,384




Tucson, AZ

-


13,399

-


13,399

2,308



Tulsa, OK

-

1,390

7,110

-

1,390

7,110




Twin Falls, ID

-


14,740

-


14,740

4,184



Tyler, TX

-


5,268

-


5,268




Uhrichsville, OH

-


6,716

-


6,716

1,116



Uniontown, PA

-


6,817

-


6,817




Valley Falls, RI

-

1,080

7,433

-

1,080

7,433




Valparaiso, IN

-


2,558

-


2,558




Valparaiso, IN

-


2,962

-


2,962




Venice, FL

-


6,000

-


6,000

1,290



Venice, FL

-

1,150

10,674

-

1,150

10,674





Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Year
  Acquired

Year
  Built

Vero Beach, FL

-


3,187

-


3,187




Vero Beach, FL

-


3,263

-


3,263




Vero Beach, FL

-

2,930

40,070

13,615

2,930

53,685

4,866



Voorhees, NJ

-

1,800

37,299

-

1,800

37,299




Voorhees, NJ

(1)

-

1,900

26,040

-

1,900

26,040




W. Hartford, CT

-

2,650

5,980

-

2,650

5,980

1,316



Waconia, MN

-


14,726

-


14,726




Wake Forest, NC

-


3,003

1,742


4,745

1,529



Wall, NJ

-

1,650

25,350

-

1,650

25,350




Wallingford, CT

-


1,210

-


1,210




Wareham, MA

-


10,313

1,701


12,014

3,283



Warren, NJ

-

2,000

30,810

-

2,000

30,810




Warren, OH

-


3,810

-


3,810




Warwick, RI

-

1,530

18,564

-

1,530

18,564




Watchung, NJ

-

1,920

24,880

-

1,920

24,880




Waterbury, CT

-


2,166

1,927


4,093

1,198



Waterford, CT

-

1,360

12,540

-

1,360

12,540

3,401



Waukesha, WI

-

1,100

14,910

-

1,100

14,910




Waxahachie, TX

-


5,763

-


5,763




Weatherford, TX

-


5,261

-


5,261




Webster, TX

9,585


5,940

-


5,940

1,648



West Bend, WI

-


17,790

-


17,790

-



West Chester, PA

-

1,350

29,237

-

1,350

29,237




West Haven, CT

-


1,620

1,680


3,300

1,121



West Orange, NJ

-

2,280

10,687

-

2,280

10,687




West Worthington, OH

-


5,090

-


5,090




Westerville, OH

-


8,287

2,736


11,023

5,877



Westfield, NJ

(1)

-

2,270

16,589

-

2,270

16,589




Westford, MA

-


13,829

-


13,829




Westlake, OH

-

1,330

17,926

-

1,330

17,926

5,064



Westlake, OH

-


5,411

-


5,411

2,241



Westmoreland, TN

-


1,822

2,634


4,456

1,355



White Lake, MI

10,917

2,920

20,179

-

2,920

20,179




Whitemarsh, PA

-

2,310

6,190

1,923

2,310

8,113

1,501



Wichita, KS

-

1,400

11,000

-

1,400

11,000

1,734



Wilkes-Barre, PA

-


13,842

-


13,842




Wilkes-Barre, PA

-


2,301

-


2,301




Williamsburg, VA

-

1,360

7,440

-

1,360

7,440

1,019



Williamsport, PA

-


4,946

-


4,946




Williamsport, PA

-


8,487

-


8,487




Williamstown, KY

-


6,430

-


6,430

1,234



Willow Grove, PA

-

1,300

14,736

-

1,300

14,736




Wilmington, DE

-


9,494

-


9,494




Wilmington, NC

-


2,991

-


2,991

1,066



Winchester, VA

-


1,510

-


1,510




Windsor, CT

-

2,250

8,539

-

2,250

8,539




Windsor, CT

-

1,800


-

1,800





Winston-Salem, NC

-


2,514



2,973




Winston-Salem, NC

-

5,700

13,550

11,716

5,700

25,266

3,418



Woodbridge, VA

-


4,423



4,753

1,302



Worcester, MA

-

3,500

54,099

-

3,500

54,099

2,897



Worcester, MA

-

2,300

9,060

-

2,300

9,060




Wyncote, PA

-

2,700

22,244

-

2,700

22,244




Wyncote, PA

-

1,610

21,256

-

1,610

21,256




Wyncote, PA

-


7,811

-


7,811




Zionsville, IN

-

1,610

22,400

1,358

1,610

23,758




Seniors housing triple-net total

258,600

575,231

6,992,506

293,078

576,701

7,284,115

642,910


Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Year
  Acquired

Year
  Built

Seniors housing operating facilities:

Albuquerque, NM

$

5,772

$

1,270

$

20,837

$


$

1,270

$

20,917

$

1,386



Agawam, MA

6,688


10,044

-


10,044




Alhambra, CA

3,047


6,305

-


6,305




Albertville, AL

2,088


6,203



6,319




Apple Valley, CA

11,126


16,639



16,705

1,651



Atlanta, GA

7,889

2,058

14,914


2,059

15,518

8,666



Austin, TX

19,550


9,520



10,032

3,529



Avon, CT

21,463

1,550

30,571

-

1,550

30,571

1,903



Azusa, CA

-


3,141

6,000


9,141

1,295



Bellingham, WA

8,979

1,500

19,861


1,500

19,920

1,836



Belmont, CA

-

3,000

23,526

-

3,000

23,526




Brighton, MA

-

2,100

14,616

-

2,100

14,616




Brookfield, CT

20,005

2,250

30,180

-

2,250

30,180

1,946



Cardiff by the Sea, CA

-

5,880

64,711

-

5,880

64,711




North Chelmsford, MA

11,972


18,478

-


18,478

1,118



Concord, NH

13,591


21,164

-


21,164

1,169



Costa Mesa, CA

-

2,050

19,969

-

2,050

19,969

1,749



Citrus Heights, CA

15,373

2,300

31,876


2,300

32,029

2,960



Centerville, MA

17,763

1,300

27,357

-

1,300

27,357

1,588



Dallas, TX

-

1,080

9,655

-

1,080

9,655




Danvers, MA

9,621

1,120

14,557

-

1,120

14,557

1,004



Davenport, IA

-

1,403

35,893

1,805

1,403

37,699

2,149



Dublin, OH

19,181

1,680

43,423


1,680

43,619

2,225



Encinitas, CA

-

1,460

7,721


1,460

7,884

2,595



Escondido, CA

13,471

1,520

24,024

-

1,520

24,024

1,633



East Haven, CT

23,577

2,660

35,533

-

2,660

35,533

2,266



Florence, AL

7,342


13,049



13,177

1,168



Fremont, CA

20,028

3,400

25,300

1,527

3,400

26,827

4,183



Gig Harbor, WA

5,967

1,560

15,947


1,560

15,999

1,434



Gilroy, CA

-


13,880

23,860


37,740

4,044



Gardnerville, NV

12,943

1,143

10,831


1,144

11,482

6,832



Hemet, CA

13,550

1,890

28,606


1,890

28,752

2,820



Hemet, CA

-


9,630



10,014




Hamden, CT

15,710

1,460

24,093

-

1,460

24,093

1,602



Henderson, NV

15,709


29,809

-


29,809




Houston, TX

8,326


27,598

-


27,598

1,797



Irving, TX

-

1,030

6,823


1,030

7,418




Kingwood, TX

3,329


9,777

-


9,777




Kennewick, WA

9,010

1,820

27,991


1,820

28,082

2,646



Kansas City, MO

5,911

1,820

34,898


1,820

35,229

2,236



Kansas City, MO

7,250

1,930

39,997


1,930

40,075

2,688



Kirkland, WA

34,000

3,450

38,709

-

3,450

38,709




Lancaster, CA

10,378


15,295



15,378

1,621



Los Angeles, CA

-

-

11,430


-

11,787




Los Angeles, CA

-

-

114,438

-

-

114,438

1,172



Mansfield, MA

37,918

3,320

57,011

-

3,320

57,011

2,763



Mansfield, MA

-

-

-

-

-

-

-



Manteca, CA

6,358

1,300

12,125

1,361

1,300

13,486

2,138



Meriden, CT

9,903

1,500

14,874

-

1,500

14,874

1,272



Mesa, AZ

6,279


9,087



9,573

2,914



Milford, CT

12,656

3,210

17,364

-

3,210

17,364

1,171



Middletown, CT

15,756

1,430

24,242

-

1,430

24,242

1,659



Middletown, RI

16,729

2,480

24,628

-

2,480

24,628

1,612



Mill Creek, WA

30,259

10,150

60,274


10,150

60,556

5,360



Monroe, WA

14,167

2,560

34,460


2,560

34,645

3,107



Marysville, WA

4,711


4,780



5,056

1,082



Mystic, CT

12,072

1,400

18,274

-

1,400

18,274

1,274



North Andover, MA

22,890

1,960

34,976

-

1,960

34,976

2,055



Newton, MA

28,400

2,250

43,614

-

2,250

43,614

2,536



Newton, MA

10,758

2,500

30,681

-

2,500

30,681

1,829



Newton, MA

17,564

3,360

25,099

-

3,360

25,099

1,683



Niantic, CT

16,855

1,320

25,986

-

1,320

25,986

1,623



Naples, FL

-

1,716

17,306

1,588

1,716

18,894

13,706



Olympia, WA

7,197


16,689



16,853

1,533



Oceanside, CA

13,369

2,160

18,352

-

2,160

18,352




Plano, TX

4,335


8,538

-


8,538




Providence, RI

18,433

2,600

27,546

-

2,600

27,546

1,977



Puyallup, WA

11,706

1,150

20,776


1,150

20,945

2,085



Quincy, MA

8,551

1,350

12,584

-

1,350

12,584




Redondo Beach, CA

6,154

-

9,556

-

-

9,556




Rocky Hill, CT

10,531


16,351

-


16,351

1,104



Romeoville, IL

-


12,646

58,314

6,100

65,714

3,300



Renton, WA

22,855

3,080

51,824

-

3,080

51,824




Rohnert Park, CA

14,086

6,500

18,700

1,367

6,500

20,067

3,152



Roswell, GA

8,100

1,107

9,627


1,107

10,047

6,105



Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Year
  Acquired

Year
  Built

Sacramento, CA

10,596


14,781



14,819

1,473



Salem, NH

20,915


32,721

-


32,721

1,827



San Ramon, CA

9,598

2,430

17,488


2,430

17,504

1,624



Scottsdale, AZ

-

2,500

3,890


2,500

4,686




San Diego, CA

15,879

4,200

30,707

-

4,200

30,707




Seattle, WA

7,838

5,190

9,350


5,190

9,449

1,573



Seattle, WA

7,795

3,420

15,555


3,420

15,582

1,777



Seattle, WA

9,398

2,630

10,257


2,630

10,282

1,255



Seattle, WA

29,205

10,670

37,291


10,670

37,369

3,683



Seattle, WA

48,540

6,790

85,369

-

6,790

85,369




Shelburne, VT

19,706


31,041

-


31,041

1,737



San Juan Capistrano, CA

-

1,390

6,942


1,390

7,017

2,051



Salt Lake City, UT

-

1,360

19,691

-

1,360

19,691

2,100



San Jose, CA

23,422

2,850

35,098

-

2,850

35,098




Sonoma, CA

15,238

1,100

18,400

1,146

1,100

19,546

3,056



Stanwood, WA

10,196

2,260

28,474


2,260

28,548

2,755



Santa Maria, CA

30,564

6,050

50,658

-

6,050

50,658




Stockton, CA

3,050

2,280

5,983


2,280

6,090




Sugar Land, TX

5,904


31,423

-


31,423

2,268



South Windsor, CT

19,888

3,000

29,295

-

3,000

29,295

1,989



Tacoma, WA

19,390

2,400

35,053

-

2,400

35,053




Toledo, OH

16,609

2,040

47,129


2,040

47,221

3,721



Trumbull, CT

25,078

2,850

37,685

-

2,850

37,685

2,321



Tustin, CA

7,090


15,299

-


15,299




Tulsa, OK

6,467

1,330

21,285


1,330

21,459

1,509



Tulsa, OK

8,452

1,500

20,861


1,500

20,915

1,514



Vacaville, CA

14,485


17,100

1,185


18,285

2,892



Vancouver, WA

12,173

1,820

19,042


1,820

19,115

1,944



Vallejo, CA

14,501

4,000

18,000

1,536

4,000

19,536

3,045



Vallejo, CA

7,628

2,330

15,407


2,330

15,431

1,776



Warwick, RI

16,567

2,400

24,635

-

2,400

24,635

1,790



Waterbury, CT

25,825

2,460

39,547

-

2,460

39,547

2,568



The Woodlands, TX

2,678


12,379

-


12,379




Whittier, CA

11,931

4,470

22,151


4,470

22,248

2,392



Wilbraham, MA

11,221


17,639

-


17,639

1,198



Woodbridge, CT

9,399

1,370

14,219

-

1,370

14,219

1,225



Worcester, MA

14,005

1,140

21,664

-

1,140

21,664

1,449



Yarmouth, ME

17,415


27,711

-


27,711

1,625



Seniors housing operating total

1,317,849

223,614

2,678,007

108,366

228,859

2,781,126

218,031


Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Year
  Acquired

Year
  Built

Medical facilities:

Akron, OH

$

-

$


$

20,200

$

-

$


$

20,200

$

1,057



Alpharetta, GA

-


18,205

-


18,205




Alpharetta, GA

-


32,729

-


32,729




Alpharetta, GA

-


14,406

-


14,406

-



Alpharetta, GA

-

1,700


-

1,700


-


Alpharetta, GA

-


16,063

-


16,063

-



Amarillo, TX

-


11,928

1,400


13,328

2,139



Arcadia, CA

9,941

5,408

23,219

1,354

5,618

24,362

4,399



Atlanta, GA

-

4,931

18,720

2,123

5,293

20,480

4,509



Bartlett, TN

8,349


15,015



15,763

2,801



Bellaire, TX

-

4,551

46,105

-

4,551

46,105

6,577



Bellaire, TX

-

2,972

33,445

1,601

2,972

35,046

5,677



Bellevue, NE

-

-

15,833


-

16,352




Bellevue, NE

-

4,500

109,719

-

4,500

109,719

4,363



Bellingham, MA

-

9,270

-

-

9,270

-

-


-

Birmingham, AL

-


9,950

-


9,950

1,898



Birmingham, AL

-


12,238

-


12,238

2,206



Birmingham, AL

-


18,994

-


18,994

3,100



Boardman, OH

-


11,787

-


11,787




Boardman, OH

-

1,200

12,800

-

1,200

12,800

1,292



Boca Raton, FL

13,520


34,002

1,548


35,535

6,255



Boerne, TX

-


13,463

-


13,463




Bowling Green, KY

-

3,800

26,700


3,800

26,843

2,395



Boynton Beach, FL

4,507

2,048

7,692


2,048

7,896

1,855



Boynton Beach, FL

4,043

2,048

7,403


2,048

8,134

1,506



Boynton Beach, FL

10,187


11,235

1,009


12,236

2,053



Bridgeton, MO

-

-

30,221

-

-

30,221

-



Bridgeton, MO

11,649


21,221



21,223

1,209



Burleson, TX

-


11,619

-


11,619




Carmel, IN

-

2,280

18,820

-

2,280

18,820




Carmel, IN

-

2,152

18,591

-

2,152

18,591




Cedar Grove, WI

-



-






Claremore, OK

8,238


12,829



13,099

2,346



Clarkson Valley, MO

-

-

-

35,592

-

35,592

2,287



Coral Springs, FL

-

1,598

10,627


1,636

11,385

2,515



Corpus Christi, TX

-


3,923

-


3,923




Dade City, FL

-

1,211

5,511

-

1,211

5,511




Dallas, TX

15,212


28,690



29,282

5,268



Dayton, OH

-


6,515

-


6,515




Deerfield Beach, FL

3,873

2,408

7,482

-

2,408

7,482




Delray Beach, FL

-

1,882

34,767

4,288

1,941

38,996

7,722



Denton, TX

12,152

-

19,407


-

20,017

2,874



Durham, NC

-

5,350

9,320

-

5,350

9,320

2,867



Edina, MN

5,667


15,132

-


15,132




El Paso, TX

10,193


17,075

1,098


18,173

3,545



El Paso, TX

-


6,700

-


6,700




El Paso, TX

-


15,888



16,050

2,671



El Paso, TX

-

2,400

32,800


2,400

33,224

4,070



Everett, WA

-

4,842

26,010

-

4,842

26,010




Fayetteville, GA

3,262


7,540



8,104

1,577



Fort Wayne, IN

-


8,232

-


8,232




Fort Worth, TX

-


13,615

-


13,615




Franklin, TN

-

2,338

12,138


2,338

12,847

2,308



Franklin, WI

8,021

6,872

7,550

-

6,872

7,550




Fresno, CA

-

2,500

35,800


2,500

35,918

3,211



Frisco, TX

9,057

-

18,635


-

18,695

3,134



Frisco, TX

-

-

15,309

1,380

-

16,689

2,919



Gallatin, TN

-


19,432

-


19,432

1,416



Germantown, TN

-

3,049

12,456


3,049

13,017

2,264



Glendale, CA

8,126


18,398



18,402

3,092



Greeley, CO

-


6,707

-


6,707

1,366



Green Bay, WI

9,590

-

14,891

-

-

14,891




Green Bay, WI

-

-

20,098

-

-

20,098

1,225



Green Bay, WI

-

-

11,696

-

-

11,696




Greeneville, TN

-


10,032

-


10,032




Houston, TX

-

10,395

-

-

10,395

-

-


Jupiter, FL

7,106

2,252

11,415


2,252

11,488

2,443



Jupiter, FL

4,422

-

5,858

2,868

2,825

5,901

1,218



Kenosha, WI

9,886

-

18,058

-

-

18,058

1,098



Killeen, TX

-


22,667

-


22,667

1,000



Lafayette, LA

-

1,928

10,483


1,928

10,509

2,034



Lake St Louis, MO

-


11,937

1,947


13,884




Lakeway, TX

-

5,484

24,886

-

5,484

24,886




Lakeway, TX

-

2,801

-

-

2,801

-

-


-

Lakewood, CA

-


14,885



15,744

2,616



Las Vegas, NV

5,923


15,287



15,608

3,212



Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Year
  Acquired

Year
  Built

Las Vegas, NV

-


9,618

-


9,618

1,504



Las Vegas, NV

-

1,006

10,255

-

1,006

10,255

1,644



Las Vegas, NV

-

3,182

17,200

-

3,182

17,200

2,947



Las Vegas, NV

-

1,595

17,902

-

1,595

17,902

2,854



Las Vegas, NV

-

2,319

4,612


2,319

5,218




Las Vegas, NV

3,025

-

6,921



6,987

1,282



Las Vegas, NV

-

6,127

-

-

6,127

-

-


-

Las Vegas, NV

-


23,420

-


23,420




Lawrenceville, GA

-

2,279

10,732


2,305

10,827

2,132



Lawrenceville, GA

-

1,054

4,974


1,077

5,044

1,030



Lenexa, KS

12,177


16,013

1,730


17,743




Lincoln, NE

10,962

1,420

29,692

-

1,420

29,692

1,835



Los Alamitos, CA

16,067

-

18,635



18,979

3,158



Los Gatos, CA

-


22,386

1,055


23,440

4,561



Loxahatchee, FL

-

1,637

5,048


1,652

5,819

1,007



Loxahatchee, FL

-

1,340

6,509


1,345

6,537

1,257



Loxahatchee, FL

2,651

1,553

4,694


1,567

5,234




Malabar, FL

-

5,000

12,000

-

5,000

12,000




Marinette, WI

7,949

-

13,538

-

-

13,538




Marlton, NJ

-

-

38,300


-

38,507

3,435



Mechanicsburg, PA

-

1,350

16,650

-

1,350

16,650




Melbourne, FL

-

7,000

69,000

-

7,000

69,000

1,725



Melbourne, FL

-

1,400

24,400

-

1,400

24,400




Melbourne, FL

-


9,400

-


9,400




Melbourne, FL

-



-






Merced, CA

-

-

13,772


-

14,699




Meridian, ID

-

3,600

20,802


3,600

21,053

2,676



Merriam, KS

-


7,189

-


7,189




Merriam, KS

-


3,122

-


3,122




Merriam, KS

-


13,605

-


13,605




Merriam, KS

15,637


7,393

-


7,393




Merrillville, IN

-

-

22,134

-

-

22,134

2,327



Merrillville, IN

-


11,699



11,853

1,159



Mesa, AZ

-

1,558

9,561


1,558

9,829

1,985



Middletown, NY

-

1,756

20,364


1,756

20,932

5,148



Midwest City, OK

-


3,854

-


3,854




Milwaukee, WI

4,874


8,457

-


8,457




Milwaukee, WI

6,904

1,425

11,520

-

1,425

11,520




Milwaukee, WI

1,659


2,185

-


2,185




Milwaukee, WI

24,416

-

44,535

-

-

44,535

2,650



Morrow, GA

-


8,064



8,232

1,617



Mount Juliet, TN

4,849

1,566

11,697


1,566

12,251

2,180



Murrieta, CA

-

-

46,520

-

-

46,520

1,682



Murrieta, CA

-

8,800

202,412

-

8,800

202,412

3,333



Muskego, WI

1,727


2,159

-


2,159




Nashville , TN

-

1,806

7,165


1,806

8,153

1,890



Nashville, TN

-

4,300

-

7,148

11,448

-

-


-

New Berlin, WI

6,630

3,739

8,290

-

3,739

8,290




Niagara Falls, NY

-

1,145

10,574

-

1,145

10,574

2,324



Niagara Falls, NY

-


7,870

-


7,870

1,243



Orange Village, OH

-


7,419



7,473

1,693



Oro Valley, AZ

15,586


18,339



18,885

3,070



Oshkosh, WI

-

-

18,339

-

-

18,339

1,107



Oshkosh, WI

9,834

-

15,881

-

-

15,881




Palm Springs , CA

-


12,396

1,021


13,417

2,486



Palm Springs, FL

2,717


4,066



4,119




Palm Springs, FL

-

1,182

7,765


1,182

7,846

1,699



Palmer, AK

19,478

-

29,705



30,116

4,739



Pearland, TX

-


5,517



5,570

1,136



Pearland, TX

29,700


4,556



4,661




Pewaukee, WI

-

4,700

20,669

-

4,700

20,669

3,066



Phoenix, AZ

-

1,149

48,018

9,537

1,149

57,556

9,101



Pineville, NC

-


6,974

1,604

1,069

8,470

1,467



Plano, TX

-

5,423

20,752


5,423

20,770

4,487



Plano, TX

-


14,805



15,305

2,528



Plantation, FL

9,615

8,563

10,666

2,037

8,575

12,691

3,186



Plantation, FL

8,945

8,848

9,262


8,896

9,385

4,411



Plymouth, WI

1,722

1,250

1,870

-

1,250

1,870




Portland, ME

15,963

-

25,500

-

-

25,500




Raleigh, NC

-

1,486

11,200

-

1,486

11,200




Redmond, WA

-

5,015

26,697

-

5,015

26,697

1,025




Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Year
  Acquired

Year
  Built

Rolla, MO

-

1,931

48,224

-

1,931

48,224




Roswell, NM

1,921

-

5,900

-

-

5,900

-



Roswell, NM

5,358

-

16,500

-

-

16,500

-



Roswell, NM

-

-

17,880

-

-

17,880

-



Ruston, LA

-


9,790

-


9,790




Sacramento, CA

-


12,756



13,540

2,255



San Antonio, TX

-

2,050

16,251

1,473

2,050

17,724

4,636



San Antonio, TX

-

-

17,303

-

-

17,303

3,061



San Bernardino, CA

-

3,700

14,300


3,700

14,762

1,243



San Diego, CA

-

-

22,003

1,464

-

23,467

1,897



Sarasota, FL

-

3,360

19,140

-

3,360

19,140




Seattle, WA

-

4,410

35,787

-

4,410

35,787

1,439



Sewell, NJ

-

-

53,360

4,149

-

57,509

5,653



Shakopee, MN

7,090


11,360



11,368




Shakopee, MN

12,065


18,089

-


18,089




Sheboygan, WI

1,768

1,012

2,216

-

1,012

2,216




Somerville, NJ

-

3,400

22,244


3,400

22,246

1,901



St. Louis, MO

7,433

-

17,247

1,101


18,012

3,254



St. Paul, MN

26,460

2,681

39,507

-

2,681

39,507




Stafford, VA

-

-

11,260


-

11,564




Suffern, NY

-


35,220

-


35,220




Suffolk, VA

-

1,530

10,979


1,530

11,133




Summit, WI

-

2,899

87,666

-

2,899

87,666

8,277



Tallahassee, FL

-

-

14,719

-

-

14,719




Tampa, FL

-

4,319

12,234

-

4,319

12,234




Tomball, TX

-

1,404

5,071


1,404

5,709

1,443



Trussville, AL

-

1,336

2,177


1,351

2,301




Tucson, AZ

-

1,302

4,925


1,302

5,466

1,080



Tulsa, OK

-

3,003

6,025


3,003

6,045

1,631



Van Nuys, CA

-

-

36,187

-

-

36,187

2,187



Viera, FL

-

1,600

10,600

-

1,600

10,600




Virginia Beach, VA

-


18,289

-


18,289




Voorhees, NJ

-

6,404

24,251

1,248

6,404

25,499

4,038



Webster, TX

-


5,940

8,178

2,418

12,060

2,549



Wellington , FL

6,197

-

13,697



13,806

2,178



Wellington, FL

6,909


16,933



17,158

2,710



West Allis, WI

2,379

1,106

3,309

-

1,106

3,309




West Palm Beach, FL

6,819


14,740



14,861

2,774



West Palm Beach, FL

6,293


14,618



14,733

3,365



West Seneca, NY

12,357


22,435

1,296

1,447

23,201

4,013



Yorkville, IL

-

1,419

2,816


1,419

2,889




Zephyrhills, FL

-

3,875

23,907

-

3,875

23,907




Medical facilities total

519,055

296,220

3,330,098

121,590

311,196

3,436,705

333,535

Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Year
  Acquired

Year
  Built

Assets held for sale:

Austell, GA

$

-

$

2,223

$

5,582

$

-

$

2,223

$

5,582

$

-



Boynton Beach, FL

10,187


5,611

-


5,611

-



Chicago, IL

-

-

1,250

-

-

1,250

-



Okatie, SC

-


8,736

-


8,736

-



Norwalk, CT

-


2,640

-


2,640

-



Tempe, AZ

-

-

9,277

-

-

9,277

-



Assets held for sale total

10,187

3,018

33,097

-

3,018

33,097

-

(1) Represents real property asset associated with a capital
  lease.


Initial
  Cost to Company

Gross
  Amount at Which Carried at Close of Period

Segment

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Cost
  Capitalized Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Buildings
  & Improvements

Accumulated
  Depreciation

Seniors housing triple-net

$

258,600

$

575,231

$

6,992,506

$

293,078

$

576,701

$

7,284,115

$

642,910

Seniors housing operating

1,317,849

223,614

2,678,007

108,366

228,859

2,781,126

218,031

Medical facilities

519,055

296,220

3,330,098

121,590

311,196

3,436,705

333,535

Construction in progress

-

-

189,502

-

-

189,502

-

Total continuing operating properties

2,095,504

1,095,065

13,190,113

523,034

1,116,756

13,691,448

1,194,476

Assets held for sale

10,187

3,018

33,097

-

3,018

33,097

-

Total investments in real property owned

2,105,691

1,098,083

13,223,210

523,034

1,119,774

13,724,545

1,194,476

Year
  Ended December 31,




Reconciliation of real property:

(in
  thousands)

Investment in real estate:

Balance at beginning of year

$

8,992,495

$

6,336,291

$

5,979,575

Additions:

Acquisitions

4,525,737

1,707,421

67,673

Improvements

426,000

398,510

590,394

Conversions from loans receivable

-

10,070

-

Assumed other items, net

210,411

208,314

-

Assumed debt

961,928

559,508

-

Purchase price adjustments

-

-


Total additions

6,124,076

2,883,823

658,732

Deductions:

Cost of real estate sold

(250,047)

(216,300)

(260,956)

Reclassification of accumulated depreciation and amortization
  for assets held for sale

(10,011)

(10,372)

(15,837)

Impairment of assets

(12,194)

(947)

(25,223)

Total deductions

(272,252)

(227,619)

(302,016)

Balance at end of year

(2)

$

14,844,319

$

8,992,495

$

6,336,291

Accumulated depreciation:

Balance at beginning of year

$

836,966

$

677,851

$

600,781

Additions:

Depreciation and amortization expenses

423,605

202,543

164,923

Amortization of above market leases

6,409

2,524

2,061

Total additions

430,014

205,067

166,984

Deductions:

Sale of properties

(63,997)

(31,919)

(74,244)

Reclassification of accumulated depreciation and amortization
  for assets held for sale

(8,507)

(14,033)

(15,670)

Total deductions

(72,504)

(45,952)

(89,914)

Balance at end of year

$

1,194,476

$

836,966

$

677,851

(2) The aggregate cost for
  tax purposes for real property equals $13,604,448,000, $8,802,656,000 and
  $6,378,056,000 at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.


Health
  Care REIT, Inc.

Schedule
  IV - Mortgage Loans on Real Estate

December
  31, 2011

(in
  thousands)

Description

Interest
  Rate

Final
  Maturity Date

Monthly
  Payment Terms

Prior
  Liens

Face
  Amount of Mortgages

Carrying
  Amount of Mortgages

Principal
  Amount of Loans Subject to Delinquent Principal or Interest

First mortgage relating to one hospital in California

8.42%

12/01/17

$122,722

$

-

$

17,500

$

17,500

$

-

First mortgage relating to one hospital in California

9.89%

06/01/20

$153,140

-

17,500

13,906

-

First mortgage relating to one seniors housing facility in North
  Carolina

7.86%

04/30/15

$51,384

-

7,000

6,637

-

First mortgage relating to one medical office building in
  Georgia

6.50%

10/01/14

$38,556

-

6,100

6,083

-

First mortgage relating to one hospital in California

9.63%

01/14/14

$156,038

-

8,045

1,834

-

First mortgage relating to one seniors housing facility in
  Arizona

3.55%

01/01/13

$12,511

-

4,500

4,151

4,151

First mortgage relating to one senior housing facility in Texas

10.00%

09/01/12

$21,957

-

2,635

2,635

-

Two first mortgages relating to one medical office building in
  Georgia and one senior housing facility in Massachusetts

From
  8.11% to 12.00%

From
  1/1/12 to 10/1/14

From
  $773 to $2,000

-

1,000


-

Second mortgage relating to one hospital in California

9.48%

10/31/13

$138,048

13,906

13,000

2,778

-

Second mortgage relating to one seniors housing facility in
  Wisconsin

15.21%

01/15/15

$41,250

7,792

3,300

3,300

-

Second mortgage relating to one senior housing facility in New
  Hampshire

12.17%

10/01/16

$13,945


3,235

2,701

-

Second mortgage relating to one hospital in Massachusetts

12.17%

06/30/10

$16,900

4,100

2,243

2,093

2,093

Totals

$

26,468

$

86,058

$

63,934

$

6,244

Year
  Ended December 31,




Reconciliation of mortgage loans:

(in
  thousands)

Balance at beginning of year

$

109,283

$

74,517

$

137,292

Additions:

New mortgage loans

11,286

73,439

9,456

Total additions

11,286

73,439

9,456

Deductions:

Collections of principal

(50,579)

(10,540)

(54,696)

Conversions to real property

(4,000)

(10,070)

-

Charge-offs

-

(18,063)

(17,535)

Reclass to other real estate loans

(2,056)

-

-

Total deductions

(56,635)

(38,673)

(72,231)

Balance at end of year

$

63,934

$

109,283

$

74,517


EXHIBIT INDEX

1.1(a)     Form of Equity
Distribution Agreement, dated as of November 12, 2010, entered into by and
between the Company and each of UBS Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc.,
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc. (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 1.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 15,
2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

1.1(b)     Form of Amendment No. 1,
dated September 1, 2011, to the Equity Distribution Agreements entered into by
and between the Company and each of UBS Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc.,
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc. (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 1.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 8,
2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(a)     Second Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(b)     Certificate of
Designation, Preferences and Rights of Junior Participating Preferred Stock,
Series A, of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).

3.1(c)      Certificate of Amendment
of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(d)     Certificate of Amendment
of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed June 13, 2003 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(e)      Certificate of
Designation of 7 7/8% Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of the
Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 2.5 to the Company’s Form 8-A/A
filed July 8, 2003 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

3.1(f)      Certificate of
Designation of 7 5/8% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of the
Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 2.5 to the Company’s Form 8-A
filed September 10, 2004 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

3.1(g)      Certificate of Amendment
of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 3.9 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 9, 2007 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(h)     Certificate of Change of
Location of Registered Office and of Registered Agent of the Company (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 6,
2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(i)       Certificate of
Designation of 6% Series H Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred
Stock of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

3.1(j)      Certificate of
Designation of 6.50% Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock
of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed March 7, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

3.1(k)     Certificate of Amendment
of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 10, 2011 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


3.2          Fourth
Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 1, 2011 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(a)     Indenture for Senior Debt
Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third
Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
September 9, 2002 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

4.1(b)     Supplemental Indenture No.
1, dated as of September 6, 2002, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities,
dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 9,
2002 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(c)      Amendment No. 1, dated
March 12, 2003, to Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of September 6, 2002,
to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between
the Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to
the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 14, 2003 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(d)     Supplemental Indenture No.
2, dated as of September 10, 2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities,
dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September
24, 2003 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(e)      Amendment No. 1, dated
September 16, 2003, to Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of September 10,
2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002,
between the Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
4.4 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 24, 2003 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(f)      Supplemental Indenture
No. 3, dated as of October 29, 2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities,
dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed October 30,
2003 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(g)      Amendment No. 1, dated
September 13, 2004, to Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of October 29,
2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002,
between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor
to Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s
Form 8-K filed September 13, 2004 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein
by reference thereto).

4.1(h)     Supplemental Indenture No.
4, dated as of April 27, 2005, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated
as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed April 28, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

4.1(i)       Supplemental Indenture
No. 5, dated as of November 30, 2005, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities,
dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s
Form 8-K filed November 30, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein
by reference thereto).

4.2(a)     Indenture, dated as of
November 20, 2006, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company,
N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
November 20, 2006 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

4.2(b)     Supplemental Indenture No.
1, dated as of November 20, 2006, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s
Form 8-K filed November 20, 2006 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein
by reference thereto).

4.2(c)      Supplemental Indenture No.
2, dated as of July 20, 2007, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s
Form 8-K filed July 20, 2007 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).


4.3(a)     Indenture,
dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s
Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

4.3(b)     Supplemental Indenture No.
1, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).

4.3(c)      Amendment No. 1 to
Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of June 18, 2010, between the
Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
June 18, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

4.3(d)     Supplemental Indenture No.
2, dated as of April 7, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed April 7, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).

4.3(e)      Amendment No. 1 to
Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of June 8, 2010, between the
Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
June 8, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

4.3(f)      Supplemental Indenture
No. 3, dated as of September 10, 2010, between the Company and The
Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 13, 2010
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.3(g)      Supplemental Indenture
No. 4, dated as of November 16, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2
to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 16, 2010 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.3(h)     Supplemental Indenture
No. 5, dated as of March 14, 2011, between the Company and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 14, 2011 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.4          Form of Indenture for
Senior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.9
to the Company’s Form S-3 (File No. 333-73936) filed November 21, 2001, and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.5          Form of Indenture for
Junior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.10
to the Company’s Form S-3 (File No. 333-73936) filed November 21, 2001, and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

10.1        Fifth Amended and
Restated Loan Agreement, dated as of July 27, 2011, by and among the Company,
the banks signatory thereto, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as joint lead arrangers and joint
book managers, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc., as a joint lead arranger, Deutsche
Bank Securities Inc., as a joint lead arranger and documentation agent, KeyBank
National Association, as administrative agent, and Bank of America, N.A. and
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as co-syndication agents (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed August 2, 2011 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

10.2        Equity Purchase
Agreement, dated as of February 28, 2011, by and among the Company, FC-GEN
Investment, LLC and FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
February 28, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

10.3        Health Care REIT, Inc.
Interest Rate & Currency Risk Management Policy adopted on May 6, 2004
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
July 23, 2004 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

10.4(a)   The 1995 Stock Incentive
Plan of Health Care REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Appendix II to the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed
September 29, 1995 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*


10.4(b)   First
Amendment to the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan of Health Care REIT, Inc. (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form S-8 (File No.
333-40771) filed November 21, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*

10.4(c)   Second Amendment to the
1995 Stock Incentive Plan of Health Care REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form S-8 (File No. 333-73916) filed November
21, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.4(d)   Third Amendment to the 1995
Stock Incentive Plan of Health Care REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.15 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 12, 2004 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.4(e)   Form of Stock Option
Agreement for Executive Officers under the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 10.17 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 16,
2005 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.5(a)   Stock Plan for Non-Employee
Directors of Health Care REIT, Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1
to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2004 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.5(b)   First Amendment to the
Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Health Care REIT, Inc. effective April
21, 1998 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q
filed May 10, 2004 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*

10.5(c)   Form of Stock Option
Agreement under the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q/A filed October 27, 2004
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.6(a)   Amended and Restated Health
Care REIT, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as
Appendix A to the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, filed March 25, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein
by reference thereto).*

10.6(b)   Form of Stock Option
Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for the Chief Executive Officer
under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.18 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.6(c)   Form of Amendment to Stock
Option Agreements (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for the Chief Executive
Officer under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.6(d)   Form of Stock Option
Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for the Chief Executive Officer
under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.8 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.6(e)   Form of Stock Option
Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive Officers under the
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.19 to
the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.6(f)    Form of Amendment to Stock
Option Agreements (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive Officers
under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.7 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.6(g)   Form of Stock Option
Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive Officers under the
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.9 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.6(h)   Form of Stock Option
Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for the Chief Executive Officer
under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.20 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


10.6(i)    Form
of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for the Chief
Executive Officer under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May
10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.6(j)    Form of Stock Option
Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive Officers under the
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.21 to
the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.6(k)   Form of Stock Option
Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive Officers under the
Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.6(l)    Form of Restricted Stock
Agreement for the Chief Executive Officer under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive
Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.22 to the Company’s Form 10-K
filed March 10, 2006 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*

10.6(m)  Form of Restricted Stock
Agreement for Executive Officers under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 10.23 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10,
2006 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.6(n)   Form of Restricted Stock
Agreement for the Chief Executive Officer under the Amended and Restated 2005
Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.6(o)   Form of Restricted Stock
Agreement for Executive Officers under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Form
10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*

10.6(p)   Form of Deferred Stock Unit
Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive
Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.24 to the Company’s Form 10-K
filed March 10, 2006 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*

10.6(q)   Form of Amendment to
Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreements for Non-Employee Directors under the 2005
Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.10 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.6(r)    Form of Deferred Stock
Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.11 to the Company’s
Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*

10.6(s)    Form of Deferred Stock
Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the Amended and Restated
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.5 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein
by reference thereto).*

10.7        Fifth Amended and
Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 2, 2010, by and between the
Company and George L. Chapman (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed December 8, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.8        Second Amended and
Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 29, 2008, between the Company and
Scott A. Estes (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*

10.9        Second Amended and
Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 29, 2008, between the Company and
Charles J. Herman, Jr. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.10      Amended
and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 29, 2008, between the Company
and Jeffrey H. Miller (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.8 to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed March 2, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.11      Employment Agreement,
dated January 19, 2009, between the Company and John T. Thomas (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.10 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 2, 2009
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.12      Third Amended and Restated
Employment Agreement, dated December 29, 2008, between the Company and Erin C.
Ibele (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.11 to the Company’s Form 10-K
filed March 2, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*

10.13      Second Amended and
Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 29, 2008, between the Company and
Daniel R. Loftus (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.12 to the Company’s
Form 10-K filed March 2, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*

10.14      Amended and Restated
Consulting Agreement, dated December 29, 2008, between the Company and Fred S.
Klipsch (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Form 8-K
filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*

10.15      Amended and Restated
Consulting Agreement, dated December 29, 2008, between the Company and
Frederick L. Farrar (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.14 to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed March 2, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.16      Amended and Restated Health
Care REIT, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, dated December 29, 2008
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.12 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*

10.17      Form of Indemnification
Agreement between the Company and each director, executive officer and officer
of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed February 18, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*

10.18      Summary of Director
Compensation (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.17 to the Company’s Form
10-K filed February 25, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*

12           Statement Regarding
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Ratio of Earnings to
Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends (Unaudited).

14           Code of Business Conduct
and Ethics (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 14 to the Company’s Form 10-K
filed March 12, 2004 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

Subsidiaries of the Company.

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting
firm.

24.1        Power
of Attorney executed by William C. Ballard, Jr. (Director).

24.2        Power
of Attorney executed by Pier C. Borra (Director).

24.3        Power
of Attorney executed by Daniel A. Decker (Director).

24.4        Power
of Attorney executed by Thomas J. DeRosa (Director).

24.5        Power
of Attorney executed by Jeffrey H. Donahue (Director).

24.6        Power
of Attorney executed by Peter J. Grua (Director).

24.7        Power
of Attorney executed by Fred S. Klipsch (Director).

24.8        Power of Attorney executed by Sharon M. Oster
(Director).

24.9        Power
of Attorney executed by Jeffrey R. Otten (Director).

24.10      Power
of Attorney executed by R. Scott Trumbull (Director).

24.11      Power of Attorney executed
by George L. Chapman (Director, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer
and President and Principal Executive Officer).

24.12      Power of Attorney executed
by Scott A. Estes (Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and
Principal Financial Officer).

24.13      Power of Attorney executed
by Paul D. Nungester, Jr. (Senior Vice President and Controller and Principal
Accounting Officer).

31.1        Rule
13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.

31.2        Rule
13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.

32.1        Certification
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Executive Officer.

32.2        Certification
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Financial Officer.

101.INS     XBRL Instance
Document**

101.SCH   XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Schema Document**

101.CAL   XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Calculation Linkbase Document**

101.LAB   XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Label Linkbase Document**

101.PRE    XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Presentation Linkbase Document**

101.DEF    XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Definition Linkbase Document**

*

Management
  Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.

**

Attached
  as Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the following
  materials, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language):
  (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
  (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December
  31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Equity for
  the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, (iv) the Consolidated
  Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
  2009, (v) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, (vi) Schedule
  III – Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation and (vii) Schedule IV –
  Mortgage Loans on Real Estate.

Pursuant
  to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the Interactive Data Files on Exhibit 101
  hereto are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus
  for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
  are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and
  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability
  under those sections.