10-K


10-K.htm

10-K

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM
10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31,

Commission File No. 1-8923

WELLTOWER
INC.

(Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

34-1096634

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

(419) 247-2800

(Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each
  Class

Name of Each
  Exchange on Which Registered

Common
  Stock, $1.00 par value

New
  York Stock Exchange

6.50%
  Series I Cumulative

Convertible
  Perpetual Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value

New
  York Stock Exchange

6.50%
  Series J Cumulative

Redeemable
  Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value

New
  York Stock Exchange

4.800%
  Notes due 2028

New
  York Stock Exchange

4.500%
  Notes due 2034

New
  York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes

☑

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or 15(d) of the Act.  Yes

o

No

☑

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes

☑

No

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405
of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes

☑

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

R

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller
reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

☑

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes

o

No

☑

The
aggregate market value of the shares of voting common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing sales
price of such shares on the New York Stock Exchange as of the last business day
of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter was
$23,029,716,957.

As of
January 31, 2016, the registrant had 355,140,936 shares of common stock
outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions
of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the annual stockholders’ meeting
to be held May 5, 2016, are incorporated by reference into Part III.

WELLTOWER
INC.

2015 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT


Page

PART I

Item
  1.

Business


Item
  1A.

Risk
  Factors


Item
  1B.

Unresolved
  Staff Comments


Item
  2.

Properties


Item
  3.

Item
  4.

Legal
  Proceedings

Mine
  Safety Disclosures



PART II

Item
  5.

Market
  for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
  Purchases of Equity Securities


Item
  6.

Selected
  Financial Data


Item
  7.

Management’s
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


Item
  7A.

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


Item
  8.

Financial
  Statements and Supplementary Data


Item
  9.

Changes
  in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


Item
  9A.

Controls
  and Procedures


Item
  9B.

Other
  Information


PART III

Item
  10.

Directors,

Executive Officers and Corporate Governance


Item
  11.

Executive
  Compensation


Item
  12.

Security
  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
  Matters


Item
  13.

Certain

Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence


Item
  14.

Principal
  Accounting Fees and Services


PART IV

Item
  15.

Exhibits

and Financial Statement Schedules


PART I

Item 1.

Business

General

Welltower
Inc. (NYSE:HCN), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is
driving the transformation of health care infrastructure.  The Company invests
with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems
to fund real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery
models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience.  Welltower

TM

,
a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns properties in major, high-growth
markets in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom, consisting of
seniors housing and post-acute communities and outpatient medical properties. 
Our capital programs, when combined with comprehensive planning, development
and property management services, make us a single-source solution for
acquiring, planning, developing, managing, repositioning and monetizing real
estate assets.  More information is available on the Internet at www.welltower.com. 
The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual
reference only.

Our
primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder
value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create
opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of
annual increases in net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these
objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health
care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type,
relationship and geographic location.

Depending
upon the availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is
sufficient to fund operations, meet debt service obligations (both principal
and interest), make dividend distributions and complete construction projects
in process. We also continuously evaluate opportunities to finance future
investments. New investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings
under our primary unsecured credit facility, internally generated cash and the
proceeds from investment dispositions. Our investments generate cash from net
operating income and principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent financing
for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under our primary unsecured
credit facility, has historically been provided through a combination of the
issuance of public debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption
of secured debt.

References
herein to “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” refer to Welltower Inc. and its
subsidiaries unless specifically noted otherwise.

Portfolio of Properties

Please
see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operation – Executive Summary – Company Overview” for a table that
summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2015.

Property Types

We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate and
evaluate our business on three reportable segments: triple-net, seniors housing
operating and outpatient medical.

For additional information
regarding our segments, please see Note 17 to our consolidated financial
statements.

The accounting policies of the segments
are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting
policies in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.

The
following is a summary of our various property types.

Triple-Net

Our
triple-net properties include independent living facilities and independent
supportive living facilities (Canada), continuing care retirement communities,
assisted living facilities, care homes with and without nursing (United
Kingdom), Alzheimer’s/dementia care facilities, long-term/post-acute care
facilities and hospitals. We invest primarily through acquisitions, development
and joint venture partnerships. Our properties are primarily leased to
operators under long-term, triple-net master leases. We are not involved in
property management.  Our properties include stand-alone facilities that
provide one level of service, combination facilities that provide multiple
levels of service, and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of
services.

Independent
Living Facilities and Independent Supportive Living Facilities (Canada).

Independent
living facilities and independent supportive living facilities are
age-restricted, multifamily properties with central dining facilities that
provide residents access to meals and other services such as housekeeping,
linen service, transportation and social and recreational activities.

Continuing
Care Retirement Communities.

Continuing care
retirement communities typically include a combination of detached homes, an
independent living facility, an assisted living facility and/or a
long-term/post-acute care facility on one campus. These communities appeal to
residents because there is no need to relocate when health and medical needs
change. Resident payment plans


vary, but can include
entrance fees, condominium fees and rental fees. Many of these communities also
charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some
health services.

Assisted
Living Facilities

.  Assisted living facilities are state regulated rental
properties that provide the same services as independent living facilities, but
also provide supportive care from trained employees to residents who require
assistance with activities of daily living, including, but not limited to,
management of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting, ambulating and eating.

Care
Homes with Nursing (United Kingdom)

.  Care homes with nursing,
regulated by the Care Quality Commission are licensed daily rate or rental
properties where the majority of individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or
medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for various national and
local reimbursement programs.  Unlike the U.S., care homes with nursing in the
U.K. generally do not provide post-acute care.

Care
Homes (United Kingdom)

.  Care homes, regulated by the Care
Quality Commission, are rental properties that provide essentially the same
services as U.S. assisted living facilities.

Alzheimer’s/Dementia
Care Facilities.

Certain assisted living facilities may include
state-licensed settings that specialize in caring for those afflicted with
Alzheimer’s disease and/or other types of dementia.

Long-Term/Post-Acute
Care Facilities

.  Our long-term/post-acute care facilities generally include
skilled nursing/post-acute care facilities, inpatient rehabilitation facilities
and long-term acute care facilities.  Skilled nursing/post-acute care
facilities are licensed daily rate or rental properties where the majority of
individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these
properties are licensed for Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement in the U.S.
or provincial reimbursement in Canada.  All facilities offer some level of
rehabilitation services.  Some facilities focus on higher acuity patients and
offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac, orthopedic, dialysis,
neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation.  Inpatient rehabilitation facilities
provide inpatient services for patients with intensive rehabilitation needs. 
Long-term acute care facilities provide inpatient services for patients with
complex medical conditions that require more intensive care, monitoring or
emergency support than is available in most skilled nursing/post-acute care
facilities.

Hospitals

. 
Hospitals are acute care facilities that provide a wide range of inpatient
and/or outpatient services, including, but not limited to, surgery,
rehabilitation, therapy and clinical laboratories.

Our triple-net segment
accounted for 31%, 31% and 31% of total revenues (including discontinued
operations) for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013,
respectively.  We lease 187 facilities to Genesis Healthcare, LLC, an operator
of long-term/post-acute care facilities, pursuant to a long-term, triple-net
master lease.  In addition to rent, the master lease requires Genesis to pay
all operating costs, utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs,
maintenance costs and all obligations under certain ground leases.  All
obligations under the master lease have been guaranteed by FC-GEN Operations
Investment, LLC, a subsidiary of Genesis Healthcare, LLC.  For the year ended
December 31, 2015, our lease with Genesis accounted for approximately 31% of
our triple-net segment revenues and 10% of our total revenues.

Seniors
Housing Operating

Our
seniors housing operating properties include several of the facility types
described in “Item 1 – Business – Property Types – Triple-Net”, including
independent living facilities and independent supportive living facilities,
assisted living facilities, care homes and Alzheimer’s/dementia care
facilities.

Properties
are primarily held in consolidated joint venture entities with operating
partners. We utilize the structure proposed in the REIT Investment
Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007, which is commonly referred to as a
“RIDEA” structure (the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code authorizing the
RIDEA structure were enacted as part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act
of 2008).  See Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements for more
information.

Our seniors housing
operating segment accounted for 56%, 57% and 59% of total revenues (including
discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013,
respectively.  We have relationships with 14 operators to own and operate 388 facilities
(plus 54 unconsolidated facilities).  In each instance, our partner provides
management services to the properties pursuant to an incentive-based management
contract.  We rely on our partners to effectively and efficiently manage these
properties.  For the year ended December 31, 2015, our relationship with
Sunrise Senior Living accounted for approximately 44% of our seniors housing
operating segment revenues and 25% of our total revenues.

Outpatient
Medical


Our outpatient
medical properties include outpatient medical buildings and, prior to June 30,
2015, life science facilities.  We typically lease our outpatient medical
buildings to multiple tenants and provide varying levels of property
management.  Our life science investment represented an investment in an
unconsolidated joint venture entity.  Our outpatient medical segment accounted
for 13%, 12% and 13% of total revenues (including discontinued operations) for
the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  No single
tenant exceeds 20% of segment revenues.

Outpatient
Medical Buildings

.  The outpatient medical building portfolio consists of health
care related buildings that generally include physician offices, ambulatory
surgery centers, diagnostic facilities, outpatient services and/or labs. Our
portfolio has a strong affiliation with health systems. Approximately 95% of
our outpatient medical building portfolio is affiliated with health systems (with
buildings on hospital campuses or serving as satellite locations for the health
system and its physicians).

Life
Science Facilities

.  The life science portfolio consisted of laboratory and office
facilities specifically designed and constructed for use by biotechnology and
pharmaceutical companies.  These facilities were located adjacent to The
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which is a well-established market known
for pharmaceutical and biotechnology research. They are similar to commercial
office buildings with advanced HVAC (heating, ventilation and air conditioning),
electrical and mechanical systems. On June 30, 2015, we disposed of our life
science investments.

Investments

Depending
upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in
the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate
returns to our stockholders.  We invest in seniors housing and health care real
estate primarily through acquisitions, developments and joint venture
partnerships. For additional information regarding acquisition and development
activity, please see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.  We
diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and
geographic location. In determining whether to invest in a property, we focus
on the following: (1) the experience of the obligor’s/partner’s management
team; (2) the historical and projected financial and operational
performance of the property; (3) the credit of the obligor/partner;
(4) the security for any lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of
the building and its location; (6) the capital committed to the property
by the obligor/partner; and (7) the operating fundamentals of the applicable
industry. We conduct market research and analysis for all potential
investments. In addition, we review the value of all properties, the interest
rates and covenant requirements of any facility-level debt to be assumed at the
time of the acquisition and the anticipated sources of repayment of any
existing debt that is not to be assumed at the time of the acquisition.

We
monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of
property. Our proactive and comprehensive asset management process for seniors
housing properties generally includes review of monthly financial statements
and other operating data for each property, review of obligor/partner
creditworthiness, property inspections, and review of covenant compliance
relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other
collateral. Our internal property management division actively manages and
monitors the outpatient medical portfolio with a comprehensive process
including review of, among other things, tenant relations, lease expirations,
the mix of health service providers, hospital/health system relationships,
property performance, capital improvement needs, and market conditions. In
monitoring our portfolio, our personnel use a proprietary database to collect
and analyze property-specific data. Additionally, we conduct extensive research
to ascertain industry trends.

We
evaluate the operating environment in each property’s market to determine the
likely trend in operating performance of the facility.  When we identify
unacceptable trends, we seek to mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk.
Through these efforts, we are generally able to intervene at an early stage to
address any negative trends, and in so doing, support both the collectability
of revenue and the value of our investment.

Investment Types

Real Property.

Our
properties are primarily comprised of land, buildings, improvements and related
rights.  Our triple-net properties are generally leased to operators under
long-term operating leases.  The leases generally have a fixed contractual term
of 12 to 15 years and contain one or more five to 15-year renewal options.
Certain of our leases also contain purchase options, a portion of which could
result in the disposition of properties for less than full market value.  Most
of our rents are received under triple-net leases requiring the operator to pay
rent and all additional charges incurred in the operation of the leased
property. The tenants are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the leased
properties. Substantially all of these operating leases are designed with
escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are
generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period,
subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with
contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual cash
rental payments due for the period.

At
December 31, 2015, approximately 92% of our triple-net properties were subject
to master leases. A master lease is a lease of multiple properties to one
tenant entity under a single lease agreement. From time to time, we may acquire
additional properties that are then leased to the tenant under the master
lease. The tenant is required to make one monthly payment that represents rent
on all the properties that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the
master lease tenant can exercise its right to purchase the properties or to
renew the master lease only with respect to all leased properties at the same
time. This bundling feature benefits us because the tenant


cannot
limit the purchase or renewal to the better performing properties and terminate
the leasing arrangement with respect to the poorer performing properties. This
spreads our risk among the entire group of properties within the master lease.
The bundling feature should provide a similar advantage to us if the master
lease tenant is in bankruptcy. Subject to certain restrictions, a debtor in
bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject each of its leases. It is our
intent that a tenant in bankruptcy would be required to assume or reject the
master lease as a whole, rather than deciding on a property by property basis.

Our
outpatient medical portfolio is primarily self-managed and consists principally
of multi-tenant properties leased to health care providers. Our leases typically
include increasers and some form of operating expense reimbursement by the
tenant. As of December 31, 2015, 82% of our portfolio included leases with full
pass through, 15% with a partial expense reimbursement (modified gross) and 3% with
no expense reimbursement (gross). Our outpatient medical leases are
non-cancellable operating leases that have a weighted-average remaining term of
seven years at December 31, 2015 and are often credit enhanced by security
deposits, guaranties and/or letters of credit.

Construction.

We occasionally
provide for the construction of properties for tenants as part of long-term
operating leases. We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds
used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is
based upon the amount advanced during the construction period using the rate of
interest that approximates our company-wide cost of financing. Our interest
expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. We also typically charge a
transaction fee at the commencement of construction which we defer and amortize
to income over the term of the resulting lease. The construction period
commences upon funding and terminates upon the earlier of the completion of the
applicable property or the end of a specified period. During the construction
period, we advance funds to the tenants in accordance with agreed upon terms
and conditions which require, among other things, periodic site visits by a
Company representative. During the construction period, we generally require an
additional credit enhancement in the form of payment and performance bonds
and/or completion guaranties. At December 31, 2015, we had outstanding
construction investments of $258,968,000 and were committed to provide
additional funds of approximately $525,588,000 to complete construction for
investment properties.

Real Estate Loans.

Our
real estate loans are typically structured to provide us with interest income,
principal amortization and transaction fees and are generally secured by
first/second mortgage liens, leasehold mortgages, corporate guaranties and/or
personal guaranties. At December 31, 2015, we had outstanding real estate loans
of $819,492,000.  The interest yield averaged approximately 8.1% per annum on
our outstanding real estate loan balances. Our yield on real estate loans
depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, average
principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate
adjustments. The real estate loans outstanding at December 31, 2015 are
generally subject to one to 15-year terms with principal amortization schedules
and/or balloon payments of the outstanding principal balances at the end of the
term. Typically, real estate loans are cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized
with other real estate loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the
obligor and its affiliates.

Investments in
Unconsolidated Entities

. Investments in entities that we do not consolidate
but have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and
financial policies are reported under the equity method of accounting.  Our
investments in unconsolidated entities generally represent interests ranging
from 10% to 50% in real estate assets.  Under the equity method of accounting,
our share of the investee’s earnings or losses is included in our consolidated
results of operations. To the extent that our cost basis is different from the
basis reflected at the entity level, the basis difference is generally
amortized over the lives of the related assets and liabilities, and such
amortization is included in our share of equity in earnings of the entity.  The
initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on
the amount paid to purchase the entity interest or the estimated fair value of
the assets prior to the sale of interests in the entity. We evaluate our equity
method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair
value of the equity method investment to its carrying value. When we determine
a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying
value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.  See Note 7 to our
consolidated financial statements for more information.

Principles of Consolidation

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned
subsidiaries and joint venture entities that we control, through voting rights
or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated in consolidation.

At
inception of joint venture transactions, we identify entities for which control
is achieved through means other than voting rights (“variable interest
entities” or “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary
beneficiary of its operations. A VIE is broadly defined as an entity where
either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling
financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient
to finance that entity’s activities without additional subordinated financial
support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the
primary beneficiary.  Accounting Standards Codification Topic 810,

Consolidations

,

requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining
whether or not a VIE will need to be consolidated on a continuous basis. This
evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the
activities of a VIE that most significantly impact that entity’s economic
performance.


For investments in joint ventures, we evaluate the type of rights
held by the limited partner(s), which may preclude consolidation in
circumstances in which the sole general partner would otherwise consolidate the
limited partnership. The assessment of limited partners’ rights and their
impact on the presumption of control over a limited partnership by the sole
general partner should be made when an investor becomes the sole general partner and should be reassessed if (i) there is a change to the terms or in the
exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, (ii) the sole
general

partner increases or decreases its ownership in the limited partnership, or
(iii) there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding
limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing
members of limited liability companies.

Borrowing Policies

We
utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments. Our debt and
equity levels are determined by management to maintain a conservative credit
profile. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed-rate public debt with
long-term maturities to approximate the maturities on our triple-net leases and
loans. For short-term purposes, we may borrow on our primary unsecured credit
facility. We replace these borrowings with long-term capital such as senior
unsecured notes, common stock or preferred stock. When terms are deemed
favorable, we may invest in properties subject to existing mortgage
indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for unleveraged
properties in which we have invested or may refinance properties acquired on a
leveraged basis. In certain agreements with our lenders, we are subject to
restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.

Competition

We
compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships,
private equity and hedge fund investors, banks, insurance companies,
finance/investment companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and
tax-exempt bond funds, health care operators, developers and other investors in
the acquisition, development, leasing and financing of health care and seniors
housing properties. We compete for investments based on a number of factors
including relationships, certainty of execution, investment structures and
underwriting criteria. Our ability to successfully compete is impacted by
economic and demographic trends, availability of acceptable investment
opportunities, our ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms,
availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs and
applicable laws and regulations.

The
operators/tenants of our properties compete with properties that provide
comparable services in the local markets. Operators/tenants compete for
patients and residents based on a number of factors including quality of care,
reputation, physical appearance of properties, location, services offered,
family preferences, physicians, staff and price. We also face competition from
other health care facilities for tenants, such as physicians and other health
care providers that provide comparable facilities and services.

For
additional information on the risks associated with our business, please see
“Item 1A — Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

As of January 31, 2016, we had 476 employees.

Credit Concentrations

Please see Note 8 to our
consolidated financial statements.

Geographic Concentrations

Please see “Item 2 –
Properties” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 17 to our
consolidated financial statements.

Health Care Industry

The
demand for health care services, and consequently health care properties, is
projected to reach unprecedented levels in the near future. The Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) projects that national health
expenditures will rise to approximately $3.4 trillion in 2016 or 18.1% of gross
domestic product (“GDP”). The average annual growth in national health
expenditures for 2014 through 2024 is expected to be 5.8%.

While demographics are
the primary driver of demand, economic conditions and availability of services
contribute to health care service utilization rates. We believe the health care
property market may be less susceptible to fluctuations and economic downturns
relative to other property sectors. Investor interest in the market remains
strong, especially in specific sectors such as private-pay senior living and
outpatient medical buildings.

The total U.S.
population for 2014 through 2024 is projected to increase by 9.1%. The elderly
population aged 65 and over is projected to increase by 40% through 2024. The
elderly are an important component of health care utilization, especially
independent living services, assisted living services, long-term/post-acute
care services, inpatient and outpatient hospital services and physician
ambulatory care. Most health care services are provided within a health care
facility such as a hospital, a physician’s office or a seniors housing
community. Therefore, we believe there will be continued demand for companies,
such as ours, with expertise in health care real estate.


Health
care real estate investment opportunities tend to increase as demand for health
care services increases.  We recognize the need for health care real estate as
it correlates to health care service demand.  Health care providers require
real estate to house their businesses and expand their services.  We believe
that investment opportunities in health care real estate will continue to be
present due to:

·

The specialized nature of the industry, which enhances the
credibility and experience of the Company;

·

The projected population growth combined with stable or increasing
health care utilization rates, which ensures demand; and

·

The on-going merger and acquisition activity.

Certain Government
Regulations

United States

Health
Law Matters — Generally

Typically, operators of seniors housing facilities do not receive significant
funding from government programs and are largely subject to state laws, as
opposed to federal laws.  Operators of long-term/post-acute care facilities and
hospitals do receive significant funding from government programs, and these
facilities are subject to the federal and state laws that regulate the type and
quality of the medical and/or nursing care provided, ancillary services (

e.g

.,
respiratory, occupational, physical and infusion therapies), qualifications of
the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the adequacy of the physical
plant and equipment, reimbursement and rate setting and operating policies.  In
addition, as described below, operators of these facilities are subject to
extensive laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse,
including, but not limited to, the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the Federal
Stark Law, and the Federal False Claims Act, as well as comparable state law
counterparts.  Hospitals, physician group practice clinics, and other health
care providers that operate in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal,
state, and local licensure, registration, certification, and inspection laws,
regulations, and industry standards.  Our tenants’ failure to comply with any
of these, and other, laws could result in loss of accreditation; denial of
reimbursement; imposition of fines; suspension, decertification, or exclusion
from federal and state health care programs; loss of license; or closure of the
facility.

Licensing
and Certification

The primary regulations that affect seniors housing facilities with assisted
living are state licensing and registration laws.  In granting and renewing
these licenses, the state regulatory agencies consider numerous factors
relating to a property’s physical plant and operations, including, but not
limited to, admission and discharge standards, staffing, and training.  A
decision to grant or renew a license is also affected by a property owner’s
record with respect to patient and consumer rights, medication guidelines, and
rules.  Certain of the seniors housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us
may require the resident to pay an entrance or upfront fee, a portion of which
may be refundable.  These entrance fee communities are subject to significant
state regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each
facility’s financial condition; establishment and monitoring of reserve
requirements, and other financial restrictions; the right of residents to
cancel their contracts within a specified period of time; lien rights in favor
of residents; restrictions on change of ownership; and similar matters.  Such
oversight, and the rights of residents within these entrance fee communities,
may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the facility operators, and,
therefore, may adversely affect us.

Certain health care facilities are subject to a variety of licensure and
certificate of need (“CON”) laws and regulations.  Where applicable, CON laws
generally require, among other requirements, that a facility demonstrate the
need for (1) constructing a new facility, (2) adding beds or expanding an
existing facility, (3) investing in major capital equipment or adding new
services, (4) changing the ownership or control of an existing licensed
facility, or (5) terminating services that have been previously approved
through the CON process.  Certain state CON laws and regulations may restrict
the ability of operators to add new properties or expand an existing facility’s
size or services. In addition, CON laws may constrain the ability of an
operator to transfer responsibility for operating a particular facility to a
new operator.  If we have to replace a property operator who is excluded from
participating in a federal or state health care program (as discussed below),
our ability to replace the operator may be affected by a particular state’s CON
laws, regulations, and applicable guidance governing changes in provider
control.

With respect to licensure, generally our long-term/post-acute care facilities
and acute care facilities are required to be licensed and certified for
participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state health care
programs.  This generally requires license renewals and compliance surveys on
an annual or bi-annual basis. The failure of our operators to maintain or renew
any required license or regulatory approval as well as the failure of our
operators to correct serious deficiencies identified in a compliance survey
could require those operators to discontinue operations at a property.  In
addition, if a property is found to be out of compliance with Medicare,
Medicaid, or other federal or state health care program conditions of
participation, the property operator may be excluded from participating in
those government health care programs.  Any such occurrence may impair an
operator’s ability to meet their financial obligations to us.  If we have to
replace an excluded-property operator, our ability to replace the operator may
be affected by


federal and state laws, regulations, and
applicable guidance governing changes in provider control. This may result in
payment delays, an inability to find a replacement operator, a significant
working capital commitment from us to a new operator or other difficulties.

Reimbursement

The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care facilities continue to
evolve.  Federal and state authorities have considered and may seek to
implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may negatively
impact health care property operations.  The impact of any such changes, if
implemented, may result in a material adverse effect on our portfolio.  No
assurance can be given that current revenue sources or levels will be
maintained.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that payments under a
government health care program are currently, or will be in the future,
sufficient to fully reimburse the property operators for their operating and
capital expenses.  As a result, an operator’s ability to meet its financial
obligations to us could be adversely impacted.

Seniors Housing Facilities (excluding long-term/post-acute care facilities).

Approximately 54% of our overall revenues
for the year ended December 31, 2015 were attributable to U.S. seniors housing
facilities.  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of these
facilities are from private pay sources. The remaining revenue source is
primarily Medicaid under certain waiver programs.  As a part of the Omnibus
Budget Reconciliation Act (“OBRA”) of 1981, Congress established a waiver
program enabling some states to offer Medicaid reimbursement to assisted living
providers as an alternative to institutional long-term care services.  The
provisions of OBRA, the subsequent OBRA Acts of 1987 and 1990, and certain
provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (“PPACA”),
permit states to seek a waiver from typical Medicaid requirements or otherwise
amend their state plans to develop cost-effective alternatives to long-term
care, including Medicaid payments for assisted living and home health.  As of
September 30, 2015, 16 of our 44 seniors housing operators received Medicaid
reimbursement pursuant to Medicaid waiver programs. For the twelve months ended
September 30, 2015, approximately 1.4% of the revenues at our seniors housing
facilities were from Medicaid reimbursement.  There can be no guarantee that a
state Medicaid program operating pursuant to a waiver will be able to maintain
its waiver status.

Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and are determined
by local market conditions and operating costs.  Generally, facilities receive
a higher payment per day for a private pay resident than for a Medicaid
beneficiary who requires a comparable level of care.  The level of Medicaid
reimbursement varies from state to state.  Thus, the revenues generated by
operators of our assisted living facilities may be adversely affected by payor
mix, acuity level, changes in Medicaid eligibility, and reimbursement levels. 
In addition, a state could lose its Medicaid waiver and no longer be permitted
to utilize Medicaid dollars to reimburse for assisted living services.  Changes
in revenues could in turn have a material adverse effect on an operator’s
ability to meet its obligations to us.

Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities

.  Approximately 14% of our overall
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 were attributable to long-term/post-acute
care facilities.  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of
these facilities are from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, with the balance
representing reimbursement payments from private payors, including private
insurers.  Consequently, changes in federal or state reimbursement policies may
adversely affect an operator’s ability to cover its expenses, including our
rent or debt service.  Long-term/post-acute care facilities are subject to
periodic pre- and post-payment reviews, and other audits by federal and state
authorities.  A review or audit of a property operator’s claims could result in
recoupments, denials, or delay of payments in the future, which could have a
material adverse effect on the operator’s ability to meet its financial
obligations to us.  Due to the significant judgments and estimates inherent in
payor settlement accounting, no assurance can be given as to the adequacy of
any reserves maintained by our property operators to cover potential
adjustments to reimbursements, or to cover settlements made to payors. Recent
attention on billing practices, payments, and quality of care, or ongoing
government pressure to reduce spending by government health care programs,
could result in lower payments to long-term/post-acute care facilities and, as
a result, may impair an operator’s ability to meet its financial obligations to
us.

Medicare Reimbursement and Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities.

For
the twelve months ended September 30, 2015, approximately 34% of the revenues
at our long-term/post-acute care facilities were paid by Medicare. Generally,
long-term/post-acute care facilities are reimbursed under the Medicare Skilled
Nursing Facility Prospective Payment System (“SNF PPS”), the Inpatient
Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment System (“IRF PPS”), or the Long
Term Care Hospital Prospective Payment System (“LTCH PPS”).  There is a risk
under these payment systems that costs will exceed the fixed payments, or that
payments may be set below the costs to provide certain items and services,
which could result in immediate financial difficulties for operators, and could
cause operators to seek bankruptcy protection.

The CMS, an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), made
positive payment updates for the 2016 fiscal year under the SNF PSS, the IRF
PPS and the LTCH PPS.

·

On August 4, 2015, CMS published a
final rule regarding fiscal year 2016 (“FY16”) Medicare payment rates for
skilled nursing facilities (“SNFs”).  Under the rule, CMS projects that
aggregate payments to SNFs will increase by $430 million, or 1.2%, from
payments in fiscal year 2015.


·

On August 6, 2015, CMS published a
final rule for the IRF PPS.  Under the final rule, inpatient rehabilitation
facilities (“IRFs”) will receive a net increase of 1.8%, accounting for
adjustments, such as the multifactor productivity adjustment.  An additional
0.1% increase to aggregate payments due to updating the outlier threshold
results in an overall update of 1.8% relative to payments in fiscal year 2015. 
CMS estimates aggregate payments to IRFs will increase by $135 million in
fiscal year 2016.

·

On August 17, 2015, CMS published
a final rule regarding FY16 Medicare payment rates for long-term care hospitals
(“LTCHs”).  Under the rule, standard LTCH PPS rates will increase 1.7%.  CMS
projects overall payments to LTCHs under the rule would decrease by 4.6%, or
$250 million, due to the statutory decrease in payment rates for site neutral
LTCH PPS cases. Site neutral LTCH PPS cases do not meet the clinical criteria
to qualify for the higher standard LTCH PPS payment rates.

Other Laws, Regulations (Proposed and Final), and Initiatives Affecting
Medicare Reimbursement for LTCHs, SNFs, and IRFs

.  On December 26, 2013,
the President signed into law the Pathway for SGR Reform Act (“SGR Reform”).
SGR Reform implemented several changes to the Medicare payment rules for
LTCHs.  For a discharge in cost reporting periods beginning on or after October
1, 2015, specified cases in LTCHs will receive the “applicable” site-neutral
payment rate.  Specifically, payment rates will be blended for discharges in
cost reporting periods beginning in fiscal year 2016 and fiscal year 2017,
consisting of half of the site neutral payment rate and half of the payment
rate that would otherwise apply, and then shift to all site-neutral payments in
fiscal year 2018.  Patients with a three-day stay in an intensive care unit
prior to LTCH admission or ventilator patients with at least 96 hours are
exempted from the lower site-neutral payments if the discharge does not have a
principal diagnosis relating to a psychiatric diagnosis or to rehabilitation. 
Beginning in fiscal year 2020, LTCHs are to maintain at least 50% of patients
that are excluded from the site-neutral payments. SGR Reform also requires the
Medicare Payment Advisory Committee (“MedPAC”) to conduct a study and submit a
report to Congress by June 30, 2019 that includes recommendations that address
these changes to the LTCH payment policies.  Additionally, beginning in fiscal
year 2016, calculation of length of stay requirements for LTCHs will exclude
any patients for whom payment is made (i) at the site-neutral payment rate and
(ii) under any Medicare Advantage plan.  SGR Reform also delayed implementation
of a limit of no more than 25% of patients referred from any one hospital (“25%
Rule”) for another three years, and the Secretary of HHS must issue a report in
two years on the need for any further extension or modifications to the 25%
Rule.  Finally, SGR Reform reinstituted a moratorium on new LTCHs or any
increase in LTCH beds from January 1, 2015 through September 30, 2017.

On April 1, 2014, the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (“Access to
Medicare Act”) was enacted.  The Access to Medicare Act implements value-based
purchasing for SNFs.  Beginning in fiscal year 2019, 2% of SNF payments will be
withheld and approximately 50% to 70% of the amount withheld will be paid to
SNFs through value-based payments.  SNFs began reporting the claims-based
30-Day All-Cause Readmission Measure on October 1, 2015 and will begin
reporting a resource use measure by October 1, 2016.  Both measures will be
publicly available by October 1, 2017.

On October 6, 2014, the President signed into law the Improving Medicare
Post-Acute Transformation Act of 2014 (“IMPACT Act”).  The law applies to SNFs,
LTCHs, IRFs and home health agencies and requires providers to report
standardized patient assessment data, data on quality measures, and data on
resource use and other measures.  The law requires public reporting of quality
and resource use and other measures.  MedPAC is required to submit a report to
Congress by June 30, 2016, evaluating and recommending features of a post-acute
payment system that establishes payment rates according to individual
characteristics instead of the post-acute setting where the patient is
treated.  The report must include a technical prototype for a post-acute
prospective payment system and the impact of moving from the current to the new
payment system.

On July 16, 2015, CMS issued a proposed rule that, for the first time in nearly
25 years, would comprehensively update the SNF requirements for participation
under Medicare and Medicaid.  Among other things, the proposed rule addresses
requirements relating to quality of care and quality of life, facility
responsibilities and staffing considerations, resident assessments, and
compliance and ethics programs. CMS estimates that this rule would result in an
estimated first-year cost of approximately $46,491 per facility and a
subsequent-year cost of $40,685 per facility on 15,691 LTCHs.

On November 24, 2015, CMS published a final rule to bundle the costs for Lower
Extremity Joint Replacement procedures in certain geographic areas.  The bundle
will begin with the hospital admission and continue for 90 days following
hospital discharge.  The following services, among others, will be included:
physician services, inpatient hospital services (including readmission), LTCH,
inpatient rehabilitation, SNF, and/or home health services, hospital outpatient
services, outpatient therapy, clinical lab, and hospice.  Hospitals subject to
the bundling requirements with spending below an established target price that
meet the threshold on certain quality measures could earn a reconciliation
payment from Medicare.  Hospitals with spending that exceeds the target will
need to pay the difference to Medicare.

On December 1, 2015, CMS published a notice seeking comments on the methodology
used to cut Medicare Part A hospital reimbursement by 0.2% as part of the
original “Two-Midnight” payment policy.  The notice was issued in response to a
federal district court’s finding in September that CMS did not adequately
explain its reasoning for the 0.2% pay cut in 2013. In accordance with the


federal district court’s order in

Shands Jacksonville
Medical Center, Inc., et al. v. Burwell, No. 14-263 (D.D.C.)

, the notice
discusses the basis for the 0.2% reduction and its underlying assumptions and
invites comments on the same to facilitate the CMS’s further consideration of
the fiscal year 2014 reduction.

Finally, in January 2016, MedPAC finalized its recommendations, advising Congress
that Medicare payments should remain the same in fiscal year 2017 for LTCHs and
IRFs, among other institutions.  The final recommendations also urge Congress
to eliminate the market basket updates for SNFs for fiscal year 2017 and 2018
and direct the Secretary of HHS to revise the SNF prospective payment system. 
To the extent such recommendations are implemented, they could impact our
operators and tenants.

HHS Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) Recommendations Addressing SNF
Billing.

In the OIG’s March 2015
Compendium of Priority Recommendations, a report that highlights the OIG’s
previous recommendations for which corrective action has not been completed,
the OIG cited its prior November 2012 report addressing questionable billing
practices by SNFs.  The OIG recommended, among other things, changing the
current method for determining how much therapy is needed to ensure appropriate
payments, monitoring compliance with new therapy assessments, and improving
accuracy of data submitted by SNFs.  Similarly, in June 2015, the OIG issued a
report analyzing CMS’ assessments related to changes in the amount of therapy
that a beneficiary receives during stays.  The OIG concluded that CMS’ new
policies create challenges for oversight and that SNFs’ use of these
assessments cost Medicare $143 million over two years.  The OIG recommended,
among other things, that CMS (1) reduce the financial incentive for SNFs to use
assessments differently when decreasing and increasing therapy and (2)
accelerate its efforts to implement a new method for paying for therapy.  OIG
also issued a report in September 2015, calling for reevaluation of the
Medicare payment system for skilled nursing facilities. In particular, OIG
found that Medicare payments for therapy greatly exceeded SNFs’ costs for
therapy, and that, under the current payment system, SNFs increasingly billed
for the highest level of therapy even though key beneficiary characteristics
remained largely the same.  OIG determined that its findings demonstrated the
need for CMS to reevaluate the Medicare SNF payment system, concluding that
payment reform could save Medicare billions of dollars and encourage SNFs to
provide services that are better aligned with beneficiaries’ care needs.  Most
recently, OIG issued (1) its findings regarding the fiscal year 2015 Top
Management and Performance Challenges Facing HHS and (2) the FY 2016 OIG Work
Plan. Both cited SNF billing as an area that creates incentives for providers
to bill more expensive care instead of the appropriate levels of care,
requiring ongoing government monitoring and auditing for compliance.   If followed, these reports and
recommendations may impact our operators and tenants.

Medicare Reimbursement for Physicians, Hospital Outpatient Departments, and
Ambulatory Surgical Centers.

Historically, CMS annually adjusted the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule payment
rates based on an update formula that included application of the Sustainable
Growth Rate (“SGR”).  As noted above, on April 1, 2014, President Obama signed
into law the Access to Medicare Act, which, among other things, provided for a
0% update to the 2015 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule through March 31, 2015. 
On November 13, 2014, CMS published the calendar year 2015 Physician Fee
Schedule final rule, which, consistent with the Access to Medicare Act, called
for a 0% update from January 1, 2015 through March 31, 2015 and a negative
21.2% update under the statutory SGR formula for April 1, 2015 through December
31, 2015.  However, on April 16, 2015, President Obama signed and enacted into
law H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, which,
among other things:

·

Repeals the SGR;

·

Institutes a 0% update to the
single conversion factor under the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule from January
1 through June 30, 2015, a 0.5% update for July 2015 through the end of 2019,
and a 0% update for 2020 through 2025.  For 2026 and subsequent years, the
update will be either 0.75% or 0.25%, depending on which Alternate Payment
Model the physician participates;

·

Delays the Geographic Practice
Cost Indices payment adjustment until January 1, 2018;

·

Extends the therapy cap exceptions
process through December 31, 2017; and

·

Imposes a market basket update of
1% for skilled nursing providers for FY 2018.

Also, on April 6, 2015, CMS announced final 2016 payment rates for Medicare
Advantage, with an expected average payment impact of 3.25%.  Changes in
Medicare Advantage plan payments may indirectly affect our operators and
tenants that contract with Medicare Advantage plans.

Additionally, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, enacted on November 2, 2015,
contains a provision that alters how much Medicare pays for outpatient services
furnished by hospitals.  Pursuant to Section 603 of the Act, effective January
1, 2017, an off-campus hospital outpatient department (“HOPD”) will no longer
qualify for Medicare payment under the Hospital Outpatient Prospective Payment System,
unless the off-campus HOPD was established prior to the date of enactment
(November 2, 2015), and Medicare payment  will, instead, be made under the
applicable non-hospital payment system (i.e., the Physician Fee Schedule or
Ambulatory Surgical Center (“ASC”) system), which typically provides for lower
payment rates. This site-neutrality provision is intended to address
policymakers’ concerns that Medicare’s current payment policies incentivize
hospitals to acquire and label physician practices and ASCs  as HOPDs due to
higher rates available for services furnished in hospital outpatient settings. 
It is unclear whether this provision will significantly impact Welltower’s
operators and tenants.


CMS also issued additional rules which could
impact our tenants and operators.

·

On November 13, 2015, CMS
published a final rule regarding 2016 Medicare payment rates for HOPDs and
ASCs.  Under the rule, CMS reduced payments to HOPDs by 0.3% and increased
payments to ASCs by 0.3%.  The final rule also included updates to the
“Two-Midnight” rule regarding when inpatient admissions are appropriate for
payment under Medicare Part A.  Under the final rule, an inpatient admission
lasting less than two midnights would be payable under Medicare Part A on a
case-by-case basis based on the judgment of the admitting physician, supported
by documentation in the medical record.

·

On November 16, 2015, CMS
published a final rule regarding 2016 Medicare payment rates under the
Physician Fee Schedule.  Among other final policies, CMS finalized its plans to
initiate implementation of the new payment system for physicians and other
practitioners, the Merit-Based Incentive Payment System (“MIPS”), required by
the legislation that repealed the SGR.  Under the legislation, the MIPS will be
fully implemented in calendar year 2019.

Medicaid Reimbursement and Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities.

For
the twelve months ended September 30, 2015, approximately 41% of the revenues
of long-term/post-acute care facilities were paid by Medicaid. The federal and
state governments share responsibility for financing Medicaid.  The federal
matching rate, known as the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage, varies by
state based on relative per capita income, but is at least 50% in all states. 
According to the National Association of State Budget Officers, Medicaid was
the largest component of total state spending, representing approximately 27.4%
of total state expenditures in state fiscal year 2015.  The percentage of
Medicaid dollars for long-term/post-acute care facilities varies from state to
state, due in part to different ratios of elderly population and eligibility
requirements.  Within certain federal guidelines, states have a fairly wide
range of discretion to determine eligibility and reimbursement methodology. 
Many states reimburse SNFs, for example, using fixed daily rates, which are
applied prospectively based on patient acuity and the historical costs incurred
in providing patient care.  Reasonable costs typically include allowances for
staffing, administrative and general expenses, property, and equipment (

e.g

.,
real estate taxes, depreciation and fair rental).

In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse the cost of providing
services.  Certain states are attempting to slow the rate of Medicaid growth by
freezing rates or restricting eligibility and benefits.  Average Medicaid rates
for our long-term/post-acute care facilities will likely vary throughout the
year as states continue to make interim changes to their budgets and Medicaid
funding.  In addition, Medicaid reimbursement rates may decline if revenues in
a particular state are not sufficient to fund budgeted expenditures.

Health Reform Laws.

On March 23,
2010, the President signed into law the PPACA and the Health Care and Education
Reconciliation Act of 2010, which amends the PPACA (collectively, the “Health
Reform Laws”).  The Health Reform Laws contain various provisions that may
directly impact us or the operators and tenants of our properties.  Some
provisions of the Health Reform Laws may have a positive impact on our
operators’ or tenants’ revenues, by, for example, increasing coverage of
uninsured individuals, while others may have a negative impact on the
reimbursement of our operators or tenants by, for example, altering the market
basket adjustments for certain types of health care facilities.  The Health
Reform Laws also enhance certain fraud and abuse penalty provisions that could
apply to our operators and tenants, in the event of one or more violations of
the federal health care regulatory laws. In addition, there are provisions that
impact the health coverage that we and our operators and tenants provide to our
respective employees.  The Health Reform Laws also provide additional Medicaid
funding to allow states to carry out the expansion of Medicaid coverage to
certain financially−eligible individuals beginning in 2014, and have also
permitted states to expand their Medicaid coverage to these individuals since
April 1, 2010, if certain conditions are met.  On June 28, 2012, the United
States Supreme Court upheld the individual mandate of the Health Reform Laws
but partially invalidated the expansion of Medicaid.  The ruling on Medicaid
expansion will allow states not to participate in the expansion – and to forego
funding for the Medicaid expansion – without losing their existing Medicaid
funding.  Given that the federal government substantially funds the Medicaid
expansion, it is unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option. 
The participation by states in the Medicaid expansion could have the dual
effect of increasing our tenants’ revenues, through new patients, but could
also further strain state budgets.  While the federal government will pay for
approximately 100% of those additional costs from 2014 to 2016, states will be
expected to pay for part of those additional costs beginning in 2017.

Challenges to the Health Reform Laws

. 
Since the enactment of the Health Care Laws, there have been multiple attempts
through legislative action and legal challenge to repeal or amend the Health
Reform Laws, including the case that was before the U.S. Supreme Court,

King
v. Burwell

.  Although the Supreme Court in

Burwell

upheld the use of
subsidies to individuals in federally-facilitated health care exchanges on June
25, 2015, which ultimately did not disrupt significantly the implementation of
the Health Care Reform Laws, we cannot predict whether other current or future
efforts to repeal or amend the Health Reform Laws will be successful, nor can
we predict the impact that such a repeal or amendment would have on our
operators or tenants and their ability to meet their obligations to us.

We cannot predict whether the existing Health Reform Laws, or future health
care reform legislation or regulatory changes, will have a material impact on
our operators’ or tenants’ property or business. If the operations, cash flows
or financial condition of our operators and tenants are materially adversely
impacted by the Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our revenue and
operations may be adversely affected as well.


Other Related Laws,
Initiatives, and Considerations

Long-term/post-acute care facilities (and seniors housing facilities that
receive Medicaid payments) are subject to federal, state, and local laws,
regulations, and applicable guidance that govern the operations and financial
and other arrangements that may be entered into by health care providers. 
Certain of these laws prohibit direct or indirect payments of any kind for the
purpose of inducing or encouraging the referral of patients for medical
products or services reimbursable by government health care programs.  Other laws
require providers to furnish only medically necessary services and submit to
the government valid and accurate statements for each service.  Still other
laws require providers to comply with a variety of safety, health and other
requirements relating to the condition of the licensed property and the quality
of care provided.  Sanctions for violations of these laws, regulations, and
other applicable guidance may include, but are not limited to, criminal and/or
civil penalties and fines, loss of licensure, immediate termination of
government payments, and exclusion from any government health care program.  In
certain circumstances, violation of these rules (such as those prohibiting
abusive and fraudulent behavior) with respect to one property may subject other
facilities under common control or ownership to sanctions, including exclusion
from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as other
government health care programs.  In the ordinary course of its business, a
property operator is regularly subjected to inquiries, investigations, and
audits by the federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and
regulations.

Long-term/post-acute care facilities (and seniors housing facilities that
receive Medicaid payments) are also subject to the Federal Anti-Kickback
Statute, which generally prohibits persons from offering, providing,
soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce either the referral of an
individual or the furnishing of a good or service for which payment may be made
under a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid.
Long-term/post-acute care facilities are also subject to the Federal Ethics in
Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the Stark Law.  The Stark
Law generally prohibits the submission of claims to Medicare for payment if the
claim results from a physician referral for certain designated services and the
physician has a financial relationship with the health service provider that
does not qualify under one of the exceptions for a financial relationship under
the Stark Law.  Similar prohibitions on physician self-referrals and submission
of claims apply to state Medicaid programs.  Further, long-term/post-acute care
facilities (and seniors housing facilities that receive Medicaid payments), are
subject to substantial financial penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties
Act and the Federal False Claims Act and, in particular, actions under the
Federal False Claims Act’s “whistleblower” provisions.  Private enforcement of
health care fraud has increased due in large part to amendments to the Federal
False Claims Act that encourage private individuals to sue on behalf of the
government.  These whistleblower suits brought by private individuals, known as

qui tam

actions, may be filed by almost anyone, including present and
former patients, nurses and other employees, and competitors.  Significantly,
if a claim is successfully adjudicated, the Federal False Claims Act provides
for treble damages up to $11,000 per claim.

Prosecutions, investigations, or whistleblower actions could have a material
adverse effect on a property operator’s liquidity, financial condition, and
operations, which could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet
its financial obligations to us.  Finally, various state false claim act and
anti-kickback laws may also apply to each property operator.  Violation of any
of the foregoing statutes can result in criminal and/or civil penalties that
could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its
financial obligations to us.

Other legislative developments, including the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), have greatly expanded the definition of
health care fraud and related offenses and broadened its scope to include
private health care plans in addition to government payors.  Congress also has
greatly increased funding for the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of
Investigation and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of
Health and Human Services to audit, investigate and prosecute suspected health
care fraud.  Moreover, a significant portion of the billions in health care
fraud recoveries over the past several years has also been returned to
government agencies to further fund their fraud investigation and prosecution
efforts.

Additionally, other HIPAA provisions and regulations provide for communication
of health information through standard electronic transaction formats and for
the privacy and security of health information.  In order to comply with the
regulations, health care providers often must undertake significant operational
and technical implementation efforts.  Operators also may face significant
financial exposure if they fail to maintain the privacy and security of medical
records and other personal health information about individuals. The Health
Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (“HITECH”) Act, passed
in February 2009, strengthened the HHS Secretary’s authority to impose civil
money penalties for HIPAA violations occurring after February 18, 2009. HITECH
directs the HHS Secretary to provide for periodic audits to ensure covered
entities and their business associates (as that term is defined under HIPAA)
comply with the applicable HITECH requirements, increasing the likelihood that
a HIPAA violation will result in an enforcement action.  CMS issued an interim
Final Rule which conformed HIPAA enforcement regulations to the HITECH Act,
increasing the maximum penalty for multiple violations of a single requirement
or prohibition to $1.5 million.  Higher penalties may accrue for violations of
multiple requirements or prohibitions.  Additionally, on January 17, 2013, CMS
released an omnibus final rule, which expands the applicability of HIPAA and
HITECH and strengthens the government’s ability to enforce these laws.  The
final rule broadens the definition of “business associate” and provides for
civil money penalty liability against covered entities and business associates
for the acts of their agents regardless of whether a business associate
agreement is in place.  This rule also modified the standard for when a breach
of unsecured personally identifiable health information must be reported.  Some
covered


entities have entered into settlement
agreements with HHS for allegedly failing to adopt policies and procedures
sufficient to implement the breach notification provisions in the HITECH Act. 
Additionally, the final rule adopts certain changes to the HIPAA enforcement
regulations to incorporate the increased and tiered civil monetary penalty
structure provided by HITECH, and makes business associates of covered entities
directly liable under HIPAA for compliance with certain of the HIPAA privacy
standards and HIPAA security standards.  HIPAA violations are also potentially
subject to criminal penalties.

There has been increased federal and state HIPAA privacy and security
enforcement efforts and we expect this trend to continue. Under HITECH, state
attorneys general have the right to prosecute HIPAA violations committed
against residents of their states. Several such actions have already been
brought against both covered entities and a business associate, and continued
enforcement actions are likely to occur in the future.  In addition, HITECH
mandates that the Secretary of HHS conduct periodic compliance audits of HIPAA
covered entities and business associates. It also tasks HHS with establishing a
methodology whereby individuals who are harmed by HIPAA violations may receive
a percentage of the civil monetary penalty fine or monetary settlement paid by
the violator.

In addition to HIPAA, numerous other state and federal laws govern the
collection, dissemination, use, access to and confidentiality of individually
identifiable health information. In addition, some states are considering new
laws and regulations that further protect the confidentiality, privacy or
security of medical records or other types of medical or personal information. 
These laws may be similar to or even more stringent than the federal provisions
and are not preempted by HIPAA. Not only may some of these state laws impose
fines and penalties upon violators, but some afford private rights of action to
individuals who believe their personal information has been misused.

Most recently with respect to HIPAA, in September, 2015, OIG issued two reports calling for
better privacy oversight of covered entities.  The first report, titled
“OCR Should Strengthen its Oversight of Covered Entities’ Compliance with the
HIPAA Privacy Standards,” found that OCR’s oversight is primarily reactive, as
OCR has not fully implemented the required audit program to proactively assess
possible noncompliance from covered entities. OIG recommended, among other
things, that OCR fully implement a permanent audit program and develop a policy
requiring OCR staff to check whether covered entities had previously been
investigated for noncompliance.  The second report, titled “OCR Should
Strengthen its Follow-up of Breaches of Patient Information Reported by Covered
Entities,” found that (1) OCR did not record corrective action information for
23% of closed “large-breach” cases in which it made determinations of
noncompliance, and (2) OCR did not record “small-breach” information in its
case-tracking system, which limits its ability to track and identify covered
entities with multiple small breaches.  OIG recommended, among other things,
that OCR enter small-breach information into its case-tracking system and
maintain complete documentation of corrective actions taken. OCR agreed with
OIG’s recommendations in both reports.  If followed, these reports and
recommendations may impact our operators and tenants.

In November 2002, CMS began an ongoing national Nursing Home Quality Initiative
(“NHQI”).  Under this initiative, historical survey information, the NHQI Pilot
Evaluation Report and the NHQI Overview is made available to the public
on-line.  The NHQI website provides consumer and provider information regarding
the quality of care in nursing homes.  The data allows consumers, providers,
states, and researchers to compare quality information that shows how well
nursing homes are caring for their residents’ physical and clinical needs.  The
posted nursing home quality measures come from resident assessment data that
nursing homes routinely collect on the residents at specified intervals during
their stay.  If the operators of nursing facilities are unable to achieve
quality of care ratings that are comparable or superior to those of their
competitors, they may lose market share to other facilities, reducing their
revenues and adversely impacting their ability to make rental payments.

In addition, recent government proposals have resulted in an increased emphasis
by the government on the quality of care provided by providers.  For example,
on February 27, 2015, CMS announced the establishment of a Health Care Payment
Learning and Action Network as part of its plan to shift the Medicare program,
and the healthcare system at large, toward paying providers based on quality,
rather than the quantity of care they provide to patients.  Through the
Learning and Action Network, CMS will work with private payers, employers,
consumers, providers, states and state Medicaid programs, and other partners to
expand alternative payment models into their programs.  To the extent this and
similar measures impose additional obligations on our operators or tenants, or
decrease the reimbursements that they receive, our revenues and operations may
be indirectly adversely affected.

In October 2015, the U.S. Government Accountability Office (“GAO”) released a
report recommending that CMS continue to improve data and oversight of nursing
home quality measures.  The GAO found that although CMS collects several types
of data that give some insight into the quality of nursing homes, the data
could provide a clearer picture of nursing home quality if some underlying
problems with the data (

i.e

., the use of self-reported data and
non-standardized survey methodologies) are corrected.  The GAO recommends,
among other things, that CMS implement a clear plan for ongoing auditing of
self-reported data and establish a process for monitoring oversight
modifications to better assess their effects.  According to the GAO,
timely completion of these actions is particularly important because Medicare
payments to nursing homes will be dependent on quality data, through the
implementation of the value based purchasing program, starting in fiscal year
2019.  HHS agreed with the GAO’s recommendations, and to the extent such
recommendations are implemented, they could impact Welltower’s operators and
tenants.


According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, it is not possible to predict the severity of the upcoming flu
season or the efficacy of available flu vaccinations.  The U.S. experiences
epidemics of seasonal flu each year, which result in increased
influenza-related hospitalizations and deaths.  According to HHS, each flu
season, nearly 111 million workdays are lost due to the flu, which equals
approximately $7 billion per year in sick days and lost productivity.  As such,
depending on the severity and duration of the upcoming flu season, the flu
could impact Welltower’s operators and tenants.

Finally, government investigations and enforcement actions brought against the
health care industry have increased dramatically over the past several years
and are expected to continue.  Some of these enforcement actions represent
novel legal theories and expansions in the application of the Federal False
Claims Act.  The costs for an operator of a health care property associated
with both defending such enforcement actions and the undertakings in settling
these actions can be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on
the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us.

United
Kingdom

Registration

In England, care home services are principally
regulated by the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (the

“Act”) and associated Regulations.

The Act requires all persons carrying out “Regulated
Activities” in England, and the managers of such persons, to be registered.
Regulated Activities are defined in the Health and Social Care Act 2008
(Regulated Activities) Regulations 2014, as amended (the “2014 Regulations”),
and include (among other activities):

·

The provision of personal care for
persons who, by reason of old age, illness or disability are unable to provide
it for themselves, and which is provided in a place where those persons are
living at the time the care is provided; and

·

The provision of residential
accommodation, together with nursing or personal care.

From April 1, 2015, the 2014 Regulations fully revoked the Health and Social
Care Act 2008 (Regulated Activities) Regulations 2010 (the “2010 Regulations”)
and while the 2014 Regulations introduce certain modifications with regard to
service standards, the registration obligations under the Act remain.

Service Standards and Notification Obligations

The 2014 Regulations aim to streamline the legal
obligations in the 2010 Regulations, and replace them with a set of more
broadly-phrased, legally binding “Fundamental Standards”. The 2014 Regulations
list the standards that must be met when providing care services. The service
providers’ legal obligations include:

·

Care and treatment must be
appropriate and reflect service user needs and preferences;

·

Service users must be treated with
dignity and respect;

·

Care and treatment must only be provided
with consent;

·

Care and treatment must be
provided in a safe way for service users;

·

Service users must be protected
from abuse and improper treatment;

·

Service users nutritional and
hydration needs must be met;

·

All premises and equipment must be
clean, secure, suitable and used properly;

·

Complaints must be investigated
and appropriate action taken;

·

Systems and processes must be
established to ensure compliance with fundamental standards;

·

Sufficient numbers of suitably
qualified, competent, skilled and experienced staff must be deployed;

·

Persons employed must be of good
character, having the necessary qualifications, skills and experience, and be
able to perform the work for which they are employed; and

·

Health service bodies must be open
and transparent with service users about their care and treatment.

Failure to comply with certain provisions of the
2014 Regulations is an offense, with a person guilty of the offense liable on
summary conviction to a fine.  Monetary penalty notices may also be issued.

The 2014 Regulations also include:

·

Requirements around fit and proper
persons being employed for the purposes of carrying out a regulated activity.
Such persons must be of good character, have the qualifications, competence,
skills and experience necessary and be able by reason of their health to
perform their tasks. Recruitment procedures must also be established and
effectively operated with certain specified information being available in
relation to each person employed and registered where required;

·

A new “duty of candour” to notify
and apologize to affected persons, in the event of certain incidents having
actually or potentially led to the death of the service user, where the death
relates directly to the incident rather than to the natural course of the
service user's illness or underlying condition, or severe harm, moderate harm
or prolonged psychological harm to the service user;


·

A requirement for a service
provider to display a performance assessment received as a rating of its
performance by the Care Quality Commission (the “CQC”); and

·

A requirement that registered
persons have regard to guidance issued by the CQC and any code of practice from
the Secretary of State in relation to prevention or control of health care
associated infections.

Under the Care Quality Commission
(Registration) Regulations 2009 certain matters must be notified to the CQC,
the government regulatory body overseeing the provision of nursing and other
care services in England.  Failure to comply with notification obligations is
an offense and a person guilty of an offense is liable on summary conviction to
a fine of up to £2,500.

Regulatory Oversight and Inspections

The Act also sets out the powers and
responsibilities of the CQC. Among other powers, the CQC administers the
compulsory registration system and issues guidance to care service providers on
how to comply with applicable standards set out in legislation.

The Care Act 2014 sets out certain provisions
concerning (among others):

·

The duty of a local authority to
meet the needs of an adult for care and support and a carer’s needs where the
registered care provider is unable to carry on a regulated activity because of
business failure;

·

The duty of the CQC to assess the
financial sustainability of providers subject to its regulatory regime with a
view to identifying any threats that such providers may face to their financial
sustainability. Where the CQC identifies a significant risk to financial
sustainability it can require the provider to develop a sustainability plan
setting out the provider’s plan to mitigate or eliminate risk or require the
provider to organize an independent review of the business with the costs being
recovered from the provider;

·

The CQC informing local
authorities where a registered care provider is likely to become unable to
carry on a regulated activity; and

·

A new offense where certain
registered care providers supply, publish or make available information that is
false or misleading in a material respect which can also apply to a director,
manager or person purporting to act as such of a company.

Privacy

In the European Union (“EU”), data protection is governed by the EU Data
Protection Directive 95/46/EC (the “Data Protection Directive”). The Data
Protection Directive has been implemented in the UK by the Data Protection Act
1998 (the “Act”) which entered into force on March 2000 and is enforced by the
Information Commissioner’s Office (“ICO”).

The Act applies to a data controller that processes personal data in the
context of an establishment in the UK, or where not established in the UK, in
any other State of the European Economic Area (“EEA”), processes personal data
through equipment located in the UK other than for the purposes of transit
through the UK. Under the Act, a data controller is the person who (either
alone or jointly or in common with other persons) determines the purposes for
which and the manner in which any personal data are, or are to be, processed.
Personal data is widely defined as data which relates to a living individual
who can be identified from those data, or from those data and other information
which is in the possession of, or is likely to come into the possession of, the
data controller. Sensitive personal data is personal data consisting of
information as to the racial or ethnic origin of the data subject; his/her
political opinions, religious beliefs or other beliefs of a similar nature;
whether he/she is a member of a trade union; his/her physical or mental health
or condition; his/her sexual life; and the commission or alleged commission by
him/her of an offense, any proceedings for any offense committed or alleged to
have been committed by him/her, the disposal of such proceedings, or the
sentence of any court in such proceedings.

The Act imposes a number of obligations on the data controller contained in
eight Data Protection Principles: (i) personal data must be processed fairly
and lawfully, (ii) personal data must be processed for specified and lawful
purposes, (iii) personal data must be adequate, relevant and not excessive,
(iv) personal data must be accurate and up to date, (v) personal data must not
be kept for longer than necessary, (vi) personal data must be processed in
accordance with the rights of data subjects, (vii) appropriate technical and
organizational measures shall be taken against unauthorized or unlawful
processing of personal data and against accidental loss or destruction of, or
damage to, personal data; and (viii) there is a prohibition on transfers of
personal data to countries outside the EEA that are not deemed by the European
Commission to provide an adequate level of protection, which includes the U.S.,
unless certain exemptions under the Act apply.

The ICO has a number of enforcement powers available which includes, in certain
limited cases, criminal prosecution and non-criminal enforcement and audits. 
In case of a breach of the Act, the ICO may: (i) provide practical advice to
organizations on how they should handle data protection matters; (ii) issue
undertakings committing an organization to a particular course of action in
order to improve its compliance; (iii) serve enforcement notices where there
has been a breach, requiring organizations to take (or refrain from taking)
specified steps in order to ensure they comply with the law; (iv) conduct
consensual assessments (audits) to determine if


organizations
are complying; (v) serve assessment notices to conduct compulsory audits to
assess whether organizations’ processing of personal data follows good data
protection practices; (vi) issue monetary penalty notices requiring
organizations to pay up to £500,000 for serious breaches of the Act occurring
on or after April 6, 2010 or serious breaches of the Privacy and Electronic
Communications Regulations occurring after May 26, 2011; and (vii) prosecute
those who commit criminal offenses under the Act.  Under the Act, individuals
also have the right to claim compensation from an organization in respect of
damage caused by a breach of any of the requirements of the Act.

There is a proposal for an EU Data Protection Regulation which
would replace the Data Protection Directive and impose a significant number of
new obligations including, among others, a requirement to appoint data
protection officers, having detailed documentation on the processing of
personal data, carrying out privacy impact assessments in certain circumstances,
providing standardized data protection notices, reporting security breaches
without undue delay, and providing certain rights to individuals such as a
right of erasure of personal data. The EU Data Protection Regulation is to have
significant enforcement powers with fines proposed by the European Commission
of up to 2% of annual worldwide turnover or €20 million, whichever is greater.
The EU Data Protection Regulation may be adopted sometime in 2016 with EU
Member States possibly having two years to implement the Regulation

.

Canada

Retirement homes and long-term care facilities are subject to regulation, and
long-term care facilities receive funding, under provincial law.  There is no
federal regulation in this area.  Set out below are summaries of the principal
regulatory requirements in the provinces where we have a material number of
facilities.

Licensing and Regulation

Alberta

In Alberta, there are three relevant designations for seniors’ living
arrangements, ordered below from the most independent to the highest level of
care.

Retirement Homes

(also referred to as
independent living) are designed for older adults who are able to live on their
own. These communities may offer amenities such as fitness centers, gardens,
paths, libraries, and beauty salons. Residents may access publicly-funded
external care services at the home from funded external suppliers.

Alberta retirement residences may be rented, privately owned, or life-leased.
They may be operated for profit or non-profit. Retirement residences typically
do not offer support services but residents may arrange support services
separate from their accommodations.

Retirement homes do not generally receive government funding; residents pay for
tenancy and services received at retirement homes.  Rental subsidies may be
available to qualified seniors.

Alberta Independent Living residences are legislated under the Residential
Tenancies Act, SA 2004, c R-17.1 and the Alberta Housing Act, RSA 2000, c A-25.

Supportive Living

(also referred to
as assisted living) provides accommodation in a home-like setting, where
residents can remain as independent as possible while still having access to
necessary care, assistance, and services. A provider of designated Supportive
Living services provides at least one meal a day or housekeeping services.
Supportive living includes many different types of facilities, including
seniors lodges, group homes, and mental health and designated supportive living
accommodations. These facilities can be operated by private for-profit, private
not-for-profit, or public operators.

Supportive Living services are licensed under the Supportive Living
Accommodation Licensing Act, SA 2009, c S-23.5, and the Supportive Living
Accommodation Licensing Regulation, Alta Reg 40/2010. They are governed by the
Ministry of Health.

Operators that receive public funds, either directly or indirectly, for health
and personal care services must also comply with the Ministry of Health
Continuing Care Health Service Standards (March 2007, and revised). They are
also subject to the Protection for Persons in Care Act, SA 2009, c P-29.1, under
which the province investigates suspected abuse of adults receiving
government-funded care services.

Licenses may be granted for periods of six months to three years, depending on
how long the facility has been licensed, and depending on past reports. The
Ministry, through a designated director, may conduct inspections of facilities
and review records. The


Director may order a
delinquent facility to take specific steps or to stop certain practices or may
temporarily stop operations; alternatively, the facility’s license may be
suspended.

There are four levels of supportive living, ordered from basic to more advance
care: (1) Residential Living (residents can manage most daily tasks and direct
own care and assistance can be scheduled); (2) Lodge Living (residents can
manage some daily tasks and direct own care and assistance can be scheduled,
although some non-scheduled assistance may be required); (3) Assisted Living
(residents require assistance with many daily tasks, with increased scheduled and
some non-scheduled assistance required); (4) Enhanced Level (residents require
assistance with most or all daily tasks and frequent unscheduled assistance).
In addition, there are two specialized designations of Supportive Care: (1)
Alberta Enhanced Assisted Living (also referred to as Enhanced Lodges or
Alberta Designated Supportive Living Level 4 (SL4) (provides 24-hour scheduled
and unscheduled professional, personal care and support services provided by
Licensed Practical Nurses and Health Care Aides); and (2) Enhanced Assisted
Living Dementia Care Sites (also referred to as Designated Supportive Living
Level 4 Dementia (SL4-D)) (provides assisted living for seniors living with
cognitive impairments (such as Alzheimer’s disease or other types of dementia)
who require safe and secure living accommodation in a therapeutic environment).

Residents pay a fee to cover the costs of providing accommodations and services
like meals, housekeeping and building maintenance. The accommodation fee varies
by accommodation type and the services or amenities that are available to the
resident. Alberta Health regulates the maximum accommodation fee in
publicly-funded designated supportive living. In other types of supportive
living settings, the operator sets the cost of accommodation. Health services
are publicly-funded and provided through Alberta Health Services. Private
sector operators of Supportive Living facilities are eligible to apply for
funding under the Affordable Supportive Living Initiative (“ASLI”), an Alberta
government capital grant program that provides funding to develop long-term
care and affordable supportive living spaces in the province.

Nursing Homes

(also referred to as
long-term care) are for residents who have complex, unpredictable medical needs
and who require 24-hour on-site registered nurse assessment or treatment.

Nursing homes are subject to the Nursing Homes Act, RSA 2000, c N-7, and the
Nursing Home General Regulation, Alta Reg 232/1985, and Long-term Care
Accommodation Standards. They are governed by the Ministry of Health.

Nursing home operators are not licensed, but enter into agreements with the
Ministry for the operation of nursing homes. These facilities can be operated
by private for-profit, private not-for-profit, or public operators.

All operators must comply with the Ministry of Health Long-term Care
Accommodation Standards (March 2007, and revised). Operators that receive
public funds, either directly or indirectly, for health and personal care services
must also comply with the Continuing Care Health Service Standards and are
subject to the Protection for Persons in Care Act.

The Ministry may conduct inspections of facilities and review records.
Deficient facilities may be ordered to submit a correction plan.

Residents pay an accommodation fee to cover the costs of providing
accommodations and services like meals, housekeeping and building maintenance.
Alberta Health regulates the maximum accommodation fee in publicly-funded
long-term care facilities. In other types of supportive living settings, the
accommodation fee is set by the operator. Health services in long-term care are
publicly-funded and provided through Alberta Health Services. Private sector
operators of nursing homes are eligible to apply for funding under the ASLI.
The Minister may make grants to an operator in respect of its operating or
capital costs as prescribed by the regulations.

Ontario

Long-term care facilities, or nursing homes, receive government funding, are
licensed under the Long-Term Care Homes Act, 2007

and are governed by
the Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care.  The LTC Homes Act places a strong
emphasis on the protection of residents.

Retirement homes in Ontario are regulated under the Retirement Homes Act, 2010
(the “Act”).  Retirement homes do not receive any government funding; residents
pay for tenancy and services received at retirement homes.  Residents may
access publicly-funded external care services at the home from funded external
suppliers.

A license is required to operate a retirement home.  Licenses must be applied
for and are non-transferable.  Applications for licenses are directed to the
Registrar of the Retirement Homes Regulatory Authority (“RHRA”).  All of the homes
in which we have an interest in Ontario are licensed as retirement homes. One
of the homes also has some licensed long-term care beds.


Licenses can have conditions imposed upon them or
can be suspended in circumstances where the operator is found to be in
contravention of the Act.  There is no set renewal period for licenses, and
they terminate according to the terms set out in the license itself, or if one
of the enumerated triggering mechanisms occurs (for example, if the operator
ceases to have controlling interest in the license).

The licensee of a retirement home must ensure that the care provided by the
home meets prescribed standards.  The Act and its regulations include a number
of detailed provisions with respect to care standards, safety plans in the
event of emergency or infectious disease, temperature control, cleanliness,
pest control, maintenance, food preparations, risk of resident falls and
behavioral management, among other things.  A care plan must be developed for
each resident of the home (with their consent). The Act establishes a
Residents’ Bill of Rights, which provides residents with a list of rights, such
as the right to participate fully in decision-making with respect to care, the
right not to be restrained and the right to know what care services are
provided and their cost.  The Residents’ Bill of Rights can be enforced as a
contract.

The Act requires a report to the RHRA when any person has reasonable grounds to
suspect abuse of a resident by anyone, or neglect of a resident by staff. 
Following a report to the RHRA, there is a mandatory inspection carried out by
the RHRA, which results in a report that is posted on the RHRA’s public
website. The most recent report must also be posted in the subject home, and be
readily available for review if requested thereafter.  The Registrar of the
RHRA can receive complaints about a retirement home contravening a provision of
the Act, and if such a complaint is received, it must be reviewed promptly. 
The Registrar may ask the retirement home that is the subject of the complaint
to provide information relevant to the complaint, and has the power to conduct
an inspection, issue a written warning or take other action as prescribed in
the regulations.

The Registrar of the RHRA has the power to inspect a retirement home at any
time without warning or issue a warrant to ensure compliance with the Act. 
Compliance inspections occur at least every three years. The Registrar has the
power to make a variety of orders including, for example, the imposition of a
fine or an order revoking the operator’s license.  There is an appeal process
in place with respect to orders made by the Registrar.  The Act also enumerates
offenses, such as operating without a license, and provides for penalties for
offenses.

British Columbia

The Community Care and Assisted Living Act, the Residential Care Regulation,
and the Community Care and Assisted Living Regulation

(together, the
“B.C. Act”) regulate “community care facilities” (long-term care facilities) in
substantially the same manner as retirement homes are regulated under the
Ontario Act. The B.C. Act defines such a facility as premises used for the
purpose of supervising vulnerable persons who require three or more prescribed
services (from a list that includes regular assistance with activities of daily
living; distribution of medication; management of cash resources; monitoring of
food intake; structured behavior management and intervention; and psychosocial
or physical rehabilitative therapy).

The B.C. Act also creates a separate regime for regulating “assisted living
residences,” which are facilities providing at least one but not more than two
prescribed care services. Assisted living residences are designed for those who
can live independently, but who require assistance with certain activities.
Unlike community care facilities, assisted living residences must be registered
with the registrar of assisted living residences, but do not require a license.
Nevertheless, assisted living residences must be operated in a manner that does
not jeopardize the health or safety of its residents. If the registrar has
reason to believe a residence is not being operated in accordance with this
standard, the registrar may inspect the assisted living residence and may
suspend or cancel a registration.  Most of the residences in which we have an
interest in B.C. are assisted living residences, with one being an independent
living residence.

Independent living residences offer housing and hospitality services for
retired adults who are functionally independent and able to direct their own
care.   Services available for residents can include, for example, meals,
housekeeping, monitoring and emergency support, social and recreational
opportunities, and transportation.

Québec

In Québec, retirement homes are regulated by the Act respecting Health Services
and Social Services (the “Act”) and the Regulation respecting the conditions
for obtaining a certificate of compliance and the operating standards for a
private seniors' residence (the “Regulation”), which refer to “private seniors’
residences.” Private seniors’ residences in Québec are required to obtain a
certificate of compliance. The Regulation is currently in the process of being
amended.

A certificate of compliance is issued for a period of three years, is renewable
and can only be validly transferred to another person with the written
permission of the regional licensing agency. An agency may revoke a temporary
certificate, or revoke or refuse to issue or renew a certificate of compliance
if, among other things, the operator fails to comply with the Act and the
Regulation, although the decision of the applicable agency can be contested
before the Administrative Tribunal of Québec. The agency may also


order the residence to take corrective measures, further
to an inspection, complaint and/or investigation. The agency is authorized to
inspect a residence, at any reasonable time of day, in order to ascertain whether
it complies with the Act and the Regulation.

Private seniors’ residences may belong to either or both of the following two
categories: those offering services to independent elderly persons and those
offering services to semi-independent elderly persons. The operator of a
residence must, for each category, comply with the applicable criteria and
standards, with some exceptions provided for residences with fewer than six or
ten rooms or apartments. The Act and the Regulation set out a number of detailed
provisions with respect to residents’ health and safety (including mandatory
call-for-help systems, safety plans in the event of fire or infectious disease,
health assessments, permissible control measures, as well as administration and
distribution of medication), meal services and recreation, content of
residents’ files, disclosure of information to residents, and staffing
requirements, among other things.

Other Related Laws

Privacy

The services provided in our facilities are generally subject to privacy
legislation in Canada, including, in certain provinces, privacy laws
specifically related to personal health information.  Although the obligations
of custodians of personal health information in the various provinces differ to
some extent, they all include the obligation to protect the information.  The
organizations with which we have management agreements may be the custodian of
personal health information/personal information collected in connection with
the operation of our facilities.

Privacy laws in Canada are consent-based and require the implementation of a
privacy program involving policies, procedures and the designation of an
individual or team with primary responsibility for a custodian’s privacy law
compliance.  Mandatory breach notification to the affected individuals is a
requirement under some laws.  Mandatory breach notification to the applicable
regulator is a requirement under some laws, although not yet in effect in some
provinces.  Some laws require notification where personal health
information/personal information is processed or stored outside of Canada.  One
provincial law (in Quebec) provides for fines where an organization fails to
perform required due diligence before outsourcing activities involving personal
information to a service provider outside of the province.

Some privacy regulators in Canada have order-making authority and others are
ombudspersons who make recommendations that may only be enforced by a court.
Under a number of privacy laws, a finding by a regulator that a custodian has
breached the law creates a right to apply to a court for money damages.  In
some provinces there is a statutory civil cause of action for breach of
privacy. In other provinces, the courts have recognized a limited common law
cause of action for breach of privacy.

The powers of privacy regulators and penalties for violations of privacy law
vary according to the applicable law or are left to the courts.  To date,
penalties have generally not been monetary, although that is changing with
civil actions for breach of privacy and may change further as a result of class
action activity.  Regulators have the authority to make public the identity of
a custodian that has been found to have committed a breach, so that there is a
reputational risk associated with privacy law violations even where no monetary
damages are incurred. The notification of patients (mandatory under some
privacy laws) and other activities required to manage a privacy breach can give
rise to significant costs.

Other Legislation

Retirement homes may be
subject to residential tenancy laws, such that there can be restrictions on
rent increases and termination of tenancies, for instance.  Other provincial
legislation applicable to occupational health and safety, public health, and
the provision of community health care and funded long-term/post-acute care may
also apply to retirement homes.  In addition, municipal laws with respect to
matters such as fire safety, food services and zoning would also apply.  In
this connection in Ontario, the Building Code and Fire Code have been amended
to include various safety measures such as mandatory sprinklers, self-closing
doors and increased voice communication system requirements, with grace periods
for compliance with some of the requirements.

In Quebec, the Safety
Code was amended in December 2015 to require that private seniors’ residences
be equipped with a fire alarm and detection system, as well as the installation
of a sprinkler system in certain private seniors’ residences. The amendments
come into force March 18, 2016, except regarding the installation of the
sprinkler system, which has a five year grace period, and comes into force
December 2, 2020.

Taxation

Federal Income Tax Considerations


The following summary of
the taxation of the Company and the material federal tax consequences to the
holders of our debt and equity securities is for general information only and
is not tax advice. This summary does not address all aspects of taxation that
may be relevant to certain types of holders of stock or securities (including,
but not limited to, insurance companies, tax-exempt entities, financial
institutions or broker-dealers, persons holding shares of common stock as part
of a hedging, integrated conversion, or constructive sale transaction or a
straddle, traders in securities that use a mark-to-market method of accounting
for their securities, investors in pass-through entities and foreign
corporations and persons who are not citizens or residents of the United
States).

This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in light of your particular
investment or other circumstances. In addition, this summary does not discuss
any state or local income taxation or foreign income taxation or other tax
consequences. This summary is based on current U.S. federal income tax
law. Subsequent developments in U.S. federal income tax law, including
changes in law or differing interpretations, which may be applied
retroactively, could have a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax
consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our securities as set forth
in this summary. Before you purchase our securities, you should consult your
own tax advisor regarding the particular U.S. federal, state, local,
foreign and other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our
securities.

General

We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment
trust (a “REIT”) commencing with our first taxable year. We intend to continue
to operate in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no guarantee
that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for subsequent years.
Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety
of qualification tests imposed under federal income tax law with respect to
income, assets, distribution level and diversity of share ownership as
discussed below under “— Qualification as a REIT.” There can be no
assurance that we will be owned and organized and will operate in a manner so
as to qualify or remain qualified.

In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general,
we will not be subject to federal income tax on that portion of our REIT
taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders. We may,
however, be subject to tax at normal corporate rates on any taxable income or
capital gain not distributed. If we elect to retain and pay income tax on our
net long-term capital gains, stockholders are required to include their
proportionate share of our undistributed long-term capital gains in income, but
they will receive a refundable credit for their share of any taxes paid by us
on such gain.

Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to
federal income and excise tax as follows:

•     To the extent that we do not distribute all of
our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our
“REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the
undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates;

•     We may be subject to the “alternative minimum
tax” (the “AMT”) on certain tax preference items to the extent that the AMT
exceeds our regular tax;

•     If we have net income from the sale or other
disposition of “foreclosure property” that is held primarily for sale to
customers in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income
from foreclosure property, such income will be taxed at the highest corporate
rate;

•     Any net income from prohibited transactions
(which are, in general, sales or other dispositions of property held primarily
for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other than
dispositions of foreclosure property and dispositions of property due to an
involuntary conversion) will be subject to a 100% tax;

•     If we fail to satisfy either the 75% or 95%
gross income tests (as discussed below), but nonetheless maintain our
qualification as a REIT because certain other requirements are met, we will be
subject to a 100% tax on an amount equal to (1) the gross income
attributable to the greater of (i) 75% of our gross income over the amount
of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75% gross income test (discussed
below) or (ii) 95% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross
income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (discussed below) multiplied
by (2) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability;

•     If we fail to distribute during each year at
least the sum of (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year,
(2) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year (other than
capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any
undistributed taxable income from preceding periods, we will be subject to a 4%
excise tax on the excess of such required distribution over amounts actually
distributed;

•     We will be subject to a 100% tax on the amount
of any rents from real property, deductions or excess interest paid to us by
any of our “taxable REIT subsidiaries” that would be reduced through reallocation
under certain federal income tax principles in order to more clearly reflect
income of the taxable REIT subsidiary. See “— Qualification as a
REIT — Investments in Taxable REIT Subsidiaries;” and


•     We may be subject to the corporate “alternative
minimum tax” on any items of tax preference, including any deductions of net
operating losses.

If we acquire any assets from a corporation, which is
or has been a “C” corporation, in a carryover basis transaction, we could be
liable for specified liabilities that are inherited from the “C” corporation. A
“C” corporation is generally defined as a corporation that is required to pay
full corporate level federal income tax. If we recognize gain on the
disposition of the assets during the five-year period beginning on the date on
which the assets were acquired by us, then, to the extent of the assets’
“built-in gain” (i.e., the excess of the fair market value of the asset over
the adjusted tax basis in the asset, in each case determined as of the
beginning of the five-year period), we will be subject to tax on the gain at
the highest regular corporate rate applicable. The results described in this
paragraph with respect to the recognition of built-in gain assume that the
built-in gain assets, at the time the built-in gain assets were subject to a
conversion transaction (either where a “C” corporation elected REIT status or a
REIT acquired the assets from a “C” corporation), were not treated as sold to
an unrelated party and gain recognized.  For those properties that are subject
to the built-in-gains tax, if triggered by a sale within the five-year period
beginning on the date on which the properties were acquired by us, then the
potential amount of built-in-gains tax will be an additional factor when
considering a possible sale of the properties.  See Note 18 to our consolidated
financial statements for additional information regarding the built-in gains
tax.

Qualification as a REIT

A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or
association:

(1)     which is managed by one or more trustees or
directors;

(2)     the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced
by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;

(3)     which would be taxable as a domestic
corporation but for the federal income tax law relating to REITs;

(4)     which is neither a financial institution nor
an insurance company;

(5)     the beneficial ownership of which is held by
100 or more persons in each taxable year of the REIT except for its first
taxable year;

(6)     not more than 50% in value of the outstanding
stock of which is owned during the last half of each taxable year, excluding
its first taxable year, directly or indirectly, by or for five or fewer
individuals (which includes certain entities) (the “Five or Fewer Requirement”); and

(7)     which meets certain income and asset tests
described below.

Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met
during the entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at
least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate
part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. For purposes of conditions
(5) and (6), pension funds and certain other tax-exempt entities are
treated as individuals, subject to a “look-through” exception in the case of
condition (6).

Based on publicly available information, we believe we
have satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in (5) and
(6) above. In addition, Article VI of our by-laws provides for
restrictions regarding ownership and transfer of shares. These restrictions are
intended to assist us in continuing to satisfy the share ownership requirements
described in (5) and (6) above. These restrictions, however, may not
ensure that we will, in all cases, be able to satisfy the share ownership
requirements described in (5) and (6) above.

We have complied with, and will continue to comply
with, regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our stockholders
requesting information regarding the actual ownership of our stock. If, despite
sending the annual letters, we do not know, or after exercising reasonable
diligence would not have known, whether we failed to meet the Five or Fewer
Requirement, we will be treated as having met the Five or Fewer Requirement. If
we fail to comply with these regulatory rules, we will be subject to a monetary
penalty. If our failure to comply was due to intentional disregard of the
requirement, the penalty would be increased. However, if our failure to comply
were due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty would be
imposed.

We may own a number of properties through wholly owned
subsidiaries. A corporation will qualify as a “qualified REIT subsidiary” if
100% of its stock is owned by a REIT, and the REIT does not elect to treat the
subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” will not
be treated as a separate corporation, and all assets, liabilities and items of
income, deductions and credits of a “qualified REIT subsidiary” will be treated
as assets, liabilities and items (as the case may be) of the REIT. A


“qualified REIT subsidiary” is not subject to federal
income tax, and our ownership of the voting stock of a qualified REIT
subsidiary will not violate the restrictions against ownership of securities of
any one issuer which constitute more than 10% of the value or total voting
power of such issuer or more than 5% of the value of our total assets, as
described below under “— Asset Tests.”

If we invest in a partnership, a limited liability
company or a trust taxed as a partnership or as a disregarded entity, we will
be deemed to own a proportionate share of the partnership’s, limited liability
company’s or trust’s assets. Likewise, we will be treated as receiving our
share of the income and loss of the partnership, limited liability company or
trust, and the gross income will retain the same character in our hands as it
has in the hands of the partnership, limited liability company or trust. These
“look-through” rules apply for purposes of the income tests and assets tests
described below.

Income Tests.

There
are two separate percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that
we must satisfy for each taxable year.

•     At least 75% of our gross income (excluding
gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from “rents from real
property,” other income from investments relating to real property or mortgages
on real property or certain income from qualified temporary investments.

•     At least 95% of our gross income (excluding
gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from any of the sources
qualifying for the 75% gross income test and from dividends (including
dividends from taxable REIT subsidiaries) and interest.

As to transactions entered into in taxable years
beginning after October 22, 2004 and on or prior to July 30, 2008, any of
our income from a “clearly identified” hedging transaction that is entered into
by us in the normal course of business, directly or indirectly, to manage the
risk of interest rate movements, price changes or currency fluctuations with
respect to borrowings or obligations incurred or to be incurred by us, or such
other risks that are prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, is excluded
from the 95% gross income test.

For transactions entered into after July 30,
2008, any of our income from a “clearly identified” hedging transaction that is
entered into by us in the normal course of business, directly or indirectly, to
manage the risk of interest rate movements, price changes or currency
fluctuations with respect to borrowings or obligations incurred or to be
incurred by us is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.

For transactions entered into after July 30,
2008, any of our income from a “clearly identified” hedging transaction entered
into by us primarily to manage risk of currency fluctuations with respect to
any item of income or gain that is included in gross income in the 95% and 75%
gross income tests is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.

In general, a hedging transaction is “clearly
identified” if (1) the transaction is identified as a hedging transaction
before the end of the day on which it is entered into and (2) the items or
risks being hedged are identified “substantially contemporaneously” with the
hedging transaction. An identification is not substantially contemporaneous if
it is made more than 35 days after entering into the hedging transaction.

As to gains and items of income recognized after
July 30, 2008, “passive foreign exchange gain” for any taxable year will
not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test and “real
estate foreign exchange gain” for any taxable year will not constitute gross
income for purposes of the 75% gross income test. Real estate foreign exchange
gain is foreign currency gain (as defined in Internal Revenue Code
Section 988(b)(1)) which is attributable to: (i) any qualifying item
of income or gain for purposes of the 75% gross income test; (ii) the
acquisition or ownership of obligations secured by mortgages on real property
or interests in real property; or (iii) becoming or being the obligor
under obligations secured by mortgages on real property or on interests in real
property. Real estate foreign exchange gain also includes Internal Revenue Code
Section 987 gain attributable to a qualified business unit (a “QBU”) of a
REIT if the QBU itself meets the 75% gross income test for the taxable year and
the 75% asset test at the close of each quarter that the REIT has directly or
indirectly held the QBU. Real estate foreign exchange gain also includes any
other foreign currency gain as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Passive foreign exchange gain includes all real estate foreign exchange gain
and foreign currency gain which is attributable to: (i) any qualifying
item of income or gain for purposes of the 95% gross income test; (ii) the
acquisition or ownership of obligations; (iii) becoming or being the obligor
under obligations; and (iv) any other foreign currency gain as determined
by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Generally, other than income from “clearly identified”
hedging transactions entered into by us in the normal course of business, any
foreign currency gain derived by us from dealing, or engaging in substantial
and regular trading, in securities will constitute gross income which does not
qualify under the 95% or 75% gross income tests.


Rents received by us will
qualify as “rents from real property” for purposes of satisfying the gross
income tests for a REIT only if several conditions are met:

•     The amount of rent must not be based in whole or
in part on the income or profits of any person, although rents generally will
not be excluded merely because they are based on a fixed percentage or
percentages of receipts or sales.

•     Rents received from a tenant will not qualify as
rents from real property if the REIT, or an owner of 10% or more of the REIT,
also directly or constructively owns 10% or more of the tenant, unless the
tenant is our taxable REIT subsidiary and certain other requirements are met
with respect to the real property being rented.

•     If rent attributable to personal property leased
in connection with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the total
rent received under the lease, then the portion of rent attributable to such
personal property will not qualify as “rents from real property.”

•     For rents to qualify as rents from real
property, we generally must not furnish or render services to tenants, other
than through a taxable REIT subsidiary or an “independent contractor” from whom
we derive no income, except that we may directly provide services that are
“usually or customarily rendered” in the geographic area in which the property
is located in connection with the rental of real property for occupancy only,
or are not otherwise considered “rendered to the occupant for his convenience.”

•     For taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008,
the REIT may lease

“

qualified health
care

properties”

on an arm’s-length
basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary if the property is operated on behalf of
such subsidiary by a person who

qualifies as an “independent
contractor” and who is, or is related to a person who is, actively engaged in
the trade or business of operating health care facilities for any person
unrelated to us or our taxable REIT subsidiary, an “

eligible
independent contractor

.

”

Generally, the rent that the REIT receives from the
taxable REIT subsidiary will be treated as “rents from real property.”

A “qualified health care property” includes any real property
and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of,
a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care
facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility that
extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and is operated by
a provider of such services that is eligible for participation in the Medicare
program with respect to such facility.

A REIT is permitted to render a de minimis amount of
impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts received with respect
to that property as rent from real property. The amount received or accrued by
the REIT during the taxable year for the impermissible services with respect to
a property may not exceed 1% of all amounts received or accrued by the REIT
directly or indirectly from the property. The amount received for any service
or management operation for this purpose shall be deemed to be not less than
150% of the direct cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or
providing the management or operation. Furthermore, impermissible services may
be furnished to tenants by a taxable REIT subsidiary subject to certain conditions,
and we may still treat rents received with respect to the property as rent from
real property.

The term “interest” generally does not
include any amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in
part on the income or profits of any person, although an amount generally will
not be excluded from the term “interest” solely by reason of being based on a
fixed percentage of receipts or sales.

If we fail to satisfy one or both of
the 75% or 95% gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless
qualify as a REIT for such year if we are eligible for relief.  These relief
provisions generally will be available if (1) following our identification
of the failure, we file a schedule for such taxable year describing each item
of our gross income, and (2) the failure to meet such tests was due to
reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect.

It is not now possible to determine
the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief
provisions. If these relief provisions apply, a 100% tax is imposed on an
amount equal to (a) the gross income attributable to (1) 75% of our
gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75%
income test and (2) 95% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying
gross income for purposes of the 95% income test, multiplied by (b) a
fraction intended to reflect our profitability.

The Secretary of the Treasury is given
broad authority to determine whether particular items of income or gain qualify
or not under the 75% and 95% gross income tests, or are to be excluded from the
measure of gross income for such purposes.

Asset Tests.

Within 30 days after
the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy several
tests relating to the nature and diversification of our assets determined in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. At least 75% of the
value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets, cash, cash
items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of our operation),
government securities and qualified temporary investments. Although the
remaining 25% of our assets generally may be invested without restriction, we
are prohibited from owning securities representing more than 10% of either the vote
(the “10% vote test”) or value (the “10% value test”) of the outstanding
securities of any issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary,


another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Further, no
more than 25% (20% for tax years beginning after 2017) of the total assets may
be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “25%
asset test”) and no more than 5% of the value of our total assets may be
represented by securities of any non-governmental issuer other than a qualified
REIT subsidiary (the “5% asset test”), another REIT or a taxable REIT
subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test and the 25% and 5%
asset tests must be satisfied at the end of each quarter. There are special
rules which provide relief if the value related tests are not satisfied due to
changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.

Certain items are excluded from the
10% value test, including: (1) straight debt securities (as defined in
Internal Revenue Code Section 1361(c)(5)) of an issuer (including straight debt
that provides certain contingent payments); (2) any loan to an individual
or an estate; (3) any rental agreement described in Section 467 of
the Internal Revenue Code, other than with a “related person”; (4) any obligation
to pay rents from real property; (5) certain securities issued by a state
or any subdivision thereof, the District of Columbia, a foreign government, or
any political subdivision thereof, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(6) any security issued by a REIT; and (7) any other arrangement
that, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, is excepted from the
definition of security (“excluded securities”). Special rules apply to straight
debt securities issued by corporations and entities taxable as partnerships for
federal income tax purposes. If a REIT, or its taxable REIT subsidiary, holds
(1) straight debt securities of a corporate or partnership issuer and
(2) securities of such issuer that are not excluded securities and have an
aggregate value greater than 1% of such issuer’s outstanding securities, the
straight debt securities will be included in the 10% value test.

A REIT’s interest as a partner in a
partnership is not treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value
test to securities issued by the partnership. Further, any debt instrument
issued by a partnership will not be a security for purposes of applying the 10%
value test (1) to the extent of the REIT’s interest as a partner in the
partnership and (2) if at least 75% of the partnership’s gross income
(excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would qualify for the 75%
gross income test.  For purposes of the 10% value test, a REIT’s interest in a
partnership’s assets is determined by the REIT’s proportionate interest in any
securities issued by the partnership (other than the excluded securities
described in the preceding paragraph).

For taxable years beginning after
July 30, 2008, if the REIT or its QBU uses a foreign currency as its
functional currency, the term “cash” includes such foreign currency, but only
to the extent such foreign currency is (i) held for use in the normal
course of the activities of the REIT or QBU which give rise to items of income
or gain that are included in the 95% and 75% gross income tests or are directly
related to acquiring or holding assets qualifying under the 75% asset test, and
(ii) not held in connection with dealing or engaging in substantial and
regular trading in securities.

With respect to corrections of
failures as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test or the 5%
asset test, a REIT may avoid disqualification as a REIT by disposing of
sufficient assets to cure a violation that does not exceed the lesser of 1% of
the REIT’s assets at the end of the relevant quarter or $10,000,000, provided
that the disposition occurs within six months following the last day of the
quarter in which the REIT first identified the assets. For violations of any of
the REIT asset tests due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect that
exceed the thresholds described in the preceding sentence, a REIT can avoid
disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter by taking
certain steps, including disposition of sufficient assets within the six month
period described above to meet the applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to
the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net
income generated by the non-qualifying assets during the period of time that
the assets were held as non-qualifying assets and filing a schedule with the
Internal Revenue Service that describes the non-qualifying assets.

Investments in Taxable REIT
Subsidiaries.

REITs may own more than 10% of the voting power and value of securities in
taxable REIT subsidiaries. Unlike a qualified REIT subsidiary, other
disregarded entity or partnership, the income and assets of a taxable REIT
subsidiary are not attributable to the REIT for purposes of satisfying the
income and asset ownership requirements applicable to REIT qualification.  We
and any taxable corporate entity in which we own an interest are allowed to
jointly elect to treat such entity as a “taxable REIT subsidiary.”

Certain of our subsidiaries have
elected to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Taxable REIT subsidiaries
are subject to full corporate level federal taxation on their earnings but are
permitted to engage in certain types of activities that cannot be performed
directly by REITs without jeopardizing their REIT status. Our taxable REIT
subsidiaries will attempt to minimize the amount of these taxes, but there can
be no assurance whether or the extent to which measures taken to minimize taxes
will be successful. To the extent our taxable REIT subsidiaries are required to
pay federal, state or local taxes, the cash available for distribution as
dividends to us from our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be reduced.

The amount of interest on
related-party debt that a taxable REIT subsidiary may deduct is limited.
Further, a 100% tax applies to any interest payments by a taxable REIT
subsidiary to its affiliated REIT to the extent the interest rate is not
commercially reasonable. A taxable REIT subsidiary is permitted to deduct
interest payments to unrelated parties without any of these restrictions.

The Internal Revenue Service may
reallocate costs between a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiary where there is
a lack of arm’s-length dealing between the parties. Any deductible expenses
allocated away from a taxable REIT subsidiary would increase its tax liability.
Further, any amount by which a REIT understates its deductions and overstates
those of its taxable REIT subsidiary may, subject to certain exceptions, be
subject to a 100% tax. Additional taxable REIT subsidiary elections may be made
in the future for additional entities in which we obtain an interest.


Annual Distribution Requirements.

In order to avoid being
taxed as a regular corporation, we are required to make distributions (other
than capital gain distributions) to our stockholders which qualify for the
dividends paid deduction in an amount at least equal to (1) the sum of
(i) 90% of our “REIT taxable income” (computed without regard to the
dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the
after-tax net income, if any, from foreclosure property, minus (2) a
portion of certain items of non-cash income. These distributions must be paid
in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if
declared before we timely file our tax return for that year and if paid on or
before the first regular distribution payment after such declaration.  Prior to
recently enacted legislation, with respect to all REITs the amount distributed
could not be preferential. This means that every stockholder of the class of
stock to which a distribution is made must be treated the same as every other
stockholder of that class, and no class of stock may be treated otherwise than
in accordance with its dividend rights as a class (the “preferential dividend
rule”).  Beginning in tax years after 2014, the preferential dividend rule no
longer applies to publicly offered REITs, however, the rule is still applicable
to other entities taxed as REITs, which would include several of our
subsidiaries.  To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital
gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT taxable
income,” as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at
regular corporate tax rates.  As discussed above, we may be subject to an
excise tax if we fail to meet certain other distribution requirements. We
believe we have satisfied the annual distribution requirements for the year of
our initial REIT election and each year thereafter through the year ended
December 31, 2015. Although we intend to make timely distributions sufficient
to satisfy these annual distribution requirements for subsequent years,
economic, market, legal, tax or other factors could limit our ability to meet
those requirements. See “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”

It is also possible that, from time to
time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90%
distribution requirement, or to distribute such greater amount as may be
necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to, among other things,
(1) timing differences between (i) the actual receipt of income and
actual payment of deductible expenses and (ii) the inclusion of income and
deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or (2) the
payment of severance benefits that may not be deductible to us. In the event
that timing differences occur, we may find it necessary to arrange for
borrowings or, if possible, pay dividends in the form of taxable stock
dividends in order to meet the distribution requirement.

Under certain circumstances, in the
event of a deficiency determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be
able to rectify a resulting failure to meet the distribution requirement for a
year by paying “deficiency dividends” to stockholders in a later year, which
may be included in our deduction for distributions paid for the earlier year.
Thus, we may be able to avoid being taxed on amounts distributed as deficiency
dividends; however, we will be required to pay applicable penalties and
interest based upon the amount of any deduction taken for deficiency dividend
distributions.

Failure to Qualify as a REIT

If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any
taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax, including any
applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate
rates. Distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as
a REIT will not be deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions
be required to be made in any year. All distributions to stockholders will be
taxable as ordinary income to the extent of current and accumulated earnings
and profits allocable to these distributions and, subject to certain
limitations, will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for
corporate stockholders. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory
provisions, we also will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four
taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. It is not
possible to state whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to
statutory relief. Failure to qualify for even one year could result in our need
to incur indebtedness or liquidate investments in order to pay potentially
significant resulting tax liabilities.

In addition to the relief described above under
“— Income Tests” and “— Asset Tests,” relief is available in the
event that we violate a provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would
result in our failure to qualify as a REIT if: (1) the violation is due to
reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we pay a penalty of
$50,000 for each failure to satisfy the provision; and (3) the violation
does not include a violation described under “— Income Tests” or
“— Asset Tests” above. It is not now possible to determine the
circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief
provisions.

Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Our Stock

Treatment of Taxable U.S. Stockholders.

The following summary applies to you only
if you are a “U.S. stockholder.” A “U.S. stockholder” is a holder of
shares of stock who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is:

•     a citizen or resident of the United States;

•     a corporation, partnership or other entity
classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political
subdivision of the United States, including any state;

•     an estate, the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source; or


•     a trust, if, in
general, a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the
trust’s administration and one or more U.S. persons, within the meaning of
the Internal Revenue Code, has the authority to control all of the trust’s
substantial decisions.

So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT,
distributions on shares of our stock made out of the current or accumulated
earnings and profits allocable to these distributions (and not designated as
capital gain dividends) will be includable as ordinary income for federal
income tax purposes. None of these distributions will be eligible for the dividends
received deduction for U.S. corporate stockholders.

Generally, the current maximum marginal rate of tax
payable by individuals on dividends received from corporations that are subject
to a corporate level of tax is 20%. Except in limited circumstances, this tax
rate will not apply to dividends paid to you by us on our shares, because
generally we are not subject to federal income tax on the portion of our REIT
taxable income or capital gains distributed to our stockholders. The reduced
maximum federal income tax rate will apply to that portion, if any, of
dividends received by you with respect to our shares that are attributable to:
(1) dividends received by us from non-REIT corporations or other taxable
REIT subsidiaries; (2) income from the prior year with respect to which we
were required to pay federal corporate income tax during the prior year (if,
for example, we did not distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income for the
prior year); or (3) the amount of any earnings and profits that were distributed
by us and accumulated in a non-REIT year.

Distributions that are designated as capital gain
dividends will be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not
exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year), without regard to the
period for which you held our stock. However, if you are a corporation, you may
be required to treat a portion of some capital gain dividends as ordinary
income.

If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net
long-term capital gain, you would include in income, as long-term capital gain,
your proportionate share of this net long-term capital gain. You would also
receive a refundable tax credit for your proportionate share of the tax paid by
us on such retained capital gains, and you would have an increase in the basis
of your shares of our stock in an amount equal to your includable capital gains
less your share of the tax deemed paid.

You may not include in your federal income tax return
any of our net operating losses or capital losses. Federal income tax rules may
also require that certain minimum tax adjustments and preferences be
apportioned to you. In addition, any distribution declared by us in October,
November or December of any year on a specified date in any such month shall be
treated as both paid by us and received by you on December 31 of that year,
provided that the distribution is actually paid by us no later than January 31
of the following year.

We will be treated as having sufficient earnings and
profits to treat as a dividend any distribution up to the amount required to be
distributed in order to avoid imposition of the 4% excise tax discussed under
“— General” and “— Qualification as a REIT — Annual Distribution
Requirements” above. As a result, you may be required to treat as taxable
dividends certain distributions that would otherwise result in a tax-free
return of capital. Moreover, any “deficiency dividend” will be treated as a
dividend (an ordinary dividend or a capital gain dividend, as the case may be),
regardless of our earnings and profits. Any other distributions in excess of
current or accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to you to the
extent these distributions do not exceed the adjusted tax basis of your shares
of our stock. You will be required to reduce the tax basis of your shares of
our stock by the amount of these distributions until the basis has been reduced
to zero, after which these distributions will be taxable as capital gain, if
the shares of our stock are held as capital assets. The tax basis as so reduced
will be used in computing the capital gain or loss, if any, realized upon sale
of the shares of our stock. Any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our
stock which were held for six months or less (after application of certain holding
period rules) will generally be treated as a long-term capital loss to the
extent you previously received capital gain distributions with respect to these
shares of our stock.

Upon the sale or exchange of any shares of our stock
to or with a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of our
stock (whether actually or constructively owned) with us, you will generally
recognize capital gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount
realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in these shares of
our stock. This gain will be capital gain if you held these shares of our stock
as a capital asset.

If we redeem any of your shares in us, the treatment
can only be determined on the basis of particular facts at the time of redemption.
In general, you will recognize gain or loss (as opposed to dividend income)
equal to the difference between the amount received by you in the redemption
and your adjusted tax basis in your shares redeemed if such redemption:
(1) results in a “complete termination” of your interest in all classes of
our equity securities; (2) is a “substantially disproportionate
redemption”; or (3) is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” with
respect to you. In applying these tests, you must take into account your
ownership of all classes of our equity securities (e.g., common stock,
preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants). You also must take into
account any equity securities that are considered to be constructively owned by
you.


If, as a result of a
redemption by us of your shares, you no longer own (either actually or
constructively) any of our equity securities or only own (actually and
constructively) an insubstantial percentage of our equity securities, then it
is probable that the redemption of your shares would be considered “not
essentially equivalent to a dividend” and, thus, would result in gain or loss
to you. However, whether a distribution is “not essentially equivalent to a
dividend” depends on all of the facts and circumstances, and if you rely on any
of these tests at the time of redemption, you should consult your tax advisor
to determine their application to the particular situation.

Generally, if the redemption does not meet the tests
described above, then the proceeds received by you from the redemption of your
shares will be treated as a distribution taxable as a dividend to the extent of
the allocable portion of current or accumulated earnings and profits. If the
redemption is taxed as a dividend, your adjusted tax basis in the redeemed
shares will be transferred to any other shareholdings in us that you own. If
you own no other shareholdings in us, under certain circumstances, such basis
may be transferred to a related person, or it may be lost entirely.

Gain from the sale or exchange of our
shares held for more than one year is generally taxed at a maximum long-term
capital gain rate of 20% in the case of stockholders who are individuals and
35% in the case of stockholders that are corporations.  Pursuant to Internal
Revenue Service guidance, we may classify portions of our capital gain
dividends as gains eligible for the long-term capital gains rate or as gain
taxable to individual stockholders at a maximum rate of 25%.  Capital losses
recognized by a stockholder upon the disposition of our shares held for more
than one year at the time of disposition will be considered long-term capital
losses, and are generally available only to offset capital gain income of the
stockholder but not ordinary income (except in the case of individuals, who may
offset up to $3,000 of ordinary income each year).

An additional tax
of 3.8% generally will be imposed on the “net investment income” of U.S.
stockholders who meet certain requirements and are individuals, estates or
certain trusts. 
Among other items, “net investment income” generally includes gross income from
dividends and net gain attributable to the disposition of certain property,
such as shares of our common stock or warrants. In the case of individuals,
this tax will only apply to the extent such individual’s modified adjusted
gross income exceeds $200,000 ($250,000 for married couples filing a joint
return and surviving spouses, and $125,000 for married individuals filing a
separate return). U.S. stockholders should consult their tax advisors regarding
the possible applicability of this additional tax in their particular
circumstances.

Treatment of Tax-Exempt U.S. Stockholders.

Tax-exempt
entities, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts and
individual retirement accounts (“Exempt Organizations”), generally are exempt
from federal income taxation. However, they are subject to taxation on their
unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). The Internal Revenue Service has
issued a published revenue ruling that dividend distributions from a REIT to an
exempt employee pension trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares
of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of the
exempt employee pension trust. Based on this ruling, amounts distributed by us
to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an
Exempt Organization finances its acquisition of the shares of our stock with
debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the “debt
financed property” rules. Likewise, a portion of the Exempt Organization’s
income from us would constitute UBTI if we held a residual interest in a real
estate mortgage investment conduit.

In addition, in certain circumstances,
a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our stock is required to treat a
percentage of our dividends as UBTI. This rule applies to a pension trust
holding more than 10% of our stock only if: (1) the percentage of our
income that is UBTI (determined as if we were a pension trust) is at least 5%;
(2) we qualify as a REIT by reason of the modification of the Five or
Fewer Requirement that allows beneficiaries of the pension trust to be treated
as holding shares in proportion to their actuarial interests in the pension
trust; and (3) either (i) one pension trust owns more than 25% of the
value of our stock, or (ii) a group of pension trusts individually holding
more than 10% of the value of our stock collectively own more than 50% of the
value of our stock.

Backup Withholding and Information
Reporting.

Under
certain circumstances, you may be subject to backup withholding at applicable
rates on payments made with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange
of, shares of our stock. Backup withholding will apply only if you: (1) fail
to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an
individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an
incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or
dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury, that you
have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal
Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup
withholding.

Backup withholding will not apply with
respect to payments made to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and
tax-exempt organizations. You should consult with a tax advisor regarding
qualification for exemption from backup withholding, and the procedure for
obtaining an exemption. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather,
the amount of any backup withholding with respect to a payment to a stockholder
will be allowed as a credit against such stockholder’s United States federal income tax liability and may entitle such stockholder to a refund, provided
that the required information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service. In
addition, withholding a portion of capital gain distributions made to
stockholders may be required for stockholders who fail to certify their
non-foreign status.


Taxation
of Foreign Stockholders.

The following summary applies to you only if you are a foreign
person. The federal taxation of foreign persons is a highly complex matter that
may be affected by many considerations.

Except as discussed below,
distributions to you of cash generated by our real estate operations in the
form of ordinary dividends, but not by the sale or exchange of our capital
assets, generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of
30%, unless an applicable tax treaty reduces that tax and you file with us the
required form evidencing the lower rate.

In general, you will be subject to
United States federal income tax on a graduated rate basis rather than
withholding with respect to your investment in our stock if such investment is
“effectively connected” with your conduct of a trade or business in the United
States. A corporate foreign stockholder that receives income that is, or is
treated as, effectively connected with a United States trade or business may
also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is payable in addition to
regular United States corporate income tax. The following discussion will apply
to foreign stockholders whose investment in us is not so effectively connected.
We expect to withhold United States income tax, as described below, on the
gross amount of any distributions paid to you unless (1) you file an
Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI with us claiming that the distribution
is “effectively connected” or (2) certain other exceptions apply.

Distributions by us that are
attributable to gain from the sale or exchange of a United States real property
interest will be taxed to you under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax
Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if these distributions were gains “effectively
connected” with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, you will be
taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. stockholder on these amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a
special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals.
Distributions subject to FIRPTA may also be subject to a branch profits tax in
the hands of a corporate foreign stockholder that is not entitled to treaty
exemption.

We will be required to withhold from distributions
subject to FIRPTA, and remit to the Internal Revenue Service, 35% of designated
capital gain dividends, or, if greater, 35% of the amount of any distributions
that could be designated as capital gain dividends. In addition, if we
designate prior distributions as capital gain dividends, subsequent
distributions, up to the amount of the prior distributions not withheld
against, will be treated as capital gain dividends for purposes of withholding.

Any capital gain dividend with respect to any class of
stock that is “regularly traded” on an established securities market will be
treated as an ordinary dividend if the foreign stockholder did not own more
than 10% of such class of stock at any time during the taxable year. Foreign
stockholders generally will not be required to report distributions received
from us on U.S. federal income tax returns and all distributions treated
as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes (including any such
capital gain dividends) will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax
(unless reduced under an applicable income tax treaty) as discussed above. In
addition, the branch profits tax will not apply to such distributions.

Unless our shares constitute a “United States real
property interest” within the meaning of FIRPTA or are effectively connected
with a U.S. trade or business, a sale of our shares by you generally will
not be subject to United States taxation. Though, under the Protecting Americans
from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 (the “PATH Act”), enacted on December 18, 2015, even
if our shares were to constitute a “United States real property interest,”
non-U.S. stockholders that are “qualified foreign pension funds” (or are owned
by a qualified foreign pension) meeting certain requirements may be exempt from
FIRPTA withholding on the sale or disposition of our shares. Our shares will
not constitute a United States real property interest if we qualify as a
“domestically controlled REIT.” We believe that we, and expect to continue to,
qualify as a domestically controlled REIT. A domestically controlled REIT is a
REIT in which at all times during a specified testing period less than 50% in
value of its shares is held directly or indirectly by foreign stockholders.
Generally, under the PATH Act, we are permitted to assume that holders of less
than 5% of our shares at all times during a specified testing period are U.S.
persons.  However, if you are a nonresident alien individual who is present in
the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year and certain
other conditions apply, you will be subject to a 30% tax on such capital gains.
In any event, a purchaser of our shares from you will not be required under
FIRPTA to withhold on the purchase price if the purchased shares are “regularly
traded” on an established securities market or if we are a domestically
controlled REIT. Otherwise, under FIRPTA, the purchaser may be required to
withhold 10% (increased to 15% under the PATH Act for distributions occurring
after February 16, 2016) of the purchase price and remit such amount to the
Internal Revenue Service.

Backup withholding tax and information reporting will
generally not apply to distributions paid to you outside the United States that
are treated as: (1) dividends to which the 30% or lower treaty rate
withholding tax discussed above applies; (2) capital gains dividends; or
(3) distributions attributable to gain from the sale or exchange by us of
U.S. real property interests. Payment of the proceeds of a sale of stock
within the United States or conducted through certain U.S. related
financial intermediaries is subject to both backup withholding and information
reporting unless the beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that
he or she is not a U.S. person (and the payor does not have actual
knowledge that the beneficial owner is a U.S. person) or otherwise
established an exemption. You may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under
the backup withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund with
the Internal Revenue Service.

Withholding tax at a rate of 30% will be imposed on certain payments to you or
certain foreign financial institutions (including investment funds) and other
non-US persons receiving payments on your behalf, including distributions in
respect of shares of our


stock and gross proceeds from
the sale of shares of our stock, if you or such institutions fail to comply
with certain due diligence, disclosure and reporting rules, as set forth in recently
issued Treasury regulations. Accordingly, the entity through which shares of
our stock are held will affect the determination of whether such withholding is
required. Withholding currently applies to payments of dividends made after
June 30, 2014, and will apply to payments of gross proceeds from a sale of
shares of our stock made after December 31, 2018.  Stockholders that are
otherwise eligible for an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. withholding
taxes with respect to such dividends and proceeds will be required to seek a
refund from the Internal Revenue Service to obtain the benefit of such
exemption or reduction.  Additional requirements and conditions may be imposed
pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement, if and when entered into, between
the United States and such institution’s home jurisdiction. We will not pay any
additional amounts to any stockholders in respect of any amounts withheld. You
are encouraged to consult with your tax advisor regarding U.S. withholding
taxes and the application of the recently issued Treasury regulations in light
of your particular circumstances.

U.S. Federal Income
Taxation of Holders of Depositary Shares

Owners of our depositary shares will be treated as if
you were owners of the series of preferred stock represented by the depositary
shares. Thus, you will be required to take into account the income and
deductions to which you would be entitled if you were a holder of the
underlying series of preferred stock.

Conversion or Exchange of Shares for Preferred Stock.

No gain or loss will be recognized upon
the withdrawal of preferred stock in exchange for depositary shares and the tax
basis of each share of preferred stock will, upon exchange, be the same as the
aggregate tax basis of the depositary shares exchanged. If you held your
depositary shares as a capital asset at the time of the exchange for shares of
preferred stock, the holding period for your shares of preferred stock will
include the period during which you owned the depositary shares.

U.S. Federal Income
and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Debt Securities

The following is a general summary of the United
States federal income tax consequences and, in the case that you are a holder
that is a non-U.S. holder, as defined below, the United States federal
estate tax consequences, of purchasing, owning and disposing of debt securities
periodically offered under one or more indentures (the “notes”). This summary
assumes that you hold the notes as capital assets. This summary applies to you
only if you are the initial holder of the notes and you acquire the notes for a
price equal to the issue price of the notes. The issue price of the notes is
the first price at which a substantial amount of the notes is sold other than
to bond houses, brokers or similar persons or organizations acting in the
capacity of underwriters, placement agents or wholesalers. In addition, this
summary does not consider any foreign, state, local or other tax laws that may
be applicable to us or a purchaser of the notes.

U.S. Holders

The following summary applies to you only if you are a
  U.S. holder, as defined below.

Definition of a U.S. Holder.

A “U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner
of a note or notes that is for United States federal income tax purposes:

•     a citizen or resident of the United States;

•     a corporation, partnership or other entity
classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political
subdivision of the United States, including any state;

•     an estate, the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source; or

•     a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is
able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or
more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has
the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial decisions.

Payments of Interest.

Stated interest on the notes generally
will be taxed as ordinary interest income from domestic sources at the time it
is paid or accrues in accordance with your method of accounting for tax
purposes.

Sale,
Exchange or Other Disposition of Notes.

The
adjusted tax basis in your note acquired at a premium will generally be your
cost. You generally will recognize taxable gain or loss when you sell or
otherwise dispose of your notes equal to the difference, if any, between:

•     the amount realized on the sale or other
disposition, less any amount attributable to any accrued interest, which will be
taxable


in the manner described under “— Payments
of Interest” above; and

•     your adjusted tax basis in the notes.

Your gain or loss generally will be capital gain or
loss. This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if at
the time of the sale or other disposition you have held the notes for more than
one year. Subject to limited exceptions, your capital losses cannot be used to
offset your ordinary income (except in the case of individuals, who may offset
up to $3,000 of ordinary income each year).

Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.

In general, “backup withholding” may apply
to any payments made to you of principal and interest on your note, and to
payment of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of your note before
maturity, if you are a non-corporate U.S. holder and: (1) fail to
provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an
individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an
incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or
dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury, that you
have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal
Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup
withholding.

The amount of any reportable payments, including
interest, made to you (unless you are an exempt recipient) and the amount of
tax withheld, if any, with respect to such payments will be reported to you and
to the Internal Revenue Service for each calendar year. You should consult your
tax advisor regarding your qualification for an exemption from backup
withholding and the procedures for obtaining such an exemption, if applicable.
The backup withholding tax is not an additional tax and will be credited
against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided that correct
information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service.

Non-U.S. Holders

The following summary applies to you if you are a
beneficial owner of a note and are not a U.S. holder, as defined above (a
“non-U.S. holder”).

Special rules may apply to certain
non-U.S. holders such as “controlled foreign corporations,” “passive
foreign investment companies” and “foreign personal holding companies.” Such
entities are encouraged to consult their tax advisors to determine the United States federal, state, local and other tax consequences that may be relevant to
them.

U.S. Federal
Withholding Tax.

Subject
to the discussion below, U.S. federal withholding tax will not apply to
payments by us or our paying agent, in its capacity as such, of principal and
interest on your notes under the “portfolio interest” exception of the Internal
Revenue Code, provided that:

•     you do not, directly or indirectly, actually or
constructively, own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all
classes of our stock entitled to vote;

•     you are not (1) a controlled foreign
corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is related, directly
or indirectly, to us through sufficient stock ownership, as provided in the
Internal Revenue Code, or (2) a bank receiving interest described in
Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code;

•     such interest is not effectively connected with
your conduct of a U.S. trade or business; and

•     you provide a signed written statement, under
penalties of perjury, which can reliably be related to you, certifying that you
are not a U.S. person within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code and providing
your name and address to:

•      us or our paying agent; or

•

a securities clearing
organization, bank or other financial institution that holds customers’
securities in the ordinary course of its trade or business and holds your notes
on your behalf and that certifies to us or our paying agent under penalties of
perjury that it, or the bank or financial institution between it and you, has
received from you your signed, written statement and provides us or our paying
agent with a copy of such statement.

Treasury regulations provide that:

•     if you are a foreign partnership, the
certification requirement will generally apply to your partners, and you will
be required to provide certain information;


•     if you are a foreign
trust, the certification requirement will generally be applied to you or your
beneficial owners depending on whether you are a “foreign complex trust,”
“foreign simple trust,” or “foreign grantor trust” as defined in the Treasury
regulations; and

•     look-through rules will apply for tiered
partnerships, foreign simple trusts and foreign grantor trusts.

If you are a foreign partnership or a foreign trust,
you should consult your own tax advisor regarding your status under these
Treasury regulations and the certification requirements applicable to you.

If you cannot satisfy the portfolio interest
requirements described above, payments of interest will be subject to the 30%
United States withholding tax, unless you provide us with a properly executed
(1) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming an exemption from
or reduction in withholding under the benefit of an applicable treaty or
(2) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI stating that interest paid
on the note is not subject to withholding tax because it is effectively
connected with your conduct of a trade or business in the United States.
Alternative documentation may be applicable in certain circumstances.

If you are engaged in a trade or business in the
United States and interest on a note is effectively connected with the conduct
of that trade or business, you will be required to pay United States federal
income tax on that interest on a net income basis (although you will be exempt
from the 30% withholding tax provided the certification requirement described
above is met) in the same manner as if you were a U.S. person, except as
otherwise provided by an applicable tax treaty. If you are a foreign
corporation, you may be required to pay a branch profits tax on the earnings and
profits that are effectively connected to the conduct of your trade or business
in the United States.

Withholding tax at a rate of 30% will be imposed on payments of interest
(including original issue discount) and gross proceeds of sale in respect of
debt instruments to you or certain foreign financial institutions (including
investment funds) and other non-US persons receiving payments on your behalf,
if you or such institutions fail to comply with certain due diligence,
disclosure and reporting rules, as set forth in recently issued Treasury
regulations. However, the Treasury regulations generally exempt from such
withholding requirement obligations, such as debt instruments, issued before
July 1, 2014, provided that any material modification of such an obligation
made after such date will result in such obligation being considered newly
issued as of the effective date of such modification. These withholding rules
are generally effective with respect to payments of interest made after June
30, 2014, and with respect to proceeds of sales received after December 31,
2018. We will not pay any additional amounts to any holders or our debt
instruments in respect of any amounts withheld. You are encouraged to consult
with your tax advisor regarding U.S. withholding taxes and the application of
the recently issued Treasury regulations in light of your particular
circumstances.

Sale, Exchange or other Disposition of Notes.

You generally will not have to pay U.S. federal income tax on any gain or income realized from the sale, redemption,
retirement at maturity or other disposition of your notes, unless:

•     in the case of gain, you are an individual who
is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable
year of the sale or other disposition of your notes, and specific other
conditions are met;

•     you are subject to tax provisions applicable to
certain United States expatriates; or

•     the gain is effectively connected with your
conduct of a U.S. trade or business.

If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and gain with respect to your notes is effectively connected with the conduct of that
trade or business, you generally will be subject to U.S. income tax on a
net basis on the gain. In addition, if you are a foreign corporation, you may
be subject to a branch profits tax on your effectively connected earnings and
profits for the taxable year, as adjusted for certain items.

U.S. Federal
Estate Tax.

If you are an
individual and are not a U.S. citizen or a resident of the United States,
as specially defined for U.S. federal estate tax purposes, at the time of
your death, your notes will generally not be subject to the U.S. federal
estate tax, unless, at the time of your death (1) you owned actually or
constructively 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all our
classes of stock entitled to vote, or (2) interest on the notes is
effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business.

Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.

Backup withholding will not apply to
payments of principal or interest made by us or our paying agent, in its
capacity as such, to you if you have provided the required certification that
you are a non-U.S. holder as described in “— U.S. Federal
Withholding Tax” above, and provided that neither we nor our paying agent have
actual knowledge that you are a U.S. holder, as described in
“— U.S. Holders” above. We or our paying agent may, however, report
payments of interest on the notes.


The gross proceeds from
the disposition of your notes may be subject to information reporting and
backup withholding tax. If you sell your notes outside the United States through a non-U.S. office of a non-U.S. broker and the sales proceeds are
paid to you outside the United States, then the U.S. backup withholding
and information reporting requirements generally will not apply to that
payment. However, U.S. information reporting, but not backup withholding,
will apply to a payment of sales proceeds, even if that payment is made outside
the United States, if you sell your notes through a non-U.S. office of a
broker that:

•     is a U.S. person, as defined in the
Internal Revenue Code;

•     derives 50% or more of its gross income in
specific periods from the conduct of a trade or business in the United States;

•     is a “controlled foreign corporation” for U.S. federal income tax purposes; or

•     is a foreign partnership, if at any time during
its tax year, one or more of its partners are U.S. persons who in the
aggregate hold more than 50% of the income or capital interests in the
partnership, or the foreign partnership is engaged in a U.S. trade or
business, unless the broker has documentary evidence in its files that you are
a non-U.S. person and certain other conditions are met or you otherwise establish
an exemption. If you receive payments of the proceeds of a sale of your notes
to or through a U.S. office of a broker, the payment is subject to both U.S. backup withholding and information reporting unless you provide a
Form W-8BEN certifying that you are a non-U.S. person or you
otherwise establish an exemption.

You should consult your own tax advisor regarding
application of backup withholding in your particular circumstance and the
availability of and procedure for obtaining an exemption from backup
withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules from a
payment to you will be allowed as a refund or credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided the required information is furnished to
the Internal Revenue Service.

U.S. Federal Income
and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Warrants

Exercise of Warrants.

You will not generally recognize gain or
loss upon the exercise of a warrant. Your basis in the debt securities,
preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be,
received upon the exercise of the warrant will be equal to the sum of your
adjusted tax basis in the warrant and the exercise price paid. Your holding
period in the debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock,
as the case may be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will not include
the period during which the warrant was held by you.

Expiration of Warrants.

Upon the expiration of a warrant, you will
recognize a capital loss in an amount equal to your adjusted tax basis in the
warrant.

Sale or
Exchange of Warrants.

Upon
the sale or exchange of a warrant to a person other than us, you will recognize
gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized
on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in the warrant. Such gain
or loss will be capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss
if the warrant was held for more than one year. Upon the sale of the warrant to
us, the Internal Revenue Service may argue that you should recognize ordinary
income on the sale. You are advised to consult your own tax advisors as to the
consequences of a sale of a warrant to us.

Potential Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax
Consequences

Current and prospective securities holders should
recognize that the present federal income tax treatment of an investment in us
may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time
and that any such action may affect investments and commitments previously
made. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under
review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal
Revenue Service and the Treasury Department, resulting in revisions of
regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts as well as
statutory changes. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations of these
laws could adversely affect the tax consequences of an investment in us.

State, Local and Foreign Taxes

We, and holders of our debt and equity securities, may
be subject to state, local or foreign taxation in various jurisdictions,
including those in which we or they transact business, own property or reside.
It should be noted that we own properties located in a number of state, local and
foreign jurisdictions, and may be required to file tax returns in some or all
of those jurisdictions. The state, local or foreign tax treatment of us and
holders of our debt and equity securities may not conform to the U.S. federal
income tax consequences discussed above. Consequently, you are urged to consult
your advisor regarding the application and effect of state, local and foreign
tax laws with respect to any investment in our securities.

Changes in applicable tax regulations could negatively affect our financial
results.


The Company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and
numerous foreign jurisdictions. Because the U.S. maintains a worldwide
corporate tax system, the foreign and U.S. tax systems are somewhat
interdependent. Longstanding international tax norms that determine each
country’s jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving,
such as the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project (“BEPS") currently
being undertaken by the G8, G20, and Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  Tax changes pursuant to BEPS could reduce the ability of our
foreign subsidiaries to deduct for foreign tax purposes the interest they pay
on loans from the Company, thereby increasing the foreign tax liability of the
subsidiaries; it is also possible that foreign countries could increase their
withholding taxes on dividends and interest. Given the unpredictability of
these possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is very
difficult to assess the overall effect of such potential tax changes on our
earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial
results.

Internet Access to Our SEC Filings

Our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as our proxy
statements and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission are made available, free of charge, on the
Internet at www.welltower.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. We
routinely post important information on our website at

www.welltower.com

in
the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and
financial information.  We intend to use our website as a means of
disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our
disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included
on our website under the heading “Investors.”  Accordingly, investors
should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press
releases, public conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The information on our website is not incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included
as an inactive textual reference only.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form
10-K and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that
constitute “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in the federal
securities laws. When we use words such as “may,” “will,” “intend,” “should,”
“believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “estimate” or similar expressions
that do not relate solely to historical matters, we are making forward-looking
statements. In particular, these forward-looking statements include, but are
not limited to, those relating to our opportunities to acquire, develop or sell
properties; our ability to close our anticipated acquisitions, investments or
dispositions on currently anticipated terms, or within currently anticipated
timeframes; the expected performance of our operators/tenants and properties;
our expected occupancy rates; our ability to declare and to make distributions
to stockholders; our investment and financing opportunities and plans; our
continued qualification as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”); and our
ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds.

Forward-looking statements are
not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that
may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations
discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various
factors, including, but not limited to:

•

the status of the economy;

•

the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of
capital;

•

issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and
changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government
investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in
cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other
insurance;

•

changes in financing terms;

•

competition within the health care and seniors housing industries;

•

negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of
operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and
repay loans;

•

our ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results;

•

the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when
anticipated;

•

natural disasters and other acts of God affecting our properties;

•

our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;

•

our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets
sold;

•

operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies;

•

the cooperation of joint venture partners;

•

government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement
rates and operational requirements;

•

liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants;

•

unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future
investments or acquisitions;

•

environmental laws affecting our properties;


•

changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;

•

the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates;

•

our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT;

•

key management personnel recruitment and retention; and

•

the risks described under “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”

We undertake no obligation to
update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of
new information, future events, or otherwise.

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

This section discusses the
most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial
condition. It does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us,
our industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks, as
well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we
currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially
adversely affected. In that event, the value of our securities could decline.

We group these risk factors
into three categories:

•

Risks arising from our business;

•

Risks arising from our capital structure; and

•

Risks arising from our status as a REIT.

Risks Arising from Our Business

Our investments in and
acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful
or fail to meet our expectations

We are exposed to the risk
that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could
encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired
properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might
require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our
ongoing business. If we agree to provide construction funding to an
operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to
ensure completion of the project. Such expenditures may negatively affect our
results of operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our
anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to
various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing,
on anticipated terms, or at all.  We also may be unable to quickly and
efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios
of properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an adverse
effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Our investments in joint
ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over
these investments, our partners’ insolvency or failure to meet their
obligations and disputes between us and our partners

We have entered into, and may
continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other
persons or entities. Joint venture investments involve risks that may not be
present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our
partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due
or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain
liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might
at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or
become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in
a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional
resources to resolve such dispute and could have an adverse impact on the
operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be
in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions
or requests. In addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint
venture to a third party may be restricted. In some instances, we and/or our
partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause
us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner’s interest, at a time when we
otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire
our partner’s interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available
borrowing capacity or other capital resources. In such event, we may be forced
to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to
retain it. Joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority
with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the properties in
the joint ventures. Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major
decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or
financing of a property.

We are exposed to operational
risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that could
adversely affect our revenue and operations


We are exposed to various
operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that
may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues.
These risks include fluctuations in occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions;
competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure,
certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability
and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage;
state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the availability
and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise).
Any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and
operations.

Decreases in our operators’
revenues or increases in our operators’ expenses could affect our operators’
ability to make payments to us

Our operators’ revenues are
primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement, if applicable. Expenses for these facilities are primarily
driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or
debt service. Revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to,
come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls.
Operating costs continue to increase for our operators. To the extent that any
decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a
property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our
operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. To the
extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an
impairment for such asset. Furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an
underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. Any such impairment
or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results.

Increased competition may
affect our operators’ ability to meet their obligations to

us

The operators of our
properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties
and other health care providers that provide comparable services. We cannot be
certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and
maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their
obligations to us. Our operators are expected to encounter increased
competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract residents
or expand their businesses.

A severe cold and flu season,
epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the
occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net properties

Our and our operators’
revenues are dependent on occupancy.  It is impossible to predict the severity
of the cold and flu season or the occurrence of epidemics or any other
widespread illnesses.  The occupancy of our seniors housing operating and
triple-net properties could significantly decrease in the event of a severe
cold and flu season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness.  Such a
decrease could affect the operating income of our seniors housing operating
properties and the ability of our triple-net operators to make payments to us.

The insolvency or bankruptcy
of our obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition

We are exposed to the risk
that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or
other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency,
or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings
for other reasons. Although our operating lease agreements provide us with the
right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other
remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding
obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest,
foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and
insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy
or reorganization. An obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency
proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in
the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of
a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies.

We may be required to fund
certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the
value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property
and/or transition a property to a new tenant. In some instances, we have
terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. In
some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited
indemnification of the new obligor. If we cannot transition a leased property
to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us
to certain successor liabilities. Should such events occur, our revenue and
operating cash flow may be adversely affected.

We may not be able to timely
reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us

From time to time, we will
have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2)
principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties,
including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar
financial support arrangements. In order to maintain current revenues and
continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these


proceeds in a timely manner. We compete for real estate
investments with a broad variety of potential investors. This competition for
attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely
investments on terms acceptable to us.

Failure to properly manage
our rapid growth could distract our management or increase

our
expenses

We have experienced rapid
growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to
continue this rapid growth in the future. This growth has resulted in increased
levels of responsibility for our management. Future property acquisitions could
place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our
management, resources and personnel. Our failure to manage any such rapid
growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect
our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our growth could also
increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially
dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt.

We depend on Genesis
Healthcare, LLC (“Genesis”) for a significant portion of our revenues and any
inability or unwillingness by Genesis to satisfy its obligations under its
agreements with us could adversely affect us

The properties we lease to Genesis
account for a significant portion of our revenues, and because our leases with
Genesis are triple-net leases, we also depend on Genesis to pay all insurance,
taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the
leased properties. We cannot assure you that Genesis will have sufficient
assets, income and access to financing to enable it to make rental payments to
us or to otherwise satisfy its obligations under our leases, and any inability
or unwillingness by Genesis to do so could have an adverse effect on us.
Genesis has also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and
against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with
its business, and we cannot assure you that Genesis will have sufficient
assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable it to
satisfy its indemnification obligations.

The properties managed by
Sunrise Senior Living, LLC account for a significant portion of our revenues
and operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial
condition could adversely affect us

Sunrise Senior Living, LLC
manages our entire Sunrise property portfolio, which as of December 31, 2015,
consisted of 152 seniors housing properties.  These properties account for a
significant portion of our revenues, and we rely on Sunrise Senior Living, LLC
to manage these properties efficiently and effectively.  Any adverse
developments in Sunrise Senior Living, LLC’s business or financial condition
could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively,
which could adversely affect us.

Ownership of property outside
the United States may subject us to different or greater risks than those
associated with our domestic operations

We have operations in Canada
and the United Kingdom. International development, ownership, and operating
activities involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to
our domestic properties and operations. These risks include, but are not limited
to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in
exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross
income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our
status as a REIT;

challenges with respect to
the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; changes in foreign political,
regulatory, and economic conditions, including regionally, nationally, and
locally; challenges in managing international operations; challenges of complying
with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating
to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and legal
proceedings;

foreign ownership
restrictions with respect to operations in countries; differences in lending
practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide
financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and economic
instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the
United States that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to,
the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If we are unable to successfully manage
the risks associated with international expansion and operations, our results
of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.

We do not know if our tenants
will renew their existing leases, and if they do not,

we may be
unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all

We cannot predict whether our
tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which
expire at various times. If these leases are not renewed, we would be required
to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. There can be no
assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or
enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current
leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all.

Our operators’ may not have the necessary
insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses

In recent years,
long-term/post-acute care and seniors housing operators have experienced
substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability
claims. As a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in
some markets. General and professional liability insurance coverage may be
restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators’


future

operations,
cash flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on
the property operators’ ability to meet their obligations to us.

Our ownership of properties
through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such

properties
upon breach or termination of the ground leases

We have acquired an interest
in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property
on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in
the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. As the lessee
under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property
upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease
by us.

The requirements of, or
changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare or Medicaid,
could have a material adverse effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial
condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors’
ability to meet their obligations to us

Some of our obligors’
businesses are affected by government reimbursement. To the extent that an
operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government
payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to
statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of
program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings,
policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or
carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect
to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any
ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. In recent years,
government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due
to budgetary pressures. Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of
paramount importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any
assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms
may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. There can
be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for
services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives
reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on
the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have
a material adverse effect on an obligor’s liquidity, financial condition and
results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor
to meet its obligations to us. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government
Regulations — United States — Reimbursement” above.

The Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act of 2010, as modified by the Health Care and Education
Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Health Reform Laws”), provides
those states that expand their Medicaid coverage to otherwise eligible state
residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an
increased federal medical assistance percentage, effective January 1, 2014,
when certain conditions are met. On June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme
Court upheld the individual mandate of the Health Reform Laws but partially
invalidated the expansion of Medicaid. The ruling on Medicaid expansion allows
states to elect not to participate in the expansion—and to forego funding for
the Medicaid expansion—without losing their existing Medicaid funding. Given
that the federal government substantially funds the Medicaid expansion, it is
unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of
early February 2016, roughly half of the states have expanded Medicaid
coverage. The participation by states in the Medicaid expansion could have the
dual effect of increasing our tenants’ revenues, through new patients, but
further straining state budgets and their ability to pay our tenants. While the
federal government will pay for approximately 100% of those additional costs
from 2014 through 2016, states will be expected to pay for part of those
additional costs beginning in 2017. In light of this, at least one state that
has passed legislation to allow the state to expand its Medicaid coverage has
included sunset provisions in the legislation that require that the expanded
benefits be reduced or eliminated if the federal government’s funding for the
program is decreased or eliminated, permitting the state to re-visit the issue
once it begins to share financial responsibility for the expansion. With
increasingly strained budgets, it is unclear how states that do not include
such sunset provisions will pay their share of these additional Medicaid costs
and what other health care expenditures could be reduced as a result. A
significant reduction in other health care related spending by states to pay
for increased Medicaid costs could affect our tenants’ revenue streams. See
“Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States —
Reimbursement” above.

More generally, and because of
the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health
care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and
budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching
legislative or regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business
or that of our operators and tenants.

Our operators’ or tenants’
failure to comply with federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure,
certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely
affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could adversely affect our
operators’ and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us

Our operators and tenants
generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and
industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations,
and standards. Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with any of these
laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial
of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion
from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the
facility. Such actions may have an effect on


our
operators’ or tenants’ ability to make lease payments to us and, therefore,
adversely impact us. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations —
United States — Other Related Laws, Initiatives, and Considerations” above.

Many of our properties may
require a license, registration, and/or certificate of need (“CON”) to operate.
Failure to obtain a license, registration, or CON, or loss of a required
license, registration, or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the
manner intended by the operators or tenants. These events could materially
adversely affect our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make rent payments to
us. State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the
addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the
construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a CON or
other similar approval from a state agency. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain
Government Regulations — United States — Licensing and Certification” above.

Illiquidity of real estate
investments could significantly impede our ability to

respond to
adverse changes in the performance of our properties

Real estate investments are
relatively illiquid. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our
properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be
limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any
property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to
respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could

adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations. In addition, we are exposed to the risks
inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the
seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate
industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to
sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us.

Unfavorable resolution of
pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition

From time to time, we may be
directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims.
We may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our
actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such
operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us
harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in
connection with their respective businesses. An unfavorable resolution of
pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of its
outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and
significantly divert the attention of management. There can be no assurance
that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of,
pending or future litigation. In addition, pending litigation or future
litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to
increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations.

Development, redevelopment
and construction risks could affect our profitability

At any given time, we may be
in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will
require a CON and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their
intended use. The operator also may need to obtain Medicare and Medicaid
certification and enter into Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements and/or
third party payor contracts. In the event that the operator is unable to obtain
the necessary CON, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts
after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able
to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains
a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary
provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator
that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use
and the necessary provider agreements or contracts.

In connection with our
renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we
may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning,
land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and
authorizations. These factors could result in increased costs or our
abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may not be able to obtain
financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our
development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and
lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt
service expense or construction costs.

Additionally, the time frame
required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means
that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. Because we are required
to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from
operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow
additional money to fund such distributions. Newly developed and acquired
properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely
affect our overall financial performance.

In deciding whether to acquire
or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected
future performance of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on
our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs. If
our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a
result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the property may fail to
perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs
of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be
inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals.
Additionally, we may


acquire new properties that are
not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be
insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with
that property.

We may
experience losses caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters,
which could result in an increase of our or our tenants’ cost of insurance, a
decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we
have invested in a property

We maintain
or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our
properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are
appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage, and we
continually review our insurance programs and requirements. However, a large
number of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to
revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or
natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and floods. We
believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside
consultants, that our and our tenants’ insurance coverage is appropriate to
cover reasonably anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes,
earthquakes, tornadoes, floods and other severe weather conditions and natural
disasters. Nevertheless, we are always subject to the risk that such insurance
will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity of the event and
the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a significant portion
of the losses. These losses may lead to an increase of our and our tenants’
cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from an affected
property and a loss of all or a portion of the capital we have invested in an
affected property.  In addition, we or our tenants may not purchase insurance
under certain circumstances if the cost of insurance exceeds, in our or our
tenants’ judgment, the value of the coverage relative to the risk of loss.

We may incur costs to
remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an
adverse effect on our or our obligors’ business or financial condition

Under various federal and
state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to
the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held
liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from
environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. We may become
liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in
connection with the contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a
person based on the person’s relationship to the property. Our tenants or
borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property.
Moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we
own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are
designed to meet the “all appropriate inquiry” standard, which we believe
qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities
arise. Based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our
properties are subject to material environmental contamination. However,
environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur costs
to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of our
obligors.

Cybersecurity incidents could
disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information

Our business is at risk from
and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain
unauthorized access to our confidential data, and other electronic security
breaches. Such cyber attacks can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized
access to our information technology systems to more sophisticated security
threats. While we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate
these threats, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in
preventing a cyber attack. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business
and compromise the confidential information of our employees, operators and
tenants.

Our certificate of
incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions

Our certificate of incorporation
and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on share ownership
and transfer and super majority stockholder approval requirements for business
combinations) that could make it more difficult for or even prevent a third
party from acquiring us without the approval of our incumbent Board of
Directors. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or discourage takeover
attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock.

Our success depends on key
personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed

We are dependent on key
personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our
executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an
adverse impact on our operations. We believe that losing more than one could
have a material adverse impact on our business.

Risks Arising from Our Capital
Structure

We may become more leveraged


Permanent financing for our investments is typically provided through a
combination of public offerings of debt and equity securities and the
incurrence or assumption of secured debt. The incurrence or assumption of
indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us
to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service,
(2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability
to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our credit ratings or
outlook by one or more of the rating agencies.

We are subject to covenants
in our debt agreements that may restrict or limit our operations and
acquisitions and our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt
agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of
operations and financial condition

Our debt agreements contain
various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things,
these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum
net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness,
create liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants
could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable
indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against
such instruments. These defaults could have a material adverse impact on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

Limitations on our ability to
access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future
investments or to meet our obligations and commitments

We cannot assure you that we
will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to
meet our obligations and commitments as they mature.  Our access to capital
depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control, including
rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions; the
market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential
future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our
capital stock and the credit ratings of our debt securities; the financial
stability of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their
commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us; changes
in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities; or default or delay
in payment by the United States of its obligations. If our access to capital is
limited by these factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our
ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations
or make distributions to our stockholders.

Downgrades in our credit
ratings could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of
capital

We plan to manage the Company
to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there
can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit
ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the
rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and
availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on
our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.

Fluctuations in the value of
foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and
financial position

As we expand our operations
internationally, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results
of operations and financial position. We expect to generate an increasing
portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the Canadian
dollar and the British pound. Although we may enter into foreign exchange
agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage
debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign
currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not
have a material adverse effect on us.

Our entry into swap
agreements may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates
or foreign currency exchange rates

We enter into swap agreements
from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign
currency exchange rate volatility. These swap agreements involve risks, such as
the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these
arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing
our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates.
When we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will
not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to
hedge. If such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely
affected.

Risks Arising from Our Status as
a REIT

We might fail to qualify or
remain qualified as a REIT

We intend to operate as a REIT
under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and believe
we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. If we lose our status as
a REIT, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially
reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution
to our stockholders because:


•

we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in
computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at
regular corporate rates;

•

we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly
increased state and local taxes; and

•

unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could
not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the
year during which we were disqualified.

Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a
number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill
them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of U.S. federal
and other income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the
amount we could distribute to our stockholders. If we do not qualify as a REIT,
we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-REIT
is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain REIT
status or avoid an excise tax. See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal
Income Tax Considerations” above for a discussion of the provisions of the Code
that apply to us and the effects of failure to qualify as a REIT.

In addition, if we fail to
qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be
treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and
profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends
received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at
the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a
maximum rate of 20%) with respect to distributions.

As a result of all these
factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to
implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our
common stock.

Qualification as a REIT
involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for
which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The
determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within
our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we
believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue
to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations” above.

Certain subsidiaries might
fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT

We own interests in a number
of entities which have elected to be taxed as REITs for federal income tax
purposes, some of which we consolidate for financial reporting purposes but each
of which is treated as a separate REIT for federal income tax purposes (each a
“Subsidiary REIT”).  To qualify as a REIT, each Subsidiary REIT must
independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements under the
Code, together with all other rules applicable to REITs.  Provided that each
Subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT, our interests in the Subsidiary REITs will
be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the REIT asset
tests.  See “Item 1 – Business – Taxation – Federal Income Tax Considerations –
Qualification as a REIT – Asset Tests” above.  If a Subsidiary REIT fails to
qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, such Subsidiary REIT will be subject to
federal and state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for the
four subsequent taxable years.  Any such failure could have an adverse effect
on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our
ability to qualify as a REIT, unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain
relief provisions.

The 90% annual distribution
requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in
otherwise beneficial transactions

To comply with the 90%
distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible
excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. See “Item 1 —
Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification as a REIT
— Annual Distribution Requirements” above. Although we anticipate that we
generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy
the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we
may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90%
distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such
greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. This
may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and
actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of
that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income,
on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal
amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash
deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to
enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In the event that timing
differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow
funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that
we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute
other property or securities or engage in another transaction intended to
enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements. This may require us to
raise additional capital to meet our obligations.

The lease of qualified health
care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to special requirements


We
lease certain qualified health care properties to taxable REIT subsidiaries (or
limited liability companies of which the taxable REIT subsidiaries are
members), which lessees contract with managers (or related parties) to manage
the health care operations at these properties. The rents from this taxable
REIT subsidiary lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real
property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified
health care property with a taxable REIT subsidiary and (2) the manager
qualifies as an eligible independent contractor (as defined in the Code). If
any of these conditions are not satisfied, then the rents will not be
qualifying rents. See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax
Considerations — Qualification as a REIT — Income Tests”

above.

If certain sale-leaseback
transactions are not characterized by the Internal Revenue Service as “true
leases,” we may be subject to adverse tax consequences

We have purchased certain
properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may
enter into similar transactions in the future. We intend for any such
sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease will
be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the
owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, depending
on the terms of any specific transaction, the Internal Revenue Service might
take the position that the transaction is not a “true lease” but is more
properly treated in some other manner. In the event any sale-leaseback
transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the Internal
Revenue Service, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for
depreciation and

cost recovery
generally available to an owner of property. Furthermore, if a sale-leaseback
transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT asset
tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our REIT status effective
with the year of re-characterization. See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation —
Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification as a REIT — Asset Tests” and
“Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification
as a REIT — Income Tests” above. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable
income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the REIT
annual distribution requirements for a taxable year. See “Item 1 — Business —
Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification as a REIT — Annual
Distribution Requirements” above.

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

None.


Item 2.

Properties

We
own our corporate headquarters located at 4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615.
We also lease corporate offices in California, Canada and the United Kingdom
and have ground leases relating to certain of our properties. The following
table sets forth certain information regarding the properties that comprise our
consolidated real property and real estate loan investments as of December 31,
2015 (dollars in thousands and annualized revenues adjusted for timing of
investment):

Triple-Net

Seniors
  Housing Operating

Property Location

Number
  of Properties

Total
  Investment

Annualized
  Revenues

Number
  of Properties

Total
  Investment

Annualized
  Revenues

Alabama


$

36,064

$

3,777

-

$

-

$

-

Arizona


26,229

2,129


61,590

21,643

California


521,032

53,635


1,401,544

406,568

Colorado


220,438

19,019


145,554

39,599

Connecticut


181,567

21,292


400,887

127,418

District Of Columbia

-

-

-


64,807

13,893

Delaware


161,880

19,660


21,586

6,210

Florida


593,363

55,001


576,254

77,420

Georgia


102,828

9,414


124,942

36,295

Iowa


46,916

4,324


33,276

8,960

Idaho


33,326

3,551

-

-

-

Illinois


276,616

25,876


447,407

104,156

Indiana


535,615

53,270

-

-

-

Kansas


228,905

16,427


71,771

17,657

Kentucky


98,976

14,957


39,434

12,595

Louisiana


21,451

3,349


52,156

11,718

Massachusetts


372,189

53,489


941,674

211,109

Maryland


401,734

41,357


84,221

32,512

Maine

-

-

-


50,666

17,820

Michigan


102,612

9,968


113,041

25,867

Minnesota


210,533

14,026


115,688

23,698

Missouri


28,320

1,171


137,698

20,141

Mississippi


30,147

2,444

-

-

-

Montana


6,266


-

-

-

North Carolina


391,386

38,795


41,460

7,134

Nebraska


34,033

15,342

-

-

-

New Hampshire


172,718

23,410


119,954

29,723

New Jersey


1,420,271

144,374


244,350

65,915

New Mexico

-

-

-


19,038

1,593

Nevada


86,164

12,217


37,350

9,946

New York


201,410

18,051


349,716

77,276

Ohio


229,031

38,171


198,222

29,215

Oklahoma


150,460

12,968


38,922

4,179

Oregon


75,671

6,337

-

-

-

Pennsylvania


1,331,667

158,356


83,081

37,106

Rhode Island


43,802

6,031


69,010

21,156

South Carolina


34,602

5,550

-

-

-

Tennessee


165,388

24,367


50,805

14,790

Texas


594,463

61,905


510,222

98,671

Utah


31,724

2,461


17,545

8,817

Virginia


202,859

20,033


38,493

15,715

Vermont


25,393

3,511


28,080

6,864

Washington


455,323

44,724


331,280

62,173

Wisconsin


134,120

14,474

-

-

-

West Virginia


376,283

50,902

-

-

-

Total domestic


10,393,775

1,131,063


7,061,726

1,705,550

Canada


277,977

15,763


2,058,121

406,614

United Kingdom


1,123,413

118,428


1,457,237

303,158

Total international


1,401,390

134,191


3,515,358

709,772

Grand total


$

11,795,165

$

1,265,253


$

10,577,084

$

2,415,322


Outpatient
  Medical

Property Location

Number
  of Properties

Total
  Investment

Annualized
  Revenues

Alaska


$

22,667

$

2,809

Alabama


31,637

5,308

Arkansas


24,382

1,027

Arizona


68,885

8,213

California


880,782

67,173

Colorado


12,642

1,804

Connecticut


9,886

-

Florida


465,472

61,459

Georgia


162,880

20,585

Iowa


6,974

2,193

Illinois


53,688

7,971

Indiana


152,126

17,326

Kansas


78,474

12,059

Kentucky


8,153


Maryland


80,535

5,396

Maine


21,649

2,805

Michigan


15,983

2,280

Minnesota


179,786

23,689

Missouri


149,053

17,610

North Carolina


58,086

6,506

Nebraska


36,815

5,794

New Hampshire


14,673

1,511

New Jersey


215,048

37,389

New Mexico


34,665

3,498

Nevada


46,748

3,802

New York


84,330

7,768

Ohio


76,546

13,386

Oklahoma


25,843

3,279

Oregon


9,763

1,267

South Carolina


26,910

2,282

Tennessee


78,906

9,968

Texas


891,594

87,667

Virginia


51,645

7,800

Washington


188,369

20,317

Wisconsin


250,839

28,243

Total


$

4,516,434

$

500,954

The
following table sets forth occupancy, coverages and average annualized revenues
for certain property types (excluding investments in unconsolidated entities):

Occupancy

(1)

Coverages

(1,2)

Average
  Annualized Revenues

(3)







Triple-net

(4)

87.2%

87.7%

1.49x

1.54x

$

16,047

$

14,562

per bed/unit

Seniors housing operating

(5)

91.0%

90.3%

n/a

n/a

60,260

67,376

per unit

Outpatient medical

(6)

95.1%

94.4%

n/a

n/a



per sq. ft.

(1) We use unaudited, periodic financial information provided
  solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate occupancy and coverages for
  properties other than medical office buildings and have not independently
  verified the information.

(2) Represents the ratio of our triple-net customers' earnings
  before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees
  to contractual rent or interest due us. Data reflects the 12 months ended
  September 30 for the periods presented.

(3) Represents annualized revenues divided by total beds, units
  or square feet as presented in the tables above.

(4) Occupancy represents average quarterly operating occupancy
  based on the quarters ended September 30 and excludes properties that are
  unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.

(5) Occupancy for seniors housing operating represents average
  occupancy for the three months ended December 31.

(6) Outpatient medical facilities occupancy represents the
  percentage of total rentable square feet leased and occupied (including
  month-to-month and holdover leases and excluding terminations) as of December
  31.


The following table sets forth
information regarding lease expirations for certain portions of our portfolio as
of December 31, 2015 (dollars in thousands):

Expiration
  Year











Thereafter

Triple-net:

Properties












Base rent

(1)

$


$

12,846

$

41,162

$

1,368

$

14,571

$

35,797

$

32,959

$


$

12,130

$

66,118

$

948,129

% of base rent

0.0%

1.1%

3.5%

0.1%

1.2%

3.1%

2.8%

0.1%

1.0%

5.7%

81.3%

Units


1,165

3,686


1,076

3,625

4,731



4,189

56,319

% of units

0.0%

1.5%

4.9%

0.2%

1.4%

4.8%

6.2%

0.1%

1.1%

5.5%

74.3%

Outpatient medical:

Square feet

792,914

1,092,946

933,888

1,085,684

1,251,256

1,182,630

2,178,650

1,103,893

1,411,610

585,459

3,691,978

Base rent

(1)

$

21,884

$

27,369

$

24,225

$

27,762

$

32,365

$

29,630

$

45,348

$

26,609

$

37,890

$

17,156

$

69,591

% of base rent

6.1%

7.6%

6.7%

7.7%

9.0%

8.2%

12.6%

7.4%

10.5%

4.8%

19.4%

Leases












% of leases

12.9%

12.9%

11.7%

11.8%

11.1%

8.5%

8.5%

6.9%

4.6%

3.4%

7.7%

(1) The most recent monthly base rent including straight line
  for leases with fixed escalators or annual cash rents with contingent
  escalators.  Base rent does not include tenant recoveries or amortization of
  above and below market lease intangibles.

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

From time to time,
there are various legal proceedings pending to which we are a party or to which
some of our properties are subject arising in the normal course of business. We
do not believe that the ultimate resolution of these proceedings will have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

Item 4.

Mine Safety
Disclosures

None.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for
Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder

Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

There
were 4,965 stockholders of record as of January 31, 2016. The following table
sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low prices of our common
stock on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:HCN), and common dividends paid per
share:

Sales
  Price

Dividends
  Paid

High

Low

Per
  Share


First Quarter

$

84.88

$

73.20

$

0.825

Second Quarter

79.60

65.48

0.825

Third Quarter

70.22

61.00

0.825

Fourth Quarter

71.25

58.21

0.825


First Quarter

$

59.93

$

52.90

$

0.795

Second Quarter

65.25

58.91

0.795

Third Quarter

68.36

61.42

0.795

Fourth Quarter

78.17

62.05

0.795

Our Board of Directors has approved a
new quarterly cash dividend rate of $0.86 per share of common stock per
quarter, commencing with the February 2016 dividend. The declaration and
payment of quarterly dividends remains subject to the review and approval of
the Board of Directors.

Stockholder Return Performance Presentation

Set forth below is a line graph
comparing the yearly percentage change and the cumulative total stockholder
return on our shares of common stock against the cumulative total return of the
S & P Composite-500 Stock Index and the FTSE NAREIT Equity Index. As
of December 31, 2015, 160 companies comprised the FTSE NAREIT Equity Index. The
Index consists of REITs identified by NAREIT as equity (those REITs which have
at least 75% of their investments in real property). The data are based on the
closing prices as of December 31 for each of the five years. 2010 equals $100
and dividends are assumed to be reinvested.


12/31/10

12/31/11

12/31/12

12/31/13

12/31/14

12/31/15

S
  & P 500

100.00

102.11

118.45

156.82

178.28

180.75

Welltower Inc.

100.00

121.27

143.36

131.29

194.98

183.82

FTSE
  NAREIT Equity

100.00

108.29

127.85

131.01

170.49

175.94

Except to the extent that we specifically incorporate
this information by reference, the foregoing Stockholder Return Performance
Presentation shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general
statement incorporating by reference this Annual Report on Form 10-K into
any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. This information shall not
otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.

Issuer
  Purchases of Equity Securities

Period

Total
  Number of Shares Purchased

(1)

Average
  Price Paid Per Share

Total
  Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs

(2)

Maximum
  Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs

October 1, 2015 through October 31, 2015

-

$

-

November 1, 2015 through November 30, 2015


59.01

December 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015

-

-

Totals


$

59.01

(1) During the three months ended December 31, 2015, the Company
  acquired shares of common stock held by employees who tendered owned shares
  to satisfy tax withholding obligations.

(2) No shares were purchased as part of publicly announced plans
  or programs.


Item 6.

Selected
Financial Data

The
following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 2015
are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements (in thousands,
except per share data):

Year
  Ended December 31,






Operating Data

Revenues

$

1,313,182

$

1,805,044

$

2,880,608

$

3,343,546

$

3,859,826

Expenses

1,200,979

1,619,132

2,778,363

2,959,333

3,223,709

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and income
  (loss) from unconsolidated entities

112,203

185,912

102,245

384,213

636,117

Income tax (expense) benefit

(1,388)

(7,612)

(7,491)

1,267

(6,451)

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

5,772

2,482

(8,187)

(27,426)

(21,504)

Income from continuing operations

116,587

180,782

86,567

358,054

608,162

Income from discontinued operations, net

96,129

114,058

51,713

7,135

-

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

-

-

-

147,111

280,387

Net income

212,716

294,840

138,280

512,300

888,549

Preferred stock dividends

60,502

69,129

66,336

65,408

65,406

Preferred stock redemption charge

-

6,242

-

-

-

Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests

(4,894)

(2,415)

(6,770)


4,799

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

157,108

$

221,884

$

78,714

$

446,745

$

818,344

Other Data

Average number of common shares outstanding:

Basic

173,741

224,343

276,929

306,272

348,240

Diluted

174,401

225,953

278,761

307,747

349,424

Per Share Data

Basic:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common
  stockholders

$

0.35

$

0.48

$

0.10

$

1.44

$

2.35

Discontinued operations, net

0.55

0.51

0.19

0.02

-

Net income attributable to common stockholders *

$

0.90

$

0.99

$

0.28

$

1.46

$

2.35

Diluted:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common
  stockholders

$

0.35

$

0.48

$

0.10

$

1.43

$

2.34

Discontinued operations, net

0.55

0.50

0.19

0.02

-

Net income attributable to common stockholders *

$

0.90

$

0.98

$

0.28

$

1.45

$

2.34

Cash distributions per common share

$

2.835

$

2.96

$

3.06

$

3.18

$

3.30

December
  31,

Balance Sheet Data






Net real estate investments

$

13,942,350

$

17,423,009

$

21,680,221

$

22,851,196

$

26,888,685

Total assets

(1)

14,878,245

19,491,552

23,026,666

24,962,923

29,023,845

Total long-term obligations

(1)

7,194,391

8,474,342

10,594,723

10,776,640

12,967,686

Total liabilities

(1)

7,565,948

8,936,441

11,235,296

11,403,465

13,664,877

Total preferred stock

1,010,417

1,022,917

1,017,361

1,006,250

1,006,250

Total equity

7,278,647

10,520,519

11,756,331

13,473,049

15,175,885

* Amounts may not sum due to rounding

(1) In 2015, we adopted new guidance on the presentation of debt
  issuance costs.  This guidance requires that debt issuance costs related to a
  recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct
  deduction from the carrying amount of the debt liability.  Adopting this
  guidance resulted in a reduction to total assets, total long-term obligations
  and total liabilities, which are presented for all periods above in accordance
  with this new guidance. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements
  for additional information.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

EXECUTIVE
  SUMMARY

Company Overview

Business Strategy

Capital Market Outlook

Key Transactions in 2015

Key Performance
  Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties

Corporate Governance







LIQUIDITY
  AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Sources and Uses of Cash

Off-Balance Sheet
  Arrangements

Contractual Obligations

Capital Structure





RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS

Summary

Triple-net

Seniors Housing Operating

Outpatient Medical

Non-Segment/Corporate






OTHER

Non-GAAP Financial
  Measures


Critical Accounting
  Policies



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

The
following discussion and analysis is based primarily on the consolidated
financial statements of Welltower Inc. for the periods presented and should be
read together with the notes thereto contained in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Other important factors are identified in “Item 1 — Business”
and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” above.

Executive Summary

Company Overview

Welltower
Inc. (NYSE: HCN), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is
driving the transformation of health care infrastructure.  The Company invests
with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems
to fund the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care
delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care
experience.  Welltower

TM

, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”),
owns properties in major, high-growth markets in the United States, Canada and
the United Kingdom, consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities
and outpatient medical properties.  Our capital programs, when combined with
comprehensive planning, development and property management services, make us a
single-source solution for acquiring, planning, developing, managing,
repositioning and monetizing real estate assets.

The following table
summarizes our consolidated portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2015
(dollars in thousands):

Net
  Operating

Percentage
  of

Number
  of

Type
  of Property

Income
  (NOI)

(1)

NOI

Properties

Triple-net

$

1,200,301

53.6%


Seniors housing operating

701,262

31.4%


Outpatient medical

334,915

15.0%


Totals

$

2,236,478

100.0%

1,426

(1) Excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities
  and non-segment/corporate NOI.  Entities in which we have a joint venture
  with a minority partner are shown at 100% of the joint venture amount.

Business
Strategy

Our
primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder
value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create
opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of
annual increases in net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these
objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health
care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship
and geographic location.

Substantially
all of our revenues are derived from operating lease rentals, resident fees and
services, and interest earned on outstanding loans receivable. These items
represent our primary sources of liquidity to fund distributions and depend
upon the continued ability of our obligors to make contractual rent and
interest payments to us and the profitability of our operating properties. To
the extent that our customers/partners experience operating difficulties and become
unable to generate sufficient cash to make payments to us, there could be a
material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity
and/or financial condition. To mitigate this risk, we monitor our investments
through a variety of methods determined by the type of property. Our proactive
and comprehensive asset management process for seniors housing properties
generally includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating
data for each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property
inspections, and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real
estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property
management division actively manages and monitors the outpatient medical
portfolio with a comprehensive process including review of, among other things,
tenant relations, lease expirations, the mix of health service providers,
hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital improvement
needs, and market conditions. In monitoring our portfolio, our personnel use a
proprietary database to collect and analyze property-specific data.
Additionally, we conduct extensive research to ascertain industry trends.  We
evaluate the operating environment in each property’s market to determine the likely
trend in operating performance of the facility.  When we identify unacceptable
trends, we seek to mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk. Through these
efforts, we are generally able to intervene at an early stage to address any negative
trends, and in so doing, support both the collectability of revenue and the
value of our investment.

In
addition to our asset management and research efforts, we also structure our
investments to help mitigate payment risk. Operating leases and loans are
normally credit enhanced by guaranties and/or letters of credit. In addition,
operating leases are typically structured as master leases and loans are
generally cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate loans,
operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates.

For
the year ended December 31, 2015, rental income and resident fees represented 41%
and 56%, respectively, of total revenues.  Substantially all of our operating
leases are designed with escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual
rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the
initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income
related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based
on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. Our


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

yield on loans receivable depends upon a number of
factors, including the stated interest rate, the average principal amount
outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments.

Our
primary sources of cash include rent and interest receipts, resident fees and
services, borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility, public issuances
of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment dispositions and
principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include
dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and
interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital
expenditures, construction advances and transaction costs), loan advances,
property operating expenses and general and administrative expenses.  Depending
upon the availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is
sufficient to fund these uses of cash.

We
also continuously evaluate opportunities to finance future investments.  New
investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings under our primary unsecured
credit facility, internally generated cash and the proceeds from investment
dispositions. Our investments generate cash from net operating income and
principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent financing for future
investments, which generally replaces funds drawn under our primary unsecured credit
facility, has historically been provided through a combination of the issuance
of public debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of
secured debt.

Depending
upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in
the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate
returns to our stockholders. It is also possible that investment dispositions
may occur in the future. To the extent that investment dispositions exceed new
investments, our revenues and cash flows from operations could be adversely
affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds from any investment dispositions
in new investments. To the extent that new investment requirements exceed our
available cash on-hand, we expect to borrow under our primary unsecured credit
facility. At December 31, 2015, we had $360,908,000 of cash and cash
equivalents, $61,782,000 of restricted cash and $1,610,075,000 of available
borrowing capacity under our primary unsecured credit facility.

Capital Market
Outlook

We
believe the capital markets remain supportive of our investment strategy. For
the year ended December 31, 2015, we raised $3,272,283,000 in aggregate gross
proceeds through the issuance of common stock and unsecured debt. The capital
raised, in combination with available cash and borrowing capacity under our
primary unsecured credit facility, supported pro rata gross new investments of
$4,819,684,000 for the year. We expect attractive investment opportunities to
remain available in the future as we continue to leverage the benefits of our
relationship investment strategy.

Key Transactions in 2015

Capital

. 
In February 2015, we completed the public issuance of 19,550,000 shares of
common stock at a price of $75.50 per share for approximate gross proceeds of
$1,476,025,000.  This was the largest overnight common stock offering and the
highest offering price in our history.  In May 2015, we issued $750,000,000 of
4.0% senior unsecured notes due 2025, generating approximately $743,407,000 of
net proceeds.  This was the largest single tranche U.S. debt offering in our
history.  In October 2015, we re-opened this tranche and issued an additional
$500,000,000 of these notes, generating net proceeds of approximately
$484,660,000. Also during October 2015, we raised approximately $47,463,000
under our Equity Shelf Program (as defined below).  In November 2015, we issued
$300,000,000 of Canadian-denominated 3.35% senior unsecured notes due 2020,
generating net proceeds of $223,367,000. Also, for the year ended December 31,
2015, we raised $272,531,000 through our dividend reinvestment program.

Investments

. The following summarizes our acquisitions
and joint venture investments made during the year ended December 31, 2015
(dollars in thousands):

Properties

Investment
  Amount

(1)

Capitalization
  Rates

(2)

Book
  Amount

(3)

Triple-net


$

1,501,537

6.8%

$

1,506,179

Seniors housing operating


2,093,482

6.2%

2,814,878

Outpatient medical


170,499

6.0%

540,338

Total acquisitions/JVs


$

3,765,518

6.4%

$

4,861,395

(1) Represents stated purchase price including cash and any
  assumed debt but excludes fair value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP.

(2) Represents annualized contractual or projected income to be
  received in cash divided by investment amounts.

(3) Represents amounts recorded on our books including fair
  value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP.  See Note 3 to our consolidated financial
  statements for additional information.

Dispositions

. The following summarizes property dispositions
made during the year ended December 31, 2015 (dollars in thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Properties

Proceeds

(1)

Capitalization
  Rates

(2)

Book
  Amount

(3)

Triple-net


$

440,576

7.7%

$

362,024

Outpatient medical


608,101

5.2%

181,553

Total property sales


$

1,048,677

6.2%

$

543,577

(1) Represents pro rata proceeds received upon disposition
  including any seller financing.

(2) Represents annualized contractual income that was being
  received in cash at date of disposition divided by disposition proceeds.

(3) Represents carrying value of assets at time of disposition. 
  See Note 5 to our audited consolidated financial statements for additional
  information.

Dividends

. Our Board of
Directors increased the annual cash dividend to $3.44 per common share ($0.86
per share quarterly), as compared to $3.30 per common share for 2015, beginning
in February 2016.  The dividend declared for the quarter ended December 31,
2015 represents the 179

th

consecutive quarterly dividend payment.

Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties

We
utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the various aspects of
our business. These indicators are discussed below and relate to operating
performance, credit strength and concentration risk.  Management uses these key
performance indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our
historical operating results, in making operating decisions and for budget
planning purposes.

Operating
Performance

. We believe that net income attributable to common stockholders
(“NICS”) is the most appropriate earnings measure. Other useful supplemental
measures of our operating performance include funds from operations (“FFO”),
net operating income from continuing operations (“NOI”) and same store cash NOI
(“SSCNOI”); however, these supplemental measures are not defined by U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”). Please refer to the
section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further discussion and
reconciliations of FFO, NOI and SSCNOI. These earnings measures are widely used
by investors and analysts in the valuation, comparison and investment
recommendations of companies. The following table reflects the recent
historical trends of our operating performance measures for the periods
presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

78,714

$

446,745

$

818,344

Funds from operations

924,884

1,174,081

1,409,640

Net operating income from continuing operations

1,673,795

1,940,188

2,237,569

Same store cash net operating income

1,145,629

1,192,245

1,213,752

Credit Strength.

We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios
and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet
capitalization is related to long-term debt. The coverage ratios indicate our
ability to service interest and fixed charges (interest, secured debt principal
amortization and preferred dividends). We expect to maintain capitalization
ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain compliance with our debt
covenants. The coverage ratios are based on adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”) which is discussed in
further detail, and reconciled to net income, below in “Non-GAAP Financial
Measures.” Leverage ratios and coverage ratios are widely used by investors,
analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, investment
recommendations and rating of companies. The following table reflects the
recent historical trends for our credit strength measures for the periods
presented:

Year
  Ended December 31,




Debt to book capitalization ratio

48%

45%

46%

Debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio

43%

40%

41%

Debt to market capitalization ratio

39%

29%

33%

Adjusted interest coverage ratio

3.23x

3.86x

4.57x

Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio

2.56x

3.06x

3.61x

Concentration Risk

. We
evaluate our concentration risk in terms of NOI by property mix, relationship
mix and geographic mix. Concentration risk is a valuable measure in
understanding what portion of our NOI could be at risk if certain sectors were
to


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

experience downturns. Property mix measures the
portion of our NOI that relates to our various property types. Relationship mix
measures the portion of our NOI that relates to our top five relationships. 
Geographic mix measures the portion of our NOI that relates to our top five
states (or international equivalents). The following table reflects our recent
historical trends of concentration risk by NOI for the periods indicated below:

December
  31,




Property mix:

(1)

Triple-net

53%

53%

54%

Seniors housing operating

32%

33%

31%

Outpatient medical

15%

14%

15%

Relationship mix:

(1)

Genesis Healthcare

17%

16%

17%

Sunrise Senior Living

(2)

13%

15%

13%

Brookdale Senior Living

7%

9%

7%

Revera

(2)

3%

4%

5%

Benchmark Senior Living

4%

4%

4%

Remaining customers

56%

52%

54%

Geographic mix:

(1)

California

10%

10%

10%

United Kingdom

6%

7%

9%

New Jersey

9%

8%

8%

Texas

7%

7%

7%

Pennsylvania

6%

5%

6%

Remaining

62%

63%

60%

(1) Excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities
  and non-segment/corporate NOI. Entities in which we have a joint venture with
  a minority partner are shown at 100% of the joint venture amount.

(2) Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise Senior Living.

We evaluate our key performance
indicators in conjunction with current expectations to determine if historical
trends are indicative of future results. Our expected results may not be
achieved and actual results may differ materially from our expectations.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results are
described in more detail in “Item 1 — Business — Cautionary Statement Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” and other sections of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management regularly monitors economic and other
factors to develop strategic and tactical plans designed to improve performance
and maximize our competitive position. Our ability to achieve our financial
objectives is dependent upon our ability to effectively execute these plans and
to appropriately respond to emerging economic and company-specific trends.
Please refer to “Item 1 — Business,” “Item 1A — Risk Factors” and “Item 7 — Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of these risk factors.

Corporate
Governance

Maintaining
investor confidence and trust is important in today’s business environment. Our
Board of Directors and management are strongly committed to policies and
procedures that reflect the highest level of ethical business practices. Our
corporate governance guidelines provide the framework for our business
operations and emphasize our commitment to increase stockholder value while
meeting all applicable legal requirements. These guidelines meet the listing
standards adopted by the New York Stock Exchange and are available on the
Internet at www.welltower.com/#investors/governance.  The information on our
website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Sources and Uses
of Cash

Our
primary sources of cash include rent and interest receipts, resident fees and
services, borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility, public issuances
of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment dispositions and
principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include
dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and
interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital
expenditures, construction advances and transaction costs), loan advances,


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

property operating expenses, and general and
administrative expenses. These sources and uses of cash are reflected in our
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and are discussed in further detail
below.  The following is a summary of our sources and uses of cash flows
(dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December,

December,

December,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Beginning cash and cash equivalents

$

1,033,764

$

158,780

$

(874,984)

-85%

$

473,726

$

314,946

198%

$

(560,038)

-54%

Cash provided from (used in):

Operating activities

988,497

1,138,670

150,173

15%

1,373,468

234,798

21%

384,971

39%

Investing activities

(3,531,593)

(2,126,206)

1,405,387

-40%

(3,484,160)

(1,357,954)

64%

47,433

-1%

Financing activities

1,667,670

1,303,172

(364,498)

-22%

2,006,449

703,277

54%

338,779

20%

Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash
  equivalents


(690)

(1,132)

n/a

(8,575)

(7,885)

1,143%

(9,017)

n/a

Ending cash and cash equivalents

$

158,780

$

473,726

$

314,946

198%

$

360,908

$

(112,818)

-24%

$

202,128

127%

Operating Activities

. The
change in net cash provided from operating activities is primarily attributable
to increases in NOI which is primarily due to acquisitions.  Please see
“Results of Operations” for further discussion.  For the years ended December
31, 2013, 2014 and 2015, cash flows from operations exceeded cash distributions
to stockholders.

Investing Activities

.  The changes
in net cash used in investing activities are primarily attributable to acquisitions,
real estate loans receivable and investments in unconsolidated entities which
are summarized above in “Key Transactions in 2015.”  Please refer to Notes 3
and 6 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information.  The
following is a summary of non-acquisition capital improvements (dollars in
thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

New development

$

247,560

$

197,881

$

(49,679)

-20%

$

244,561

$

46,680

24%

$

(2,999)

-1%

Recurring capital expenditures, tenant improvements and lease
  commissions

60,984

59,134

(1,850)

-3%

64,458

5,324

9%

3,474

6%

Renovations, redevelopments and other capital improvements

74,848

73,646

(1,202)

-2%

123,294

49,648

67%

48,446

65%

Total

$

383,392

$

330,661

$

(52,731)

-14%

$

432,313

$

101,652

31%

$

48,921

13%

The change in new development is primarily due to the number
and size of construction projects on-going during the relevant periods. 
Renovations, redevelopments and other capital improvements include expenditures
to maximize property value, increase net operating income, maintain a
market-competitive position and/or achieve property stabilization.

Financing Activities

. The changes in net cash provided from financing activities are primarily
attributable to changes related to our long-term debt arrangements, the
issuance/redemptions of common and preferred stock, and dividend payments which
are summarized above in “Key Transactions in 2015.”  Please refer to Notes 9,
10 and 13 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

At December 31, 2015,
we had investments in unconsolidated entities with our ownership ranging from
10% to 50%. Please see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.  We use financial derivative instruments to hedge
interest rate exposure. Please see Note 11 to our consolidated financial
statements for additional information.  At December 31, 2015, we had nine outstanding
letter of credit obligations. Please see Note 12 to our consolidated financial
statements for additional information.

Contractual
Obligations

The
following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2015 (in thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Payments
  Due by Period

Contractual Obligations

Total


2017-2018

2019-2020

Thereafter

Unsecured revolving credit facility

(1)

$

835,000

$

-

$

-

$

835,000

$

-

Senior unsecured notes and term credit facilities:

(2)

U.S. Dollar senior unsecured notes

6,200,000

400,000

900,000

1,050,000

3,850,000

Pounds Sterling senior unsecured notes

(3)

1,548,330

-

-

-

1,548,330

Canadian Dollar senior unsecured notes

(3)

216,779

-

-

216,779

-

U.S. Dollar term credit facility

500,000

-

-

500,000

-

Canadian Dollar term credit facility

(3)

180,649

-

-

180,649

-

Secured debt:

(2,3)

Consolidated

3,478,207

547,325

1,127,424

554,421

1,249,037

Unconsolidated

474,772

25,984

34,583

21,757

392,448

Contractual interest obligations:

(4)

Unsecured revolving credit facility

33,642

5,624

22,495

5,523

-

Senior unsecured notes and term loans

(3)

3,592,177

353,830

675,744

572,354

1,990,249

Consolidated secured debt

(3)

720,472

147,884

213,257

130,951

228,380

Unconsolidated secured debt

(3)

136,870

16,897

31,273

29,171

59,529

Capital lease obligations

(5)

98,569

4,732

9,411

8,506

75,920

Operating lease obligations

(5)

990,027

15,543

31,315

30,593

912,576

Purchase obligations

(5)

549,676

211,635

332,024

6,017

-

Other long-term liabilities

(6)

5,654

1,475

2,950

1,229

-

Total contractual obligations

$

19,560,824

$

1,730,929

$

3,380,476

$

4,142,950

$

10,306,468

(1) Relates to our unsecured revolving credit facility with an
  aggregate commitment of $2,500,000,000. See Note 9 to our consolidated
  financial statements.

(2) Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not reflect
  unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected
  on the balance sheet.

(3) Based on foreign currency exchange rates in effect as of
  balance sheet date.

(4) Based on variable interest rates in effect as of balance
  sheet date.

(5) See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements.

(6) Primarily relates to payments to be made under our
  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, which is discussed in Note 19 to the
  consolidated financial statements.

Capital Structure

Please
refer to “Credit Strength” above for a discussion of our leverage and coverage
ratio trends.  Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and
events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain certain financial
ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur
indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December
31, 2015, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt
agreements. Please refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures”
for further discussion. None of our debt agreements contain provisions for
acceleration which could be triggered by our debt ratings. However, under our
primary unsecured credit facility, the ratings on our senior unsecured notes
are used to determine the fees and interest charged. A summary of certain
covenants and our results as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015 is as
follows:

Per
  Agreement

Covenant

Primary
  Unsecured Credit Facility

Senior
  Unsecured Notes

Actual
  At December 31, 2015

Total Indebtedness to Book Capitalization Ratio maximum

60%

n/a

46%

Secured Indebtedness to Total Assets Ratio maximum

30%

40%

12%

Total Indebtedness to Total Assets maximum

n/a

60%

45%

Unsecured Debt to Unencumbered Assets maximum

60%

n/a

39%

Adjusted Interest Coverage Ratio minimum

n/a

1.50x

4.57x

Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage minimum

1.50x

n/a

3.61x

We plan to manage the Company
to maintain compliance with our debt covenants and with a capital structure
consistent with our current profile. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or
outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse
impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a
material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity
and/or financial condition.

On
May 1, 2015, we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (1) an
open-ended automatic or “universal” shelf


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

registration
statement covering an indeterminate amount of future offerings of debt
securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants and
units and (2) a registration statement in connection with our enhanced dividend
reinvestment plan under which we may issue up to 15,000,000 shares of common
stock. As of January 31, 2016, 11,743,723  shares of common stock remained
available for issuance under this registration statement. We have entered into
separate Equity Distribution Agreements with each of UBS Securities LLC,
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc. relating
to the offer and sale from time to time of up to $630,015,000 aggregate amount
of our common stock (“Equity Shelf Program”). As of January 31, 2016, we had
$392,617,000 of remaining capacity under the Equity Shelf Program. Depending
upon market conditions, we anticipate issuing securities under our registration
statements to invest in additional properties and to repay borrowings under our
primary unsecured credit facility.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Results of Operations

Summary

Our
primary sources of revenue include rent, resident fees and services, and
interest income. Our primary expenses include interest expense, depreciation
and amortization, property operating expenses, transaction costs and general
and administrative expenses.  We evaluate our business and make resource
allocations on our three business segments: triple-net, seniors housing
operating and outpatient medical.  The primary performance measures for our
properties are NOI and SSCNOI, which are discussed below.  Please see Note 17 to
our consolidated financial statements for additional information.  The
following is a summary of our results of operations (dollars in thousands,
except per share amounts):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



Amount

%


Amount

%

Amount

%

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

78,714

$

446,745

$

368,031

468%

$

818,344

$

371,599

83%

$

739,630

940%

Funds from operations

924,884

1,174,081

249,197

27%

1,409,640

235,559

20%

484,756

52%

Adjusted EBITDA

1,503,715

1,877,992

374,277

25%

2,278,930

400,938

21%

775,215

52%

Net operating income from continuing operations

1,673,795

1,940,188

266,393

16%

2,237,569

297,381

15%

563,774

34%

Same store cash NOI

1,145,629

1,192,245

46,616

4%

1,213,752

21,507

2%

68,123

6%

Per share data (fully diluted):

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

0.28

$

1.45

$

1.17

418%

$

2.34

$

0.89

61%

$

2.06

736%

Funds from operations

3.32

3.82

0.50

15%

4.03

0.21

5%

0.71

21%

Adjusted interest coverage ratio

3.23x

3.86x

0.63x

20%

4.57x

0.71x

18%

1.34x

41%

Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio

2.56x

3.06x

0.50x

20%

3.61x

0.55x

18%

1.05x

41%

The following table represents the changes in outstanding
common stock for the period from January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2015 (in
thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2015

Totals

Beginning balance

260,374

289,564

328,790

260,374

Public offerings

23,000

33,925

19,550

76,475

Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

3,430

4,123

4,024

11,577

Senior note conversions



1,330

2,577

Preferred stock conversions



-


Issuances in acquisitions of noncontrolling interests

1,109

-

-

1,109

Option exercises





Equity Shelf Program issuances

-

-



Other, net





Ending balance

289,564

328,790

354,778

354,778

Average number of shares outstanding:

Basic

276,929

306,272

348,240

Diluted

278,761

307,747

349,424

During the past three years, inflation
has not significantly affected our earnings because of the moderate inflation
rate. Additionally, a large portion of our earnings are derived primarily from
long-term investments with predictable rates of return. These investments are
mainly financed with a combination of equity, senior unsecured notes, secured
debt and borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility. During
inflationary periods, which generally are accompanied by rising interest rates,
our ability to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new
investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing costs. Presuming
the current inflation rate remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not
increase significantly, we believe that inflation will not impact the
availability of equity and debt financing for us.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Triple-net

The following is a summary of our NOI for the triple-net
segment (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

SSCNOI

(1)

$

671,609

$

690,941

$

19,332

3%

$

712,806

$

21,865

3%

$

41,197

6%

Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties

(1)

37,153

55,531

18,378

49%

72,666

17,135

31%

35,513

96%

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(2)

185,859

280,662

94,803

51%

414,829

134,167

48%

228,970

123%

NOI

$

894,621

$

1,027,134

$

132,513

15%

$

1,200,301

$

173,167

17%

$

305,680

34%

(1) Change is due to increases in cash and non-cash NOI
  (described below) related to 496 same store properties.

(2) Change is primarily due to the acquisition of 211
  properties, the conversion of 23 construction projects into
  revenue-generating properties subsequent to January 1, 2013 and the
  transition of 38 properties from our seniors housing operating segment on
  September 1, 2013.

The following is a summary of our results of operations for
the triple-net segment (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Rental income

$

866,138

$

992,638

$

126,500

15%

$

1,119,322

$

126,684

13%

$

253,184

29%

Interest income

28,214

32,255

4,041

14%

74,108

41,853

130%

45,894

163%

Other income

1,504

2,973

1,469

98%

6,871

3,898

131%

5,367

357%

895,856

1,027,866

132,010

15%

1,200,301

172,435

17%

304,445

34%

Property operating expenses

1,235


(503)

-41%

-

(732)

-100%

(1,235)

-100%

Net operating income from continuing operations (NOI)

894,621

1,027,134

132,513

15%

1,200,301

171,703

17%

305,680

34%

Other expenses:

Interest expense

23,322

38,460

15,138

65%

30,288

(8,172)

-21%

6,966

30%

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

4,877

(1,770)

(6,647)

n/a

(58,427)

(56,657)

3201%

(63,304)

-1298%

Depreciation and amortization

249,913

273,296

23,383

9%

294,484

21,188

8%

44,571

18%

Transaction costs

24,426

45,146

20,720

85%

53,254

8,108

18%

28,828

118%

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net




145%

10,095

9,997

10201%

10,055

25138%

Provision for loan losses

2,110

-

(2,110)

-100%

-

-

n/a

(2,110)

-100%

Impairment of assets

-

-

-

n/a

2,220

2,220

n/a

2,220

n/a

Other expenses

-

8,825

8,825

n/a

35,648

26,823

304%

35,648

n/a

304,688

364,055

59,367

19%

367,562

3,507

1%

62,874

21%

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and income
  (loss) from unconsolidated entities

589,933

663,079

73,146

12%

832,739

169,660

26%

242,806

41%

Income tax benefit (expense)

(1,817)

6,141

7,958

n/a

(4,244)

(10,385)

-169%

(2,427)

134%

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

5,035

5,423


8%

8,260

2,837

52%

3,225

64%

Income from continuing operations

593,151

674,643

81,492

14%

836,755

162,112

24%

243,604

41%

Discontinued operations, net

57,742

7,135

(50,607)

-88%

-

(7,135)

-100%

(57,742)

-100%

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

-

146,205

146,205

n/a

86,261

(59,944)

-41%

86,261

n/a

Net income

650,893

827,983

177,090

27%

923,016

95,033

11%

272,123

42%

Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests

1,558

1,874


20%

6,348

4,474

239%

4,790

307%

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

649,335

$

826,109

$

176,774

27%

$

916,668

$

90,559

11%

$

267,333

41%


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

The increase in rental income is primarily attributable to the
acquisitions of new properties and the conversion of newly constructed
triple-net properties from which we receive rent. Certain of our leases contain
annual rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price
Index and/or changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenant’s
properties.  These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is
recorded; however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash
rental payments due for the period.  If gross operating revenues at our
facilities and/or the Consumer Price Index do not increase, a portion of our
revenues may not continue to increase.  Sales of real property would offset
revenue increases and, to the extent that they exceed new acquisitions, could
result in decreased revenues.  Our leases could renew above or below current
rent rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in rental income.  For the
three months ended December 31, 2015, we had no lease renewals but we had 16
leases with rental rate increasers ranging from 0.01% to 0.32% in our triple-net
portfolio.

The
increase in interest income is attributable to investments in new loans and
draws on existing loans in the current year, which includes a first mortgage
loan to Genesis Healthcare to facilitate their merger with Skilled Healthcare
Group.  The increase in other income year-to-date over the prior year includes
the receipt of an early prepayment fee related to a real estate loan
receivable.

During
the year ended December 31, 2015, we completed five triple-net construction
projects representing $104,844,000 or $234,027 per bed/unit plus expansion
projects totaling $38,808,000. The following is a summary of triple-net
construction projects pending as of December 31, 2015 (dollars in thousands):

Location

Units/Beds

Commitment

Balance

Est.
  Completion

Edmond, OK


$

24,500

$

11,667

3Q16

London, England


29,492

16,240

3Q16

Carrollton, TX


18,900

7,681

3Q16

Piscataway, NJ


30,600

19,386

4Q16

Raleigh, NC


93,000

42,707

4Q16

Tulsa, OK


25,800

6,290

4Q16

Livingston, NJ


51,440

19,453

1Q17

Bracknell, England


16,293

7,080

1Q17

Lancaster, PA


15,875

2,725

1Q17

Lititz, PA


15,200

2,763

1Q17

Total

1,163

$

321,100

$

135,992

Total interest expense represents secured debt interest expense and interest
expense on capital lease obligations.  The change in secured debt interest
expense is due to the net effect and timing of assumptions, segment
transitions, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a
summary of our triple-net secured debt principal activity (dollars in
thousands):

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2015

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Beginning balance

$

218,741

5.393%

$

587,136

5.394%

$

670,769

5.337%

Debt transitioned

367,997

5.298%

-

0.000%

-

0.000%

Debt issued

13,800

5.480%

-

0.000%

-

0.000%

Debt assumed

9,578

5.582%

120,352

5.404%

44,142

5.046%

Debt extinguished

(16,482)

3.304%

(22,970)

6.235%

(132,545)

4.695%

Foreign currency

-

0.000%

(2,180)

5.317%

(15,633)

5.315%

Principal payments

(6,498)

5.698%

(11,569)

5.564%

(12,719)

5.450%

Ending balance

$

587,136

5.394%

$

670,769

5.337%

$

554,014

5.488%

Monthly averages

$

339,129

5.394%

$

596,941

5.381%

$

551,803

5.518%

In April 2011, we completed the acquisition of
substantially all of the real estate assets of privately-owned Genesis
Healthcare Corporation.  In conjunction with this transaction, we received the
option to acquire an ownership interest in Genesis Healthcare.  In February
2015, Genesis Healthcare closed on a transaction to merge with Skilled
Healthcare Group to become a publicly traded company which required us to
record the value of the derivative asset due to the net settlement feature.  This
event resulted in $58,427,000 gain. During the fourth quarter of 2015, the cost
basis of this investment exceeded the fair value.  Management


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

performed an assessment to determine whether the decline
in fair value was other than temporary and concluded that it was.  As a result,
we recognized an other than temporary impairment charge of $35,648,000 which is
recorded in other expense.

Depreciation and amortization increased primarily as a
result of new property acquisitions and the conversions of newly constructed
properties. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of additional properties
in the future, our provision for depreciation and amortization will change
accordingly.

Transaction costs represent costs incurred with property
acquisitions including due diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation
services, the termination of pre-existing relationships, lease termination
expenses and other similar costs.  The change in transaction costs from year to
year is primarily a function of investment volume.  The fluctuations in loss
(gain) on extinguishment of debt is primarily attributable to the volume of
extinguishments and terms of the related secured debt.

Changes in gains on sales of properties are related to
the volume of property sales and the sales prices.  We recognized impairment
losses on certain held-for-sale properties as the fair value less estimated
costs to sell exceeded our carrying values. The following illustrates the
reclassification impact as a result of classifying the properties sold prior to
or held for sale at December 31, 2013, as discontinued operations for the
periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Rental income

$

8,987

$


$

-

Expenses:

Interest expense

2,566


-

Provision for depreciation

5,304

-

-

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

$

1,117

$


$

-

During
the year ended December 31, 2013, we wrote off one loan related to an active
adult community.  During the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2015, we did not
record a provision for loan loss or have any loan write-offs.  The provision
for loan losses is related to our critical accounting estimate for the
allowance for loan losses and is discussed in “Critical Accounting Policies”
and Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements.

A
portion of our triple-net properties were formed through partnerships.  Income
or loss from unconsolidated entities represents our share of net income or
losses from partnerships where we are the noncontrolling partner.  Net income
attributable to noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net
income relating to those partnerships where we are the controlling partner.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Seniors
Housing Operating

The following is a summary of our NOI for the seniors housing
operating segment (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

SSCNOI

(1)

$

252,802

$

274,377

$

21,575

9%

$

267,431

$

(6,946)

-3%

$

14,629

6%

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(2)

275,361

356,886

81,525

30%

433,831

76,945

22%

158,470

58%

NOI

$

528,163

$

631,263

$

103,100

20%

$

701,262

$

69,999

11%

$

173,099

33%

(1) Due to increases in cash revenues (described below) related
  to 116 same store properties.

(2) Primarily due to the acquisition of 271 properties
  subsequent to January 1, 2013 and the transition of 38 properties to our
  triple-net segment on September 1, 2013.

The following is a summary of our results of
operations for the seniors housing operating segment (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Resident fees and services

$

1,616,290

$

1,892,237

$

275,947

17%

$

2,158,031

$

265,794

14%

$

541,741

34%

Interest income


2,119

1,362

180%

4,180

2,061

97%

3,423

452%

Other income


3,215

2,860

806%

6,060

2,845

88%

5,705

1607%

1,617,402

1,897,571

280,169

17%

2,168,271

270,700

14%

550,869

34%

Property operating expenses

1,089,239

1,266,308

177,069

16%

1,467,009

200,701

16%

377,770

35%

Net operating income from continuing operations (NOI)

528,163

631,263

103,100

20%

701,262

69,999

11%

173,099

33%

Other expenses:

Interest expense

92,148

113,099

20,951

23%

147,832

34,733

31%

55,684

60%

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

(407)



-168%

-

(275)

-100%


-100%

Depreciation and amortization

478,007

418,199

(59,808)

-13%

351,733

(66,466)

-16%

(126,274)

-26%

Transaction costs

107,066

16,880

(90,186)

-84%

54,966

38,086

226%

(52,100)

-49%

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

(3,372)


3,755

-111%

(195)

(578)

-151%

3,177

-94%

Other expenses

-

1,437

1,437

n/a

-

(1,437)

-100%

-

n/a

673,442

550,273

(123,169)

-18%

554,336

4,063

1%

(119,106)

-18%

(Loss) income from continuing operations before income from
  unconsolidated entities

(145,279)

80,990

226,269

-156%

146,926

65,936

81%

292,205

-201%

Income tax expense

(5,337)

(3,047)

2,290

-43%


4,033

-132%

6,323

-118%

(Loss) income from unconsolidated entities

(22,695)

(38,204)

(15,509)

68%

(32,672)

5,532

-14%

(9,977)

44%

Net income (loss)

(173,311)

39,739

213,050

-123%

115,240

75,501

190%

288,551

-166%

Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests

(8,639)

(2,335)

6,304

-73%

(1,438)


-38%

7,201

-83%

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

(164,672)

$

42,074

$

206,746

-126%

$

116,678

$

74,604

177%

$

281,350

-171%

Fluctuations in revenues and property operating expenses are
primarily a result of acquisitions subsequent to January 1, 2013, partially
offset by the transition of 38 properties to triple-net on September 1, 2013.  The
increase in other income for the year ended December 31, 2015 is primarily a
result of insurance proceeds received relating to a property.  The fluctuations
in depreciation and amortization are due to the net impact of acquisitions and
variations in amortization of short-lived intangible assets.  To the extent
that we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, these
amounts will change accordingly.  Losses from unconsolidated


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

entities are primarily attributable to depreciation and
amortization of short-lived intangible assets related to our investments in
unconsolidated joint ventures with Chartwell in 2012, Sunrise in 2013 and
Senior Resource Group in 2014.

During the year ended
December 31, 2015, we completed one seniors housing operating construction
project representing $19,869,000 or $283,843 per unit.  The following is a
summary of our seniors housing operating construction projects, excluding
expansions, pending as of December 31, 2015 (dollars in thousands):

Location

Units/Beds

Commitment

Balance

Est.
  Completion

Camberley, England


$

20,459

$

18,755

4Q16

Bushey, England


58,403

14,070

2Q18

Chertsey, England


45,612

12,446

3Q18

Total


$

124,474

$

45,271

Interest expense represents secured debt interest expense as
well as interest expense related to all foreign senior unsecured debt.  Please
refer to Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional
information. The increases in interest expense are attributed primarily to the
£550,000,000 Sterling-dominated senior unsecured notes issued in November 2013,
the £500,000,000 Sterling-dominated senior unsecured notes issued in November
2014, and the $300,000,000 Canadian-denominated senior unsecured notes issued
in November 2015.

The following is a summary of our seniors housing
operating property secured debt principal activity (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2015

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Beginning balance

$

1,369,526

4.874%

$

1,714,714

4.622%

$

1,654,531

4.422%

Debt issued

75,408

4.891%

109,503

3.374%

228,685

2.776%

Debt assumed

1,228,706

4.063%

18,484

4.359%

842,316

3.420%

Debt extinguished

(548,876)

3.597%

(114,793)

3.626%

(285,599)

4.188%

Debt transitioned

(367,997)

5.298%

-

0.000%

-

0.000%

Foreign currency

(10,361)

4.013%

(39,379)

3.727%

(110,691)

3.625%

Principal payments

(31,692)

4.643%

(33,998)

4.296%

(38,690)

4.126%

Ending balance

$

1,714,714

4.622%

$

1,654,531

4.422%

$

2,290,552

3.958%

Monthly averages

$

1,723,122

4.820%

$

1,657,416

4.515%

$

1,894,609

4.261%

The fluctuations in gains/losses on
debt extinguishments is primarily attributable the volume of extinguishments
and terms of the related secured debt.  Transaction costs represent costs
incurred with property acquisitions (including due diligence costs, fees for
legal and valuation services, and termination of pre-existing relationships
computed based on the fair value of the assets acquired), lease termination
fees and other similar costs.  The change in transaction costs from year to
year is primarily a function of investment volume.  The majority of our seniors
housing operating properties are formed through partnership interests.  Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share
of net income or loss related to those partnerships where we are the
controlling partner.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Outpatient
Medical

The following is a summary of our NOI for the outpatient
medical segment (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

SSCNOI

(1)

$

221,218

$

226,927

$

5,709

3%

$

233,515

$

6,588

3%

$

12,297

6%

Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties

(1)

8,436

7,494

(942)

-11%

6,097

(1,397)

-19%

(2,339)

-28%

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(2)

21,061

46,693

25,632

122%

95,303

48,610

104%

74,242

353%

NOI

$

250,715

$

281,114

$

30,399

12%

$

334,915

$

53,801

19%

$

84,200

34%

(1) Due to increases in cash and non-cash NOI (described below)
  related to 164 same store properties.

(2) Primarily due to the acquisition of 50 properties and
  conversions of construction projects into 14 revenue-generating properties
  subsequent to January 1, 2013.

The following is a summary of our results of operations for
the outpatient medical segment (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Rental income

$

361,451

$

413,129

$

51,678

14%

$

479,626

$

66,497

16%

$

118,175

33%

Interest income

3,692

3,293

(399)

-11%

5,853

2,560

78%

2,161

59%

Other income

1,911

1,010

(901)

-47%

4,684

3,674

364%

2,773

145%

367,054

417,432

50,378

14%

490,163

72,731

17%

123,109

34%

Property operating expenses

116,339

136,318

19,979

17%

155,248

18,930

14%

38,909

33%

Net operating income from continuing operations (NOI)

250,715

281,114

30,399

12%

334,915

53,801

19%

84,200

34%

Other expenses:

Interest expense

36,823

32,904

(3,919)

-11%

28,822

(4,082)

-12%

(8,001)

-22%

Depreciation and amortization

137,880

152,635

14,755

11%

180,023

27,388

18%

42,143

31%

Transaction costs

1,909

7,512

5,603

294%

2,706

(4,806)

-64%


42%

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

-



n/a

-

(405)

-100%

-

n/a

176,612

193,456

16,844

10%

211,551

18,095

9%

34,939

20%

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and income
  (loss)  from unconsolidated entities

74,103

87,658

13,555

18%

123,364

35,706

41%

49,261

66%

Income tax expense

(270)

(1,827)

(1,557)

577%


2,072

n/a


n/a

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

9,473

5,355

(4,118)

-43%

2,908

(2,447)

-46%

(6,565)

-69%

Income from continuing operations

83,306

91,186

7,880

9%

126,517

35,331

39%

43,211

52%

Discontinued operations, net

(6,029)

-

6,029

-100%

-

-

n/a

6,029

-100%

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

-



n/a

194,126

193,220

21327%

194,126

n/a

Net income (loss)

77,277

92,092

14,815

19%

320,643

228,551

248%

243,366

315%

Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests




96%

(110)

(718)

n/a

(420)

n/a

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

76,967

$

91,484

$

14,517

19%

$

320,753

$

229,269

251%

$

243,786

317%

The
increase in rental income is primarily attributable to the acquisitions of new
properties and the conversion of newly constructed outpatient medical
properties from which we receive rent. Certain of our leases contain annual
rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price
Index.  These escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded;
however, rental income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental
payments due for the period.  If the Consumer Price Index does not increase, a
portion of our revenues may not continue to increase.  Sales of real property
would offset revenue increases and, to the extent that they exceed new
acquisitions, could result in decreased revenues.  Our leases could renew above
or below current rent rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in rental
income.

For the three months ended December 31, 2015, our consolidated


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

outpatient medical portfolio signed 75,573 square feet of
new leases and 145,892 square feet of renewals.  The weighted-average term
of these leases was six years, with a rate of $33.28 per square foot and tenant
improvement and lease commission costs of $24.87 per square foot. 
Substantially all of these leases during the referenced quarter contain an
annual fixed or contingent escalation rent structure ranging from the change in
CPI to 4%.

During
the year ended December 31, 2015, we completed one outpatient medical
construction project representing $16,592,000 or $325 per square foot. The
following is a summary of outpatient medical construction projects pending as
of December 31, 2015 (dollars in thousands):

Location

Square
  Feet

Commitment

Balance

Est.
  Completion

Bel Air, MD

99,184

$

26,386

$

18,153

1Q16

Richmond, TX

36,475

11,670

7,277

1Q16

Stamford, CT

92,345

41,735

9,886

3Q16

Missouri, TX

23,863

9,180

2,252

3Q16

Wausau, WI

43,883

14,100

3,183

1Q17

Brooklyn, NY

140,955

103,624

19,808

1Q17

Timmonium, MD

46,000

20,996

8,601

2Q17

Total

482,705

$

227,691

$

69,160

Total interest expense
represents secured debt interest expense offset by interest. The change in
secured debt interest expense is primarily due to the net effect and timing of
assumptions, extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a
summary of our outpatient medical secured debt principal activity (dollars in
thousands):

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2015

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Beginning balance

$

713,720

5.950%

$

700,427

5.999%

$

609,268

5.838%

Debt assumed

52,574

6.126%

66,113

3.670%

120,959

2.113%

Debt extinguished

(49,017)

5.357%

(141,796)

5.567%

(88,182)

5.257%

Principal payments

(16,850)

6.193%

(15,476)

5.797%

(14,356)

5.975%

Ending balance

$

700,427

5.999%

$

609,268

5.838%

$

627,689

5.177%

Monthly averages

$

708,107

5.956%

$

626,797

5.928%

$

613,155

5.434%

The
increase in other income is primarily attributable to the acquisition of a
controlling interest in a portfolio of properties that were historically
reported as unconsolidated property investments. The increases in property
operating expenses and depreciation and amortization are primarily attributable
to acquisitions and construction conversions of new outpatient medical
facilities for which we incur certain property operating expenses. Transaction
costs represent costs incurred with property acquisitions including due
diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation services, termination of
pre-existing relationships, a lease termination expense and other similar
costs.  The fluctuations in transaction costs are primarily due to acquisition
volumes in the relevant years. Income from unconsolidated entities represents
our share of net income or losses related to the periods for which we held a
joint venture investment with Forest City Enterprises and certain
unconsolidated property investments.

Changes
in gains/losses on sales of properties are related to

volume of property sales and the sales prices

. The following illustrates the reclassification impact as a
result of classifying the properties sold prior to or held for sale at December
31, 2013 as discontinued operations for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Rental income

$

9,390

$

-

$

-

Expenses:

Interest expense

1,681

-

-

Property operating expenses

3,396

-

-

Provision for depreciation

2,855

-

-

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

$

1,458

$

-

$

-

A portion of our outpatient
medical properties were formed through partnerships. Net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income or loss
relating to those partnerships where we are the controlling partner.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Non-Segment/Corporate

The following is a
summary of our results of operations for the non-segment/corporate activities
(dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Other income

$


$


$


129%

$

1,091

$


61%

$


269%

Expenses:

Interest expense

306,067

296,576

(9,491)

-3%

285,227

(11,349)

-4%

(20,840)

-7%

General and administrative

108,318

142,943

34,625

32%

147,416

4,473

3%

39,098

36%

Loss (gain) on extinguishments of debt, net

2,423

8,672

6,249

258%

24,777

16,105

186%

22,354

923%

Other expenses

-

-

-

n/a

10,583

10,583

n/a

10,583

n/a

416,808

448,191

31,383

8%

468,003

19,812

4%

51,195

12%

Loss from continuing operations before income taxes

(416,512)

(447,514)

(31,002)

7%

(466,912)

(19,398)

4%

(50,400)

12%

Income tax expense

(67)

-


-100%

(3,438)

(3,438)

n/a

(3,371)

5031%

Net loss

(416,579)

(447,514)

(30,935)

7%

(470,350)

(22,836)

5%

(53,771)

13%

Preferred stock dividends

66,336

65,408

(928)

-1%

65,406

(2)

0%

(930)

-1%

Net loss attributable to common stockholders

$

(482,915)

$

(512,922)

$

(30,007)

6%

$

(535,756)

$

(22,834)

4%

$

(52,841)

11%

The following is a summary of our
non-segment/corporate interest expense (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Senior unsecured notes

$

279,617

$

280,037

$


0%

$

267,609

$

(12,428)

-4%

$

(12,008)

-4%

Secured debt



(35)

-7%


(103)

-22%

(138)

-28%

Primary unsecured credit facility

15,498

8,914

(6,584)

-42%

10,812

1,898

21%

(4,686)

-30%

Capitalized interest

(6,700)

(7,150)

(450)

7%

(6,379)


-11%


-5%

Interest SWAP savings

(14)

(14)

-

0%

(28)

(14)

100%

(14)

100%

Loan expense

17,171

14,329

(2,842)

-17%

12,856

(1,473)

-10%

(4,315)

-25%

Totals

$

306,067

$

296,576

$

(9,491)

-3%

$

285,227

$

(11,349)

-4%

$

(20,840)

-7%

The change in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due to
the net effect of issuances and extinguishments, excluding our foreign
unsecured debt, which is in our seniors housing operating segment.  Please
refer to Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional
information.  We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used for
the construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is
based upon the balances outstanding during the construction period using the
rate of interest that approximates our cost of financing. Our interest expense
is reduced by the amount capitalized.  The change in capitalized interest is
due to both changes in construction fundings and in our weighted-average cost
of financing.  Loan expense represents the amortization of deferred loan costs
incurred in connection with the issuance and amendments of debt. Loan expense changes
are due to amortization of charges for costs incurred in connection with senior
unsecured note issuances.  The change in interest expense on our primary unsecured
credit facility is due primarily to the net effect and timing of draws,
paydowns and variable interest rate changes.  Please refer to Note 9 of our
consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our
primary unsecured credit facility.

General and administrative expenses
for 2014 included $19,688,000 of CEO transition costs.  Excluding these costs,
general and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues
for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were 3.82%, 3.69% and 3.74%,
respectively.  The increases in general and administrative expenses, excluding
the CEO transition costs, are primarily related to costs associated with our
initiatives to attract and retain appropriate personnel to achieve our business
objectives. The loss on extinguishment of debt in the current year is primarily
due to the early extinguishment of the 2016 senior unsecured notes.  Other
expenses in the current year are due to costs associated with the retirement of
an executive officer and the termination of our investment in a strategic
outpatient medical partnership.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Other

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

We
believe that net income attributable to common stockholders, as defined by U.S.
GAAP, is the most appropriate earnings measurement. However, we consider FFO to
be a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance. Historical cost
accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly
assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time
as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real estate
values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry
investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating results for
real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient.
In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
(“NAREIT”) created FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance for
REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as
defined by NAREIT, means net income attributable to common stockholders,
computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales
of real estate and impairment of depreciable assets, plus depreciation and
amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated entities and
noncontrolling interests.

Net operating income from
continuing operations (“NOI”) is used to evaluate the operating performance of
our properties. We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant
reimbursements, less property operating expenses.  Property operating expenses
represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing tenants for
our seniors housing operating and outpatient medical properties.  These
expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and
benefits, property management fees, marketing, housekeeping, food service,
maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance.  General and
administrative expenses represent costs unrelated to property operations or
transaction costs.  These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and
benefits, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate
fixed assets.  Same store cash NOI (“SSCNOI”) is used to evaluate the
cash-based operating performance of our properties under a consistent
population which eliminates changes in the composition of our portfolio.  As
used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating
properties in the portfolio for the full three year reporting period.  Any
properties acquired, developed, transitioned or classified in discontinued
operations during that period are excluded from the same store amounts.  We
believe NOI and SSCNOI provide investors relevant and useful information
because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the
property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSCNOI to make decisions
about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our
properties.

EBITDA stands for
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We believe that
EBITDA, along with net income and cash flow provided from operating activities,
is an important supplemental measure because it provides additional information
to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. We primarily utilize
EBITDA to measure our interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided
by total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA
divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest, secured debt
principal amortization and preferred dividends.

A covenant in our primary
unsecured credit facility contains a financial ratio based on a definition of
EBITDA that is specific to that agreement. Failure to satisfy these covenants
could result in an event of default that could have a material adverse impact
on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material
adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or
financial condition. Due to the materiality of these debt agreements and the
financial covenants, we have disclosed Adjusted EBITDA, which represents EBITDA
as defined above and adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, provision
for loan losses and gain/loss on extinguishment of debt. We use Adjusted EBITDA
to measure our adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents Adjusted
EBITDA divided by fixed charges on a trailing twelve months basis. Fixed
charges include total interest (excluding capitalized interest and non-cash
interest expenses), secured debt principal amortization and preferred
dividends. Our covenant requires an adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio of at
least 1.50 times.

Other
than Adjusted EBITDA, our supplemental reporting measures and similarly
entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt
analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and
investment recommendations of companies. Management uses these financial
measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical
operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these
measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management.
Adjusted EBITDA is used solely to determine our compliance with a financial
covenant in our primary unsecured credit facility and is not being presented
for use by investors for any other purpose. None of our supplemental measures
represent net income or cash flow provided from operating activities as
determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as
alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental
measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly entitled items
reported by other real estate investment trusts or other companies.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

The
table below reflects the reconciliation of FFO to net income attributable to
common stockholders, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the
periods presented. The provisions for depreciation and amortization include
provisions for depreciation and amortization from discontinued operations. Noncontrolling
interest and unconsolidated entity amounts represent adjustments to reflect our
share of depreciation and amortization.  Amounts are in thousands except for
per share data.

Year
  Ended December 31,

FFO Reconciliation:




Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

78,714

$

446,745

$

818,344

Depreciation and amortization

873,960

844,130

826,240

Impairment of assets

-

-

2,220

Loss (gain) on sales of properties

(49,138)

(153,522)

(280,387)

Noncontrolling interests

(36,304)

(37,852)

(39,271)

Unconsolidated entities

57,652

74,580

82,494

Funds from operations

$

924,884

$

1,174,081

$

1,409,640

Average common shares outstanding:

Basic

276,929

306,272

348,240

Diluted

278,761

307,747

349,424

Per share data:

Net income attributable to common stockholders

Basic

$

0.28

$

1.46

$

2.35

Diluted

0.28

1.45

2.34

Funds from operations

Basic

$

3.34

$

3.83

$

4.05

Diluted

3.32

3.82

4.03

The table below reflects the
reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most directly comparable
U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. Interest expense and the
provisions for depreciation and amortization include discontinued operations.
Dollars are in thousands.

Year
  Ended December 31,

Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation:




Net income

$

138,280

$

512,300

$

888,549

Interest expense

462,606

481,196

492,169

Income tax expense (benefit), net

7,491

(1,267)

6,451

Depreciation and amortization

873,960

844,130

826,240

Stock-based compensation expense

20,177

32,075

30,844

Provision for loan losses

2,110

-

-

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

(909)

9,558

34,677

Adjusted EBITDA

$

1,503,715

$

1,877,992

$

2,278,930

Adjusted Interest Coverage Ratio:

Interest expense

$

462,606

$

481,196

$

492,169

Capitalized interest

6,700

7,150

8,670

Non-cash interest expense

(4,044)

(2,427)

(2,586)

Total interest

465,262

485,919

498,253

Adjusted EBITDA

$

1,503,715

$

1,877,992

$

2,278,930

Adjusted interest coverage ratio

3.23x

3.86x

4.57x

Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio:

Interest expense

$

462,606

$

481,196

$

492,169

Capitalized interest

6,700

7,150

8,670

Non-cash interest expense

(4,044)

(2,427)

(2,586)

Secured debt principal payments

56,205

62,280

67,064

Preferred dividends

66,336

65,408

65,406

Total fixed charges

587,803

613,607

630,723

Adjusted EBITDA

$

1,503,715

$

1,877,992

$

2,278,930

Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio

2.56x

3.06x

3.61x


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

The following tables
reflect the reconciliation of NOI and SSCNOI to net income attributable to
common stockholders, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the
periods presented.  Amounts are in thousands.

Year
  Ended December 31,

NOI Reconciliation:




Total revenues:

Triple-net

$

895,856

$

1,027,866

$

1,200,301

Seniors housing operating

1,617,402

1,897,571

2,168,271

Outpatient medical

367,054

417,432

490,163

Non-segment/corporate



1,091

Total revenues

2,880,608

3,343,546

3,859,826

Property operating expenses:

Triple-net

1,235


-

Seniors housing operating

1,089,239

1,266,308

1,467,009

Outpatient medical

116,339

136,318

155,248

Total property operating expenses

1,206,813

1,403,358

1,622,257

Net operating income:

Triple-net

894,621

1,027,134

1,200,301

Seniors housing operating

528,163

631,263

701,262

Outpatient medical

250,715

281,114

334,915

Non-segment/corporate



1,091

Net operating income from continuing operations

1,673,795

1,940,188

2,237,569

Reconciling items:

Interest expense

(458,360)

(481,039)

(492,169)

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

(4,470)

1,495

58,427

Depreciation and amortization

(865,800)

(844,130)

(826,240)

General and administrative

(108,318)

(142,943)

(147,416)

Transaction costs

(133,401)

(69,538)

(110,926)

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net


(9,558)

(34,677)

Impairment of assets

-

-

(2,220)

Other expenses

-

(10,262)

(46,231)

Provision for loan losses

(2,110)

-

-

Income tax benefit (expense)

(7,491)

1,267

(6,451)

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

(8,187)

(27,426)

(21,504)

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

51,713

7,135

-

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

-

147,111

280,387

Preferred dividends

(66,336)

(65,408)

(65,406)

Loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests

6,770

(147)

(4,799)

(1,595,081)

(1,493,443)

(1,419,225)

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

78,714

$

446,745

$

818,344


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Year
  Ended December 31,

Same Store Cash NOI Reconciliation:




Net operating income from continuing operations:

Triple-net

$

894,621

$

1,027,134

$

1,200,301

Seniors housing operating

528,163

631,263

701,262

Outpatient medical

250,715

281,114

334,915

Total

1,673,499

1,939,511

2,236,478

Adjustments:

Triple-net:

Non-cash NOI on same store properties

(37,153)

(55,531)

(72,666)

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(185,859)

(280,662)

(414,829)

Subtotal

(223,012)

(336,193)

(487,495)

Seniors housing operating:

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(275,361)

(356,886)

(433,831)

Subtotal

(275,361)

(356,886)

(433,831)

Outpatient medical:

Non-cash NOI on same store properties

(8,436)

(7,494)

(6,097)

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(21,061)

(46,693)

(95,303)

Subtotal

(29,497)

(54,187)

(101,400)

Total

(527,870)

(747,266)

(1,022,726)

Same store cash net operating income:

Triple-net

671,609

690,941

712,806

Seniors housing operating

252,802

274,377

267,431

Outpatient medical

221,218

226,927

233,515

Total

$

1,145,629

$

1,192,245

$

1,213,752

Same Store Cash NOI Property
  Reconciliation:

Total properties

1,426

Acquisitions

(532)

Developments

(44)

Disposals/Held-for-sale

(17)

Segment transitions

(39)

Other

(1)

(18)

Same store properties


(1) Includes eleven land parcels, three loans and four
  previously unconsolidated properties in which we purchased the majority
  interest during the year.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Critical Accounting Policies

Our consolidated financial
statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make
estimates and assumptions.  Management considers accounting estimates or
assumptions critical if:

·

the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the
levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain
matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change; and

·

the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition
or operating performance is material.

Management has discussed the
development and selection of its critical accounting policies with the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the
disclosure presented below relating to them.  Management believes the current
assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our
consolidated financial statements are appropriate and are not reasonably likely
to change in the future.  However, since these estimates require assumptions to
be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, they bear the
risk of change.  If actual experience differs from the assumptions and other
considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated
financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial
condition.  Please refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial
statements for further information on significant accounting policies that impact
us and for the impact of new accounting standards.  There were no accounting
pronouncements that were issued, but not yet adopted by us, that we believe
will materially impact our consolidated financial statements.

The following table presents
information about our critical accounting policies, as well as the material
assumptions used to develop each estimate:

Nature of Critical

Accounting Estimate

Assumptions/Approach

Used

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated
  financial statements include our accounts, the accounts of our wholly-owned
  subsidiaries and the accounts of joint venture entities in which we own a
  majority voting interest with the ability to control operations and where no
  substantive participating rights or substantive kick out rights have been
  granted to the noncontrolling interests.  In addition, we consolidate those
  entities deemed to be variable interest entities (VIEs) in which we are
  determined to be the primary beneficiary. All material intercompany
  transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

We
  make judgments about which entities are VIEs based on an assessment of
  whether (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a
  controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is
  insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional
  subordinated financial support. We

make
  judgments with respect to our level of influence or control of an entity and
  whether we are (or are not) the primary beneficiary of a VIE. Consideration
  of various factors includes, but is not limited to, our ability to direct the
  activities that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance,
  our form of ownership interest, our representation on the entity's governing
  body, the size and seniority of our investment, our ability and the rights of
  other investors to participate in policy making decisions, replace the
  manager and/or liquidate the entity, if applicable. Our ability to correctly
  assess our influence or control over an entity at inception of our
  involvement or on a continuous basis when determining the primary beneficiary
  of a VIE affects the presentation of these entities in our consolidated
  financial statements. If we perform a primary beneficiary analysis at a date
  other than at inception of the variable interest entity, our assumptions may
  be different and may result in the identification of a different primary
  beneficiary.

Income Taxes

As part of the
  process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant
  management judgment is required to evaluate our compliance with REIT
  requirements.

Our determinations
  are based on interpretation of tax laws, and our conclusions may have an
  impact on the income tax expense recognized. Adjustments to income tax
  expense may be required as a result of: (i) audits conducted by federal
  and state tax authorities, (ii) our ability to qualify as a REIT,
  (iii) the potential for built-in-gain recognized related to prior-tax-free
  acquisitions of C corporations and (iv) changes in tax laws. Adjustments
  required in any given period are included in income.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Nature of Critical

Accounting Estimate

Assumptions/Approach

Used

Business Combinations

Real property
  developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of
  construction period interest. The cost of real property acquired is allocated
  to net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their respective
  fair values. Tangible assets primarily consist of land, buildings and
  improvements. The remaining purchase price is allocated among identifiable
  intangible assets primarily consisting of the above or below market component
  of in-place leases and the value of in-place leases. The total amount of
  other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease
  values and customer relationship values based on management’s evaluation of
  the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease and the Company’s overall
  relationship with that respective tenant.

We make estimates
  as part of our allocation of the purchase price of acquisitions to the
  various components of the acquisition based upon the relative fair value of
  each component. The most significant components of our allocations are
  typically the allocation of fair value to the buildings as-if-vacant, land
  and in-place leases. In the case of the fair value of buildings and the
  allocation of value to land and other intangibles, our estimates of the
  values of these components will affect the amount of depreciation and
  amortization we record over the estimated useful life of the property
  acquired or the remaining lease term. In the case of the value of in-place
  leases, we make our best estimates based on our evaluation of the specific
  characteristics of each tenant's lease. Factors considered include estimates
  of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods, market
  conditions and costs to execute similar leases. Our assumptions affect the
  amount of future revenue that we will recognize over the remaining lease term
  for the acquired in-place leases.

We compute
  depreciation and amortization on our properties using the straight-line
  method based on their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to
  40 years for buildings and five to 15 years for improvements. Amortization
  periods for intangibles are based on the remaining life of the lease.

Allowance for Loan Losses

We maintain an
  allowance for loan losses in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  The allowance for
  loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential
  losses in our loans receivable.  The determination of the allowance is based
  on a quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans.  If this evaluation
  indicates that there is a greater risk of loan charge-offs, additional
  allowances or placement on non-accrual status may be required.  A loan is
  impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that
  we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the
  contractual terms of the original loan agreement.  Consistent with this
  definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired.  To the extent
  circumstances improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we will
  return these loans to full accrual status.

The determination
  of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans,
  including general economic conditions and estimated collectability of loan
  payments and principal. We evaluate the collectability of our loans
  receivable based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to,
  delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the
  borrower and guarantors and value of the underlying property.

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments

The valuation of derivative instruments is accounted for in
  accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires companies to record derivatives at
  fair market value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.

The valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make
  estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. Fair
  values of our forward exchange contracts are estimated using pricing models
  that consider forward currency spot rates, forward trade rates and discount
  rates.  Fair values of our interest rate swaps are estimated by utilizing
  pricing models that consider forward yield curves, discount rates and
  counterparty credit risk. Such amounts and their recognition are subject to
  significant estimates which may change in the future.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Nature of Critical

Accounting Estimate

Assumptions/Approach

Used

Revenue Recognition

Revenue is recorded
  in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires that revenue be recognized after
  four basic criteria are met. These four criteria include persuasive evidence
  of an arrangement, the rendering of service, fixed and determinable income
  and reasonably assured collectability. If the collectability of revenue is
  determined incorrectly, the amount and timing of our reported revenue could
  be significantly affected. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned
  based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of
  collectability risk. Substantially all of our operating leases contain fixed
  and/or contingent escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental
  escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial
  lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related
  to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on
  the contractual cash rental payments due for the period.  We recognize
  resident fees and services, other than move-in fees, monthly as services are
  provided.  Lease agreements with residents generally have a term of one year
  and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days’ notice.

We evaluate the
  collectability of our revenues and related receivables on an on-going basis.
  We evaluate collectability based on assumptions and other considerations
  including, but not limited to, the certainty of payment, payment history, the
  financial strength of the investment’s underlying operations as measured by
  cash flows and payment coverages, the value of the underlying collateral and
  guaranties and current economic conditions.

If our evaluation
  indicates that collectability is not reasonably assured, we may place an
  investment on non-accrual or reserve against all or a portion of current
  income as an offset to revenue.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

We review our
  long-lived assets for potential impairment in accordance with U.S. GAAP. An
  impairment charge must be recognized when the carrying value of a long-lived
  asset is not recoverable.  The carrying value is not recoverable if it
  exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the
  use and eventual disposition of the asset.  If it is determined that a
  permanent impairment of a long-lived asset has occurred, the carrying value
  of the asset is reduced to its fair value and an impairment charge is
  recognized for the difference between the carrying value and the fair value.

The net book value
  of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to
  determine if there are indicators of impairment.  These indicators may
  include anticipated operating losses at the property level, the tenant’s
  inability to make rent payments, a decision to dispose of an asset before the
  end of its estimated useful life and changes in the market that may
  permanently reduce the value of the property.  If indicators of impairment
  exist, then the undiscounted future cash flows from the most likely use of
  the property are compared to the current net book value.  This analysis
  requires us to determine if indicators of impairment exist and to estimate
  the most likely stream of cash flows to be generated from the property during
  the period the property is expected to be held.


Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We are exposed to
various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes
in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We seek to mitigate the

underlying
foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative contracts
hedging these exposures.

We seek to mitigate the
effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new
investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. We
may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest
rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on our policy to match our
variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the
general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of
the future volatility of interest rates. This section is a discussion of the
risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates. For additional information, see “Item 7 —
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Critical Accounting Policies” and Notes 11 and 16 to our
consolidated financial statements.

We historically borrow
on our primary unsecured credit facility to acquire, construct or make loans
relating to health care and seniors housing properties. Then, as market
conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay
the borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility.  We are subject to
risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing
indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be
as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. The majority of our
borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit
the amount of indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, in the event that we are
unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations,
our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited.

A change in interest
rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt.
Interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate
debt. Changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate
debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on
whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or
equity or repaid by the sale of assets. To illustrate the impact of changes in
the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed
rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values
arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the
instruments’ change in fair value. The following table summarizes the analysis
performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands):

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

Principal
  balance

Fair
  value change

Principal
  balance

Fair
  value change

Senior unsecured notes

$

7,965,107

$

(519,901)

$

7,101,655

$

(547,358)

Secured debt

2,757,123

(91,376)

2,673,480

(93,580)

Totals

$

10,722,230

$

(611,277)

$

9,775,135

$

(640,938)

Our variable rate debt, including our unsecured
line of credit arrangements, is reflected at fair value. At December 31, 2015,
we had $2,236,733,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. Assuming
no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would
result in increased annual interest expense of $22,367,000. At December 31,
2014, we had $983,783,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt.
Assuming no changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates
would have resulted in increased annual interest expense of $9,838,000.

We are subject to currency fluctuations that may,
from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Increases or decreases in the value of the Canadian Dollar or Pounds Sterling
relative to the U.S. Dollar impacts the amount of net income we earn from our
investments in Canada and the United Kingdom. Based solely on our results for
the twelve months ended December 31, 2015, if these exchange rates were to
increase or decrease by 100 basis points, our net income from these investments
would decrease or increase, as applicable, by less than $1,000,000 for the
twelve-month period.  We seek to mitigate these underlying foreign currency
exposures with non-U.S. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on
derivative contracts hedging these exposures.  If we increase our international
presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors
housing and health care properties outside the United States, we may also
decide to transact additional business or borrow funds in currencies other than
the U.S. Dollar, Canadian Dollars or Pounds Sterling. To illustrate the impact
of changes in foreign currency markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on
our derivative portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values
arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in foreign currency exchange rates to
determine the instruments’ change in fair value.  The following table
summarizes the results of the analysis performed, excluding cross currency
hedge activity (dollars in thousands):

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

Carrying
  value

Fair
  value change

Carrying
  value

Fair
  value change

Foreign currency exchange contracts

$

117,452

$

1,915

$

54,247

$

4,242

Debt designated as hedges

1,728,979

13,000

1,851,189

13,000

Totals

$

1,846,431

$

14,915

$

1,905,436

$

17,242


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
of Welltower Inc.

We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Welltower Inc. as of December 31,
2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income,
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2015. Our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in
Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. These financial statements and schedules are
the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements and schedules based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit also includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Welltower Inc. at December 31,
2015 and 2014, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation
to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 2
to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its presentation
of debt issuance costs as a result of the adoption of the amendments to the
FASB Accounting Standards Codification resulting from Accounting Standards
Update No. 2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs.

We have also audited,
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), Welltower Inc.’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated
February 18, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/

Ernst & Young

LLP

Toledo

, Ohio

February 18, 2016


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

WELLTOWER, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

December
  31,

December
  31,



Assets

(In
  thousands)

Real estate investments:

Real property owned:

Land and land improvements

$

2,563,445

$

2,046,541

Buildings and improvements

25,522,542

21,799,313

Acquired lease intangibles

1,350,585

1,135,936

Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation

169,950

323,818

Construction in progress

258,968

186,327

Gross real property owned

29,865,490

25,491,935

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization

(3,796,297)

(3,020,908)

Net real property owned

26,069,193

22,471,027

Real estate loans receivable

819,492

380,169

Net real estate investments

26,888,685

22,851,196

Other assets:

Investments in unconsolidated entities

542,281

744,151

Goodwill

68,321

68,321

Cash and cash equivalents

360,908

473,726

Restricted cash

61,782

79,697

Straight-line receivable

395,562

279,806

Receivables and other assets

706,306

466,026

Total other assets

2,135,160

2,111,727

Total assets

$

29,023,845

$

24,962,923

Liabilities and equity

Liabilities:

Borrowings under primary unsecured credit facility

$

835,000

$

-

Senior unsecured notes

8,548,055

7,729,405

Secured debt

3,509,142

2,963,186

Capital lease obligations

75,489

84,049

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

697,191

626,825

Total liabilities

13,664,877

11,403,465

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

183,083

86,409

Equity:

Preferred stock

1,006,250

1,006,250

Common stock

354,811

328,835

Capital in excess of par value

16,478,300

14,740,712

Treasury stock

(44,372)

(35,241)

Cumulative net income

3,725,772

2,842,022

Cumulative dividends

(6,846,056)

(5,635,923)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

(88,243)

(77,009)

Other equity

4,098

5,507

Total Welltower Inc. stockholders’ equity

14,590,560

13,175,153

Noncontrolling interests

585,325

297,896

Total equity

15,175,885

13,473,049

Total liabilities and equity

$

29,023,845

$

24,962,923

See accompanying
notes


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

(In thousands, except per
share data)

Year
  Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Rental income

$

1,598,948

$

1,405,767

$

1,227,589

Resident fees and services

2,158,031

1,892,237

1,616,290

Interest income

84,141

37,667

32,663

Other income

18,706

7,875

4,066

Total revenues

3,859,826

3,343,546

2,880,608

Expenses:

Interest expense

492,169

481,039

458,360

Property operating expenses

1,622,257

1,403,358

1,206,813

Depreciation and amortization

826,240

844,130

865,800

General and administrative

147,416

142,943

108,318

Transaction costs

110,926

69,538

133,401

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

(58,427)

(1,495)

4,470

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

34,677

9,558

(909)

Provision for loan losses

-

-

2,110

Impairment of assets

2,220

-

-

Other expenses

46,231

10,262

-

Total expenses

3,223,709

2,959,333

2,778,363

Income from continuing operations before income taxes

and income from unconsolidated entities

636,117

384,213

102,245

Income tax (expense) benefit

(6,451)

1,267

(7,491)

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

(21,504)

(27,426)

(8,187)

Income from continuing operations

608,162

358,054

86,567

Discontinued operations:

Gain (loss) on sales of properties, net

-

6,411

49,138

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

-


2,575

Discontinued operations, net

-

7,135

51,713

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

280,387

147,111

-

Net income

888,549

512,300

138,280

Less:  Preferred stock dividends

65,406

65,408

66,336

Less:  Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling
  interests

(1)

4,799


(6,770)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

818,344

$

446,745

$

78,714

Average number of common shares outstanding:

Basic

348,240

306,272

276,929

Diluted

349,424

307,747

278,761

Earnings per share:

Basic:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common

stockholders, including real estate dispositions

$

2.35

$

1.44

$

0.10

Discontinued operations, net

-

0.02

0.19

Net income attributable to common stockholders*

$

2.35

$

1.46

$

0.28

Diluted:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common

stockholders, including real estate dispositions

$

2.34

$

1.43

$

0.10

Discontinued operations, net

-

0.02

0.19

Net income attributable to common stockholders*

$

2.34

$

1.45

$

0.28

*

Amounts may not sum
due to rounding

(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling
interests

See accompanying notes


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (CONTINUED)

WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

(In thousands)

Year
  Ended December 31,




Net income

$

888,549

$

512,300

$

138,280

Other comprehensive income (loss):

Unrecognized gain/(loss) on equity investments

-


(173)

Unrecognized gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges

(766)

4,409

1,898

Unrecognized actuarial gain/(loss)


(137)

1,522

Foreign currency translation gain/(loss)

(46,679)

(71,964)

(23,247)

Total other comprehensive income (loss)

(47,199)

(67,303)

(20,000)

Total comprehensive income

841,350

444,997

118,280

Total comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling
  interests

(1)

(31,166)

(14,678)

(13,267)

Total comprehensive income attributable to stockholders

$

810,184

$

430,319

$

105,013

(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling
  interests.

See accompanying notes


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

(in
  thousands)

Accumulated

Capital
  in

Other

Preferred

Common

Excess
  of

Treasury

Cumulative

Cumulative

Comprehensive

Other

Noncontrolling

Stock

Stock

Par
  Value

Stock

Net
  Income

Dividends

Income

Equity

Interests

Total

Balances at December 31, 2012

$

1,022,917

$

260,396

$

10,543,690

$

(17,875)

$

2,184,819

$

(3,694,579)

$

(11,028)

$

6,461

$

225,718

$

10,520,519

Comprehensive income:

Net income

145,050

(5,487)

139,563

Other comprehensive income:

(13,503)

(6,497)

(20,000)

Total comprehensive income

119,563

Net change in noncontrolling interests

1,109

23,815

128,014

152,938

Amounts related to issuance of common stock

from dividend reinvestment and stock

incentive plans, net of forfeitures

3,852

239,837

(3,388)

(1,555)

238,746

Net proceeds from sale of common stock

23,000

1,607,281

1,630,281

Net proceeds from sale of preferred stock

Equity component of convertible debt


(1,543)

(555)

Equity consideration in business combinations

Proceeds from issuance of preferred shares

Redemption of preferred stock

Conversion of preferred stock

(5,556)


5,440

-

Option compensation expense

1,114

1,114

Cash dividends paid:

Common stock cash dividends

(839,939)

(839,939)

Preferred stock cash dividends

(66,336)

(66,336)

Balances at December 31, 2013

1,017,361

289,461

12,418,520

(21,263)

2,329,869

(4,600,854)

(24,531)

6,020

341,748

11,756,331

Comprehensive income:

Net income

512,153

(342)

511,811

Other comprehensive income:

(52,478)

(14,825)

(67,303)

Total comprehensive income

444,508

Net change in noncontrolling interests

(17,653)

(28,685)

(46,338)

Amounts related to issuance of common stock

from dividend reinvestment and stock

incentive plans, net of forfeitures

4,958

297,975

(13,978)

(1,425)

287,530

Net proceeds from sale of common stock

33,925

2,030,057

2,063,982

Equity component of convertible debt



1,193

Equity consideration in business combinations

Proceeds from issuance of preferred shares

Redemption of preferred stock

Conversion of preferred stock

(11,111)


10,878

-

Option compensation expense



Cash dividends paid:

Common stock cash dividends

(969,661)

(969,661)

Preferred stock cash dividends

(65,408)

(65,408)

Balances at December 31, 2014

1,006,250

328,835

14,740,712

(35,241)

2,842,022

(5,635,923)

(77,009)

5,507

297,896

13,473,049

Comprehensive income:

Net income

883,750

4,878

888,628

Other comprehensive income:

(11,234)

(35,965)

(47,199)

Total comprehensive income

841,429

Net change in noncontrolling interests

(23,077)

318,516

295,439

Amounts related to issuance of common stock

from dividend reinvestment and stock

incentive plans, net of forfeitures

4,400

305,022

(9,131)

(2,107)

298,184

Net proceeds from sale of common stock

20,246

1,450,212

1,470,458

Equity component of convertible debt

1,330

5,431

6,761

Option compensation expense



Cash dividends paid:

Common stock cash dividends

(1,144,727)

(1,144,727)

Preferred stock cash dividends

(65,406)

(65,406)

Balances at December 31, 2015

$

1,006,250

$

354,811

$

16,478,300

$

(44,372)

$

3,725,772

$

(6,846,056)

$

(88,243)

$

4,098

$

585,325

$

15,175,885

See accompanying notes


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Year
  Ended December 31,

(In thousands)




Operating activities

Net income

$

888,549

$

512,300

$

138,280

Adjustments to reconcile net income to

net cash provided from (used in) operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

826,240

844,130

873,960

Other amortization expenses

4,991

6,971

8,097

Provision for loan losses

-

-

2,110

Impairment of assets

2,220

-

-

Stock-based compensation expense

30,844

32,075

20,177

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

(58,427)

(1,495)

4,470

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

34,677

9,558

(909)

Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities

21,504

27,426

8,187

Rental income in excess of cash received

(115,756)

(74,552)

(46,068)

Amortization related to above (below) market leases, net

4,018



Loss (gain) on sales of properties, net

(280,387)

(153,522)

(49,138)

Other (income) expense, net

31,979

-

-

Distributions by unconsolidated entities


9,060

8,885

Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other liabilities

(18,099)

(48,381)

67,557

Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets


(25,639)

(47,571)

Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities

1,373,468

1,138,670

988,497

Investing activities

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

(3,364,891)

(2,210,600)

(3,597,955)

Cash disbursed for capital improvements to existing properties

(187,752)

(132,780)

(135,832)

Cash disbursed for construction in progress

(244,561)

(197,881)

(247,560)

Capitalized interest

(8,670)

(7,150)

(6,700)

Investment in real estate loans receivable

(598,722)

(202,207)

(117,059)

Other investments, net of payments

(141,994)

(100,033)

(15,634)

Principal collected on real estate loans receivable

131,830

105,496

102,886

Contributions to unconsolidated entities

(160,323)

(353,496)

(99,769)

Distributions by unconsolidated entities

130,880

57,183

30,853

Proceeds from (payments on) derivatives

106,360

10,269

(6,803)

Decrease (increase) in restricted cash

29,719

(6,072)

79,957

Proceeds from sales of real property

823,964

911,065

482,023

Net cash provided from (used in) investing activities

(3,484,160)

(2,126,206)

(3,531,593)

Financing activities

Net increase (decrease) under unsecured lines of credit
  arrangements

835,000

(130,000)

130,000

Proceeds from issuance of senior unsecured notes

1,451,434

773,992

1,756,192

Payments to extinguish senior unsecured notes

(558,830)

(365,188)

(517,625)

Net proceeds from the issuance of secured debt

228,685

109,503

89,208

Payments on secured debt

(573,390)

(341,839)

(674,103)

Net proceeds from the issuance of common stock

1,755,722

2,343,868

1,854,637

Decrease (increase) in deferred loan expenses

(11,513)

(16,782)

(13,503)

Contributions by noncontrolling interests

(1)

173,018

9,962

5,072

Distributions to noncontrolling interests

(1)

(50,877)

(43,691)

(35,592)

Acquisitions of noncontrolling interests

(5,663)

(1,175)

(23,247)

Cash distributions to stockholders

(1,210,133)

(1,035,069)

(906,275)

Other financing activities

(27,004)

(409)

2,906

Net cash provided from (used in) financing activities

2,006,449

1,303,172

1,667,670

Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash
  equivalents

(8,575)

(690)


Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

(112,818)

314,946

(874,984)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

473,726

158,780

1,033,764

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

360,908

$

473,726

$

158,780

Supplemental cash flow information:

Interest paid

$

492,771

$

504,165

$

447,108

Income taxes paid

12,214

18,548

12,110

(1)

Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling
interests.

See accompanying notes.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Business

Welltower Inc. (formerly Health Care
REIT, Inc.), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving
the transformation of health care infrastructure.  The Company invests with
leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems to
fund the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care
delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care
experience.  Welltower

TM

, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns
1,482 properties in major, high-growth markets in the United States, Canada and
the United Kingdom, consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities
and outpatient medical properties.  Founded in 1970, we were the first REIT to
invest exclusively in health care facilities.

2. Accounting
Policies and Related Matters

Principles of Consolidation

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned
subsidiaries and joint venture (“JV”) entities that we control, through voting
rights or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have
been eliminated in consolidation. At inception of JV transactions, we identify
entities for which control is achieved through means other than voting rights
(“variable interest entities” or “VIEs”) and determine which business
enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A VIE is broadly
defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a group, if
any, do not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity
investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without
additional subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments in VIEs
when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary.  Accounting Standards
Codification Topic 810,

Consolidations

(“ASC 810”), requires enterprises
to perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a VIE will need
to be consolidated on a continuous basis. This evaluation is based on an
enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the activities of a VIE that most
significantly impact that entity’s economic performance. For investments in JVs,
we evaluate the type of rights held by the limited partner(s), which may
preclude consolidation in circumstances in which the sole general partner would otherwise consolidate the limited partnership. The assessment of limited
partners’ rights and their impact on the presumption of control over a limited
partnership by the sole general partner should be made when an investor becomes
the sole general partner and should be reassessed if (i) there is a change
to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, (ii) the sole general

partner increases or decreases its
ownership in the limited partnership, or (iii) there is an increase or
decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We similarly
evaluate the rights of managing members of limited liability companies.

Use of
Estimates

The
preparation of the financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) requires us to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements
and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Revenue
Recognition

Revenue
is recorded in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires that revenue be
recognized after four basic criteria are met. These four criteria include
persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the rendering of service, fixed and
determinable income and reasonably assured collectability. Interest income on
loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding
subject to an evaluation of collectability risk. Substantially all of our
operating leases contain escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual
rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the
initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income
related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based
on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period.  Leases in our outpatient
medical portfolio typically include some form of operating expense
reimbursement by the tenant.  Certain payments made to operators are treated as
lease incentives and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the lease term. 
We recognize resident fees and services, other than move-in fees, monthly as
services are provided.  Lease agreements with residents generally have a term
of one year and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days’ notice.

Cash and
Cash Equivalents

Cash
and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an original
maturity of three months or less.

Restricted
Cash

Restricted
cash primarily consists of amounts held by lenders to provide future payments
for real estate taxes, insurance, tenant and capital improvements and amounts
held in escrow relating to acquisitions we are entitled to receive over a
period of time as outlined in the escrow agreement.

Deferred
Loan Expenses

Deferred
loan expenses are costs incurred by us in connection with the issuance,
assumption and amendments of debt


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

arrangements. We
amortize these costs over the term of the debt using the straight-line method,
which approximates the effective interest method.

Investments
in Unconsolidated Entities

Investments
in entities that we do not consolidate but have the ability to exercise
significant influence over operating and financial policies are reported under
the equity method of accounting.  Under the equity method, our share of the
investee’s earnings or losses is included in our consolidated results of
operations. To the extent that our cost basis is different from the basis
reflected at the entity level, the basis difference is generally amortized over
the lives of the related assets and liabilities, and such amortization is
included in our share of equity in earnings of the entity.  The initial
carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on the amount
paid to purchase the entity interest or the estimated fair value of the assets
prior to the sale of interests in the entity. We evaluate our equity method
investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value
of the equity method investment to its carrying value. When we determine a
decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying
value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.

Marketable
Securities

We
classify marketable securities as available-for-sale.  These securities are
carried at their fair value with unrealized gains and losses recognized in
stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss).  When we determine declines in fair value of marketable securities are
other-than-temporary, a loss is recognized in earnings.

Redeemable
Noncontrolling Interests

Certain
noncontrolling interests are redeemable at fair value.  Accordingly, we record
the carrying amount of the noncontrolling interests at the greater of (i) the
initial carrying amount, increased or decreased for the noncontrolling
interest’s share of net income or loss and its share of other comprehensive
income or loss and dividends or (ii) the redemption value.  If it is probable
that the interests will be redeemed in the future, we accrete the carrying
value to the redemption value over the period until expected redemption,
currently a weighted-average period of approximately four years.  In accordance
with ASC 810, the redeemable noncontrolling interests are classified outside of
permanent equity, as a mezzanine item, in the balance sheet.  At December 31,
2015, the current redemption value of redeemable noncontrolling interests
exceeded the carrying value of $183,083,000 by $116,000,000.

During 2014 and 2015,
we entered into DownREIT partnerships which give a real estate seller the
ability to exchange its property on a tax deferred basis for equity membership
interests (“OP units”).  The OP units may be redeemed any time following the
first anniversary of the date of issuance at the election of the holders for
one share of our common stock per unit or, at our option, cash.

Real
Property Owned

Real
property developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of
construction period interest. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are
expensed as incurred.  Property acquisitions are accounted for as business
combinations where we measure the assets acquired, liabilities (including
assumed debt and contingencies) and any noncontrolling interests at their fair
values on the acquisition date.  The cost of real property acquired, which
represents substantially all of the purchase price, is allocated to net
tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their respective fair
values. These properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and 5
to 15 years for improvements. Tangible assets primarily consist of land,
buildings and improvements, including those related to capital leases.  We
consider costs incurred in conjunction with re-leasing properties, including
tenant improvements and lease commissions, to represent the acquisition of
productive assets and, accordingly, such costs are reflected as investment
activities in our statement of cash flows.

The remaining purchase
price is allocated among identifiable intangible assets primarily consisting of
the above or below market component of in-place leases and the value associated
with the presence of in-place tenants or residents.  The value allocable to the
above or below market component of the acquired in-place lease is determined
based upon the present value (using a discount rate which reflects the risks
associated with the acquired leases) of the difference between (i) the
contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the lease over its remaining term,
and (ii) management’s estimate of the amounts that would be paid using
fair market rates over the remaining term of the lease. The amounts allocated
to above market leases are included in acquired lease intangibles and below market
leases are included in other liabilities in the balance sheet and are amortized
to rental income over the remaining terms of the respective leases.

The total amount of
other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease values
and customer relationship values for in-place tenants based on management’s
evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease and our overall
relationship with that respective tenant. Characteristics considered by
management in allocating these values include the nature and extent of our existing
business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new
business with the tenant, the tenant’s credit quality and expectations of lease
renewals, among other factors

.  The total amount of other intangible
assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease values for in-place
residents with such value representing (i) value associated with lost revenue
related to


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

tenant reimbursable operating costs that
would be incurred in an assumed re-leasing period, and (ii) value associated
with lost rental revenue from existing leases during an assumed re-leasing
period.  This intangible asset will be amortized over the remaining life of the
lease.

The net book value of
long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to
determine if facts and circumstances suggest that the assets may be impaired or
that the depreciable life may need to be changed. We consider external factors
relating to each asset and the existence of a master lease which may link the
cash flows of an individual asset to a larger portfolio of assets leased to the
same tenant. If these factors and the projected undiscounted cash flows of the
asset over the remaining depreciation period indicate that the asset will not
be recoverable, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair market value.

In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating
investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health
care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect
the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or
on terms acceptable to us.

Capitalization
of Construction Period Interest

We
capitalize interest costs associated with funds used for the construction of
properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the balance
outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest which
approximates our cost of financing. We capitalize interest costs related to
construction of real property owned by us. Our interest expense reflected in
the consolidated statements of comprehensive income has been reduced by the
amounts capitalized.

Gain on
Sale of Assets

We
recognize sales of assets only upon the closing of the transaction with the
purchaser. Payments received from purchasers prior to closing are recorded as
deposits and classified as other assets on our consolidated balance sheets.
Gains on assets sold are recognized using the full accrual method upon closing
when (i) the collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured, (ii) we
are not obligated to perform significant activities after the sale to earn the
profit, (iii) we have received adequate initial investment from the purchaser
and (iv) other profit recognition criteria have been satisfied. Gains may be
deferred in whole or in part until the sales satisfy the requirements of gain
recognition on sales of real estate.

Real
Estate Loans Receivable

Real
estate loans receivable consist of mortgage loans and other real estate loans.
Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal
amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectability risks. The loans
are primarily collateralized by a first, second or third mortgage lien, a
leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the partnership interest in, the
related properties, corporate guaranties and/or personal guaranties.

Allowance
for Losses on Loans Receivable

The
allowance for losses on loans receivable is maintained at a level believed
adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The determination
of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of these loans, including
general economic conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments. We
evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable based on a combination of
factors, including, but not limited to, delinquency status, historical loan
charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and guarantors and value of the
underlying collateral. If such factors indicate that there is greater risk of
loan charge-offs, additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may
be required. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events,
it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled
according to the contractual terms of the original loan agreement. Consistent
with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired. To the
extent circumstances improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we
will return these loans to full accrual status. While a loan is on non-accrual
status, any cash receipts are applied against the outstanding principal balance.

Goodwill

We
account for goodwill in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Goodwill is tested annually
for impairment and is tested for impairment more frequently if events and
circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. An impairment loss is
recognized to the extent that the carrying amount, including goodwill, exceeds
the reporting unit’s fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill is less
than the carrying amount of that goodwill.  We have not had any goodwill
impairments.

Fair Value of Derivative
Instruments

Derivatives
are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.  The
valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make estimates and judgments
that affect the fair value of the instruments.  Fair values of our derivatives
are estimated by pricing models that consider the forward yield curves and
discount rates.  The fair value of our forward exchange contracts are estimated
by pricing models that consider foreign currency spot rates, forward trade
rates and discount rates.  Such amounts and the recognition of such amounts are
subject to significant estimates that may change in the future. See
Note 11 for additional information.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Federal Income Tax

We
have elected to be treated as a REIT under the applicable provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), commencing with our
first taxable year, and made no provision for federal income tax purposes prior
to our acquisition of our “taxable REIT subsidiaries.” As a result of these as
well as subsequent acquisitions, we now record income tax expense or benefit
with respect to certain of our entities that are taxed as taxable REIT
subsidiaries under provisions similar to those applicable to regular
corporations and not under the REIT provisions. We account for deferred income
taxes using the asset and liability method and recognize deferred tax assets
and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have
been included in our financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, we
determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between
the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted
tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to
reverse. Any increase or decrease in the deferred tax liability that results
from a change in circumstances, and that causes a change in our judgment about
expected future tax consequences of events, is included in the tax provision
when such changes occur. Deferred income taxes also reflect the impact of
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided
if we believe it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the
deferred tax asset will not be realized. Any increase or decrease in the
valuation allowance that results from a change in circumstances, and that
causes a change in our judgment about the realizability of the related deferred
tax asset, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur.  See
Note 18 for additional information.

Foreign
Currency

Certain of our
subsidiaries’ functional currencies are the local currencies of their
respective countries. We translate the results of operations of our foreign
subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using average rates of exchange in effect during
the period, and we translate balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in
effect at the end of the period. We record resulting currency translation
adjustments in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of
stockholders’ equity, on our consolidated balance sheets. We record transaction
gains and losses in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income.

Earnings
Per Share

Basic
earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common
stockholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding for the
period adjusted for non-vested shares of restricted stock. The computation of
diluted earnings per share is similar to basic earnings per share, except that
the number of shares is increased to include the number of additional common
shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common
shares had been issued.

New
Accounting Standards

In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, “Revenue from
Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” (“ASU 2014-09”).  The standard is a
comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires revenue to be
recognized in a manner to depict the transfer of goods or services to a
customer at an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received
in exchange for those goods or services.  ASU 2014-09 is effective for fiscal
years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15,
2017, and early adoption is permitted beginning after December 15, 2016.  We
are currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on our
consolidated financial statements and have not yet determined the method by
which we will adopt the standard.

In February 2015, the
FASB issued ASU No. 2015-02, “Consolidation (Topic 810): Amendments to the
Consolidation Analysis” (“ASU 2015-02”), which makes certain changes to both
the variable interest model and the voting interest model, including changes to
(1) the identification of variable interests (fees paid to a decision maker or
service provider), (2) the variable interest entity characteristics for a
limited partnership or similar entity and (3) the primary beneficiary
determination.  ASU 2015-02 is effective beginning January 1, 2016.  We are
continuing to evaluate this guidance; however, we do not expect its adoption to
have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In April 2015, the FASB
issued ASU No. 2015-03, “Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs”
(“ASU 2015-03”), which requires that debt issuance costs related to a
recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct
deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability.  The recognition and
measurement guidance for debt issuance costs are not affected.  Also in August
2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-15, “Presentation and Subsequent Measurement
of Debt Issuance Costs Associated with Line-of-Credit Arrangements” (“ASU
2015-15”), which clarifies the SEC staff’s position not objecting to an entity
deferring and presenting debt issuance costs as an asset and subsequently
amortizing such costs, regardless of whether there are any outstanding
borrowings on the line-of-credit arrangement.  We adopted ASU 2015-03 and
2015-15 for the year ended December 31, 2015.  There were deferred financing
costs of $56,696,000 and $51,373,000 as of December 31, 2015 and 2014,
respectively, that are now classified within senior unsecured notes and secured
debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

In September 2015, the
FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16, “Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period
Adjustments” (“ASU 2015-16”).  This guidance eliminated the requirement that an
acquirer in a business combination account for adjustments it makes to the
provisional amounts retrospectively.  Instead, an acquirer recognizes these
measurement-period adjustments during the


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

period in
which they are determined, including the effect on earnings of any amounts the
acquirer would have recorded in previous periods if the accounting had been
completed at the acquisition date.  ASU 2015-16 is effective beginning January
1, 2016.  We are continuing to evaluate this guidance; however, we do not
expect its adoption to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial
statements.

Reclassifications

Certain
amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to current year
presentation.

3. Real Property Acquisitions and Development

The total purchase price
for all properties acquired has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable
intangible assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests based upon their
respective fair values in accordance with our accounting policies.

The results of operations for these acquisitions have been
included in our consolidated results of operations since the date of
acquisition and are a component of the appropriate segments.  Transaction costs
primarily represent costs incurred with property acquisitions, including due
diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation services and termination of
pre-existing relationships computed based on the fair value of the assets
acquired, lease termination fees and other acquisition-related costs.  Certain
of our subsidiaries’ functional currencies are the local currencies of their
respective countries.  See Note 2 for information regarding our foreign
currency policies.  During the year ended December 31, 2015, we

finalized
our purchase price allocation of certain previously reported acquisitions and
there were no material changes from those previously disclosed.

Triple-Net Activity

The following provides our
purchase price allocations and other triple-net real property investment
activity for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,


(1)



Land and land improvements

$

142,854

$

141,387

$

54,596

Buildings and improvements

1,358,717

1,365,638

360,594

Acquired lease intangibles

4,408

19,196

-

Restricted cash


-


Receivables and other assets


4,895

1,020

Total assets acquired

(2)

1,506,179

1,531,116

416,399

Secured debt

(47,741)

(130,638)

(9,810)

Senior unsecured notes

-

(48,567)

-

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

(2,905)

(9,067)

(540)

Total liabilities assumed

(50,646)

(188,272)

(10,350)

Noncontrolling interests

(13,465)

-

-

Non-cash acquisition related activity

(3)

(38,355)

(3,453)

(12,207)

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

1,403,713

1,339,391

393,842

Construction in progress additions

143,140

135,349

145,624

Less:  Capitalized interest

(5,699)

(4,582)

(4,828)

Accruals

Foreign currency translation

(167)


-

Non-cash related activity

-

(14,459)

-

Cash disbursed for construction in progress

137,274

116,729

140,796

Capital improvements to existing properties

45,293

18,901

35,912

Total cash invested in real property, net of cash acquired

$

1,586,280

$

1,475,021

$

570,550

(1) Includes acquisitions with an aggregate purchase price of
  $910,433,000 for which the allocation of the purchase price consideration is
  preliminary and subject to change.

(2) Excludes $16,572,000, $1,382,000, and $0 of cash acquired
  during the year ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

(3) For the year ended December 31, 2015, $23,288,000 relates to
  the acquisition of assets previously financed as real estate loans receivable
  and $6,743,000 previously financed as equity investments.  For the year ended
  December 31, 2013, $12,204,000 relates to an asset swap transaction.  Please
  refer to Notes 5 and 6.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Seniors Housing Operating Activity

Acquisitions of seniors
housing operating properties are structured under RIDEA, which is described in
Note 18.  This structure results in the inclusion of all resident revenues and
related property operating expenses from the operation of these qualified
health care properties in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income.

The following is a summary of our seniors housing operating real
property investment activity for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,


(1)



Land and land improvements

$

218,581

$

57,534

$

445,152

Buildings and improvements

2,367,486

297,314

4,275,046

Acquired lease intangibles

187,512

12,983

396,444

Construction in progress

-

27,957

-

Restricted cash

11,798


44,427

Receivables and other assets

29,501

9,327

79,564

Total assets acquired

(2)

2,814,878

405,919

5,240,633

Secured debt

(871,471)

(19,834)

(1,275,245)

Senior unsecured notes

(24,621)

-

-

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

(81,778)

(17,802)

(96,709)

Total liabilities assumed

(977,870)

(37,636)

(1,371,954)

Noncontrolling interests

(183,854)

(482)

(232,575)

Non-cash acquisition related activity

(3)

-

-

(555,563)

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

1,653,154

367,801

3,080,541

Construction in progress additions

44,173

12,291

3,894

Less:  Capitalized interest

(1,740)

(714)

(57)

Less:  Foreign currency translation

(2,499)

(2,012)

-

Cash disbursed for construction in progress

39,934

9,565

3,837

Capital improvements to existing properties

104,308

86,803

72,258

Total cash invested in real property, net of cash acquired

$

1,797,396

$

464,169

$

3,156,636

(1) Includes an aggregate purchase price of $2,002,698,000
  relating to acquisitions for which the allocation of the purchase price
  consideration is preliminary and subject to change.

(2) Excludes $30,930,000, $9,060,000 and $92,148,000 of cash
  acquired during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013,
  respectively.

(3) Represents Sunrise Senior Living loan and noncontrolling
  interest acquisitions during the first quarter of 2013.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Outpatient Medical Activity

Accrued contingent
consideration related to certain outpatient medical acquisitions was $0, $27,374,000
and $26,187,000 as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

The following is a summary of our
outpatient medical real property investment activity for the periods presented
(in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,


(1)



Land and land improvements

$

176,689

$

63,129

$

14,515

Buildings and improvements

317,484

567,847

156,087

Acquired lease intangibles

45,226

46,661

9,432

Restricted cash

-

-


Receivables and other assets


-


Total assets acquired

(2)

540,338

677,637

180,883

Secured debt

(120,977)

(66,113)

(55,884)

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

(7,777)

(22,293)

(1,041)

Total liabilities assumed

(128,754)

(88,406)

(56,925)

Noncontrolling interests

(76,535)

(39,987)

(386)

Non-cash acquisition related activity

(3)

(27,025)

(45,836)

-

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

308,024

503,408

123,572

Construction in progress additions

70,560

99,878

123,494

Less:  Capitalized interest

(1,286)

(1,854)

(1,815)

Accruals

(4)

(1,921)

(26,437)

(18,752)

Cash disbursed for construction in progress

67,353

71,587

102,927

Capital improvements to existing properties

38,151

27,076

27,662

Total cash invested in real property, net of cash acquired

$

413,528

$

602,071

$

254,161

(1) Includes acquisitions with an aggregate purchase price of
  $91,829,000 for which the allocation of the purchase price consideration is
  preliminary and subject to change.

(2) Excludes $5,522,000, $0 and $0 of cash acquired during the
  years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.

(3) Non-cash activity relates to the acquisition of a
  controlling interest in a portfolio of properties that was historically
  reported as an unconsolidated property investment for the year ended December
  31, 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the non-cash activity relates
  to an acquisition of assets previously financed as real estate loans.  Please
  refer to Note 6 for additional information.

(4) Represents non-cash consideration accruals for amounts to be
  paid in future periods relating to properties that converted in the periods
  noted above.

Construction
Activity

The following is a summary of the
construction projects that were placed into service and began generating
revenues during the periods presented

:

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Development projects:

Triple-net

$

104,844

$

71,569

$

133,181

Seniors housing operating

19,869

-

-

Outpatient medical

16,592

127,290

127,363

Total development projects

141,305

198,859

260,544

Expansion projects

38,808

24,804

26,395

Total construction in progress conversions

$

180,113

$

223,663

$

286,939

At December 31, 2015, future
minimum lease payments receivable under operating leases (excluding properties
in our seniors housing operating partnerships and excluding any operating
expense reimbursements) are as follows (in thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


$

1,403,745


1,402,087


1,392,188


1,350,736


1,338,549

Thereafter

11,353,245

Totals

$

18,240,550

4. Real Estate
Intangibles

The following is a summary of our real
estate intangibles, excluding those classified as held for sale, as of the
dates indicated (dollars in thousands):

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

Assets:

In place lease intangibles

$

1,179,537

$

988,290

Above market tenant leases

67,529

65,684

Below market ground leases

80,224

62,426

Lease commissions

23,295

19,536

Gross historical cost

1,350,585

1,135,936

Accumulated amortization

(881,096)

(776,501)

Net book value

$

469,489

$

359,435

Weighted-average amortization period in years

13.4

17.7

Liabilities:

Below market tenant leases

$

93,089

$

91,168

Above market ground leases

7,907

7,859

Gross historical cost

100,996

99,027

Accumulated amortization

(46,048)

(40,891)

Net book value

$

54,948

$

58,136

Weighted-average amortization period in years

14.5

14.4

The following is a summary
of real estate intangible amortization for the periods presented (in
thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Rental income related to above/below market tenant leases, net

$

(2,746)

$


$


Property operating expenses related to above/below market ground
  leases, net

(1,272)

(1,248)

(1,208)

Depreciation and amortization related to in place lease intangibles
  and lease commissions

(115,855)

(214,966)

(246,938)

The future estimated
aggregate amortization of intangible assets and liabilities is as follows for
the periods presented (in thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Assets

Liabilities


$

137,635

$

7,523


81,166

6,812


47,283

6,185


25,582

5,775


22,163

5,294

Thereafter

155,660

23,359

Totals

$

469,489

$

54,948

5. Dispositions,
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations

We
periodically sell properties for various reasons, including favorable market
conditions or the exercise of tenant purchase options.  Impairment of assets as
reflected in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income relate to
properties designated as held for sale and represent the charges necessary to
adjust the carrying values to estimated fair values less costs to sell based on
current sales price expectations.  The following is a summary of our real
property disposition activity for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Real property dispositions:

Triple-net

$

356,300

$

747,720

$

189,572

Outpatient medical

(1)

181,553

45,695

259,367

Land parcels

5,724

-

-

Total dispositions

543,577

793,415

448,939

Gain (loss) on sales of real property, net

280,387

153,522

49,138

Seller financing on sales of real property

-

-

(3,850)

Non-cash disposition activity

-

(35,872)

(12,204)

Proceeds from real property sales

$

823,964

$

911,065

$

482,023

(1) Dispositions occurring in the year ended December 31, 2015
  primarily relate to the disposition of an unconsolidated equity investment
  with Forest City Enterprises.

Dispositions
and Assets Held for Sale

Pursuant to our adoption of ASU No. 2014-08, “Presentation
of Financial Statements (Topic 205) and Property, Plant and Equipment (Topic
360): Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of
Components of an Entity” (ASU 2014-08”), operating results attributable to
properties sold subsequent to or classified as held for sale after January 1,
2014 and which do not meet the definition of discontinued operations are no
longer reclassified on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. 
The following represents the activity related to these properties for the
periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31,




Revenues:

Rental income

$

35,241

$

115,759

$

132,797

Expenses:

Interest expense

5,503

24,046

26,660

Property operating expenses

6,102

7,669

8,970

Provision for depreciation

6,342

35,239

41,494

Total expenses

17,947

66,954

77,124

Income (loss) from real estate dispositions, net

$

17,294

$

48,805

$

55,673

Discontinued
Operations

We
have reclassified the income and expenses attributable to all properties sold
prior to or held for sale at January 1, 2014 to discontinued operations in
accordance with ASU 2014-08.  The following illustrates the reclassification
impact as reported in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income as a
result of classifying these properties as discontinued operations for the years
presented (in thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Rental income

$

-

$


$

18,377

Expenses:

Interest expense

-


4,246

Property operating expenses

-

-

3,396

Provision for depreciation

-

-

8,160

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

$

-

$


$

2,575

6. Real Estate
Loans Receivable

The following is a summary of our real
estate loans receivable (in thousands):

December
  31,



Mortgage loans

$

635,492

$

188,651

Other real estate loans

184,000

191,518

Totals

$

819,492

$

380,169

The following is
a summary of our real estate loan activity for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Outpatient

Outpatient

Outpatient

Triple-net

Medical

Totals

Triple-net

Medical

Totals

Triple-net

Medical

Totals

Advances on real estate loans receivable:

Investments in new loans

$

530,497

$

-

$

530,497

$

61,730

$

60,902

$

122,632

$

41,180

$

4,095

$

45,275

Draws on existing loans

65,614

2,611

68,225

59,420

20,155

79,575

71,315

4,319

75,634

Sub-total

596,111

2,611

598,722

121,150

81,057

202,207

112,495

8,414

120,909

Less: Seller financing on property sales

-

-

-

-

-

-

(3,850)

-

(3,850)

Net cash advances on real estate loans

596,111

2,611

598,722

121,150

81,057

202,207

108,645

8,414

117,059

Receipts on real estate loans receivable:

Loan payoffs

121,778

-

121,778

71,004

48,258

119,262

69,596

-

69,596

Principal payments on loans

33,340

-

33,340

31,998


32,070

33,216


33,290

Sub-total

155,118

-

155,118

103,002

48,330

151,332

102,812


102,886

Less: Non-cash activity

(1)

(23,288)

-

(23,288)

-

(45,836)

(45,836)

-

-

-

Net cash receipts on real estate loans

131,830

-

131,830

103,002

2,494

105,496

102,812


102,886

Net cash advances (receipts) on real estate loans

464,281

2,611

466,892

18,148

78,563

96,711

5,833

8,340

14,173

Change in balance due to foreign currency translation

(4,281)

-

(4,281)

(2,852)

-

(2,852)

1,402

-

1,402

Net change in real estate loans receivable

$

436,712

$

2,611

$

439,323

$

15,296

$

32,727

$

48,023

$

7,235

$

8,340

$

15,575

(1) Represents an acquisition of assets previously financed as a
  real estate loan.  Please see Note 3 for additional information.

The following is a summary of the
allowance for losses on loans receivable for the periods presented (in
thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended December 31,




Balance at beginning of  year

$

-

$

-

$

-

Provision for loan losses

-

-

2,110

Charge-offs

-

-

(2,110)

Balance at end of  year

$

-

$

-

$

-

The
following is a summary of our loan impairments (in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Balance of impaired loans at end of  year

$

-

$

21,000

$


Allowance for loan losses

-

-

-

Balance of impaired loans not reserved

$

-

$

21,000

$


Average impaired loans for the year

$

10,500

$

10,750

$

2,365

Interest recognized on impaired loans

(1)

-



(1) Represents interest recognized prior to placement on
  non-accrual status.

7. Investments
in Unconsolidated Entities

We participate in a number of joint
ventures, which generally invest in seniors housing and health care real
estate.  The results of operations for these properties have been included in
our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition by the
joint ventures and are reflected in our statements of comprehensive income as
income or loss from unconsolidated entities.  The following is a summary of our
investments in unconsolidated entities (dollars in thousands):

Percentage
  Ownership

(1)

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

Triple-net

10%
  to 49%

$

36,351

$

31,511

Seniors housing operating

10%
  to 50%

499,537

539,147

Outpatient medical

36%
  to 49%

6,393

173,493

Total

$

542,281

$

744,151

(1) Excludes ownership of in-substance real estate.

At December
31, 2015, the aggregate unamortized basis difference of our joint venture
investments of $158,204,000 is primarily attributable to appreciation of the
underlying properties and transaction costs.  This difference will be amortized
over the remaining useful life of the related properties and included in the
reported amount of income from unconsolidated entities. Summary combined
financial information for our investments in unconsolidated entities held as of
December 31, 2015 is as follows (dollars in thousands):

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

Net real estate investments

$

1,359,034

$

2,107,201

Other assets

2,241,084

992,637

Total assets

3,600,118

3,099,838

Total liabilities

2,769,093

1,769,457

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

14,024

40,525

Total equity

$

817,001

$

1,289,856

Year
  Ended December 31,




Total revenues

$

2,947,993

$

1,879,240

$

1,739,381

Net income (loss)

(40,116)

5,002

(15,265)


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

8. Credit Concentration

We
use net operating income from continuing operations (“NOI”) as our credit
concentration metric.  See Note 17 for additional information and
reconciliation.  The following table summarizes certain information about our credit
concentration for the year ended December 31, 2015, excluding our share of NOI
in unconsolidated entities (dollars in thousands):

Number
  of

Total

Percent
  of

Concentration by relationship:

(1)

Properties

NOI

NOI

(2)

Genesis Healthcare


$

371,170

17%

Sunrise Senior Living

(3)


299,697

13%

Brookdale Senior Living


166,792

7%

Revera


109,778

5%

Benchmark Senior Living


98,887

4%

Remaining portfolio


1,191,245

54%

Totals

1,426

$

2,237,569

100%

(1) Genesis Healthcare is in our triple-net segment. Sunrise
  Senior Living and Revera are in our seniors housing operating segment.
  Brookdale Senior Living and Benchmark Senior Living are in both our
  triple-net and seniors housing operating segments.

(2) Investments with our top five relationships comprised 49% of
  NOI in 2014.

(3) For the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized
  $948,347,000 of revenue from Sunrise Senior Living.

9. Borrowings
Under Credit Facilities and Related Items

At
December 31, 2015, we had a primary unsecured credit facility with a consortium
of 28 banks that includes a $2,500,000,000 unsecured revolving credit facility,
a $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility and a $250,000,000
Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility.  We have an option,
through an accordion feature, to upsize the unsecured revolving credit facility
and the $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility by up to an additional
$1,000,000,000 and the $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit
facility by up to an additional $250,000,000.  The primary unsecured credit
facility also allows us to borrow up to $500,000,000 in alternate currencies
(none outstanding at December 31, 2015).  Borrowings under the unsecured
revolving credit facility are subject to interest payable at the applicable
margin over LIBOR interest rate (1.347% at December 31, 2015).  The applicable
margin is based on certain of our debt ratings and was 0.925% at December 31,
2015.  In addition, we pay a facility fee quarterly to each bank based on the
bank’s commitment amount.  The facility fee depends on certain of our debt
ratings and was 0.15% at December 31, 2015.  The primary unsecured credit
facility is scheduled to expire October 31, 2018 and can be extended for an
additional year at our option.

The following information relates to
aggregate borrowings under the primary unsecured revolving credit facility for
the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Balance outstanding at year end

(1)

$

835,000

$

-

$

130,000

Maximum amount outstanding at any month end

$

835,000

$

637,000

$

1,019,050

Average amount outstanding (total of daily

principal balances divided by days in period)

$

452,644

$

207,452

$

488,842

Weighted-average interest rate (actual interest

expense divided by average borrowings outstanding)

1.17%

1.50%

1.45%

(1) As of December 31, 2015, letters of credit in the aggregate
  amount of $54,925,000 have been issued which reduce the available borrowing
  capacity on the primary unsecured credit facility.

10. Senior
Unsecured Notes and Secured Debt

We may
repurchase, redeem or refinance convertible and non-convertible senior
unsecured notes from time to time, taking advantage of favorable market
conditions when available. We may purchase senior notes for cash through open
market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, a tender offer or, in some
cases, through the early redemption of such securities pursuant to their terms.  
The non-convertible senior unsecured notes are redeemable at our option, at any
time in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the
sum of (1) the principal amount of the notes (or portion of such notes)
being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon up to the redemption
date and (2) any “make-whole” amount due under the terms of the notes in
connection with early redemptions.   Redemptions and repurchases of debt, if
any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements,
contractual restrictions and other factors.  At December 31, 2015, the annual
principal payments due on these


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

debt obligations were
as follows (in thousands):

Senior

Secured

Unsecured
  Notes

(1,2)

Debt

(1,3)

Totals


$

400,000

$

547,325

$

947,325


450,000

476,661

926,661


450,000

650,763

1,100,763


(4,5)

1,280,649

380,588

1,661,237


(6)

666,779

173,833

840,612

Thereafter

(7,8,9)

5,398,330

1,249,037

6,647,367

Totals

$

8,645,758

$

3,478,207

$

12,123,965

(1) Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not include
  unamortized premiums/discounts, debt issuance costs, or other fair value
  adjustments as reflected on the consolidated balance sheet.

(2) Annual interest rates range from 1.4% to 6.5%.

(3) Annual interest rates range from 1.0% to 7.98%.  Carrying
  value of the properties securing the debt totaled $6,285,511,000 at December
  31, 2015.

(4) On July 25, 2014, we refinanced the funding on a
  $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility
  (approximately $180,649,000 based on the Canadian/U.S. Dollar exchange rate
  on December 31, 2015). The loan matures on October 31, 2018 (with an option
  to extend for an additional year at our discretion) and bears interest at the
  Canadian Dealer Offered Rate plus 97.5 basis points (1.8% at December 31,
  2015).

(5) On July 25, 2014, we refinanced the funding on a
  $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility.  The loan matures on October 31,
  2018 (with an option to extend for one additional year at our discretion) and
  bears interest at LIBOR plus 97.5 basis points (1.4% at December 31, 2015).

(6) In November 2015, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries
  issued and we guaranteed $300,000,000 of Canadian-denominated 3.35% senior
  unsecured notes due 2020 (approximately $216,779,000 based on the
  Canadian/U.S. Dollar exchange rate on December 31, 2015).

(7) On November 20, 2013, we completed funding on £550,000,000
  (approximately $811,030,000 based on the Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange rate
  on December 31, 2015) of 4.8% senior unsecured notes due 2028.

(8) On November 25, 2014, we completed funding on £500,000,000
  (approximately $737,300,000 based on the Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange rate
  on December 31, 2015) of 4.5% senior unsecured notes due 2034.

(9) In May 2015, we issued $750,000,000 of 4.0% senior unsecured
  notes due 2025.  In October 2015, we issued an additional $500,000,000 of
  these notes under a re-opening of the offer.

The following is a summary of our senior unsecured note principal activity during
the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Beginning balance

$

7,817,154

4.385%

$

7,421,707

4.395%

$

5,894,403

4.675%

Debt issued

1,475,540

3.901%

838,804

4.572%

2,036,930

3.824%

Debt assumed

24,621

6.000%

-

0.000%

-

0.000%

Debt extinguished

(300,000)

6.200%

(298,567)

5.855%

(300,000)

6.000%

Debt redeemed

(240,249)

3.303%

(59,143)

3.000%

(219,295)

3.000%

Foreign currency

(131,308)

3.966%

(85,647)

4.222%

9,669

3.993%

Ending balance

$

8,645,758

4.237%

$

7,817,154

4.385%

$

7,421,707

4.395%

During the twelve
months ended December 31, 2010, we issued $494,403,000 of 3.00% senior
unsecured convertible notes due December 2029. The notes are convertible, in
certain circumstances, into cash and, if applicable, shares of common stock at
an initial conversion rate of 19.5064 shares per $1,000 principal amount of
notes, which represents an initial conversion price of $51.27 per share. In
general, upon conversion, the holder of each note would receive, in respect of
the conversion value of such note, cash up to the principal amount of such note
and common stock for the note’s conversion value in excess of such principal
amount. In addition, on each of December 1, 2019 and December 1,
2024, holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a
purchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be
purchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. The notes are bifurcated into
a debt component and an equity component since they may be settled in cash upon
conversion. The value of the debt component is based upon the estimated fair
value of a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature at the time
of issuance. The difference between the contractual principal on the debt and
the value allocated to the debt of $29,925,000 was recorded as an equity
component and represents the conversion feature of the instrument. The excess
of the contractual principal amount of the debt over its estimated fair value
is amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the
period used to estimate the fair value.  During the year ended December 31, 2015,
we received notice of conversion from holders of $215,965,000 of the senior
unsecured convertible notes, representing the remaining balance.  These
notes were converted into 366,211 shares of common stock and we recognized a
loss on extinguishment of $5,881,000, which is reflected on the consolidated
statement of comprehensive income.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following is a
summary of our secured debt principal activity for the periods presented
(dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Beginning balance

$

2,941,765

4.940%

$

3,010,711

5.095%

$

2,311,586

5.140%

Debt issued

228,685

2.776%

109,503

3.374%

89,208

4.982%

Debt assumed

1,007,482

3.334%

204,949

4.750%

1,290,858

4.159%

Debt extinguished

(506,326)

4.506%

(279,559)

4.824%

(614,375)

3.730%

Principal payments

(67,064)

4.801%

(62,280)

4.930%

(56,205)

5.248%

Foreign currency

(126,335)

3.834%

(41,559)

3.811%

(10,361)

4.013%

Ending balance

$

3,478,207

4.440%

$

2,941,765

4.940%

$

3,010,711

5.095%

Our debt agreements
contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain
agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net
worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens
and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2015, we were in
compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements.

11.
Derivative Instruments

We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising
from adverse changes in interest rates. We may elect to use financial
derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are
principally based on our policy to manage the general trend in interest rates
at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest
rates.  In addition, non-U.S. investments expose us to the potential losses
associated with adverse changes in foreign currency to U.S. Dollar exchange
rates.  We have elected to manage these risks through the use of forward
exchange contracts and issuing debt in the foreign currency.

I

nterest
Rate Swap Contracts and Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Cash
Flow Hedges

For instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the
effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a
component of other comprehensive income (“OCI”), and reclassified into earnings
in the same period, or periods, during which the hedged transaction affects
earnings.  Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness
or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are
recognized in earnings.  Approximately $2,942,000 of gains, which are included
in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”), are expected to be
reclassified into earnings in the next 12 months.

Foreign
Currency Hedges

For
instruments that are designated and qualify as net investment hedges, the
variability in the foreign currency to U.S. dollar of the instrument is
recorded as a cumulative translation adjustment component of OCI.  During
the year ended December 31, 2015, we settled certain net investment hedges
generating cash proceeds of $106,360,000.  The balance of the cumulative
translation adjustment will be reclassified to earnings when the hedged
investment is sold or substantially liquidated.

The following presents the notional amount
of derivatives and other financial instruments as of the dates indicated (in
thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

Derivatives designated as net investment hedges:

Denominated in Canadian Dollars

$

1,175,000

$

900,000

Denominated in Pounds Sterling

£

550,000

£

350,000

Financial instruments designated as net investment hedges:

Denominated in Canadian Dollars

$

250,000

$

250,000

Denominated in Pounds Sterling

£

1,050,000

£

1,050,000

Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges

Denominated in U.S. Dollars

$

57,000

$

57,000

Denominated in Canadian Dollars

$

72,000

$

58,000

Denominated in Pounds Sterling

£

60,000

£

40,000

Derivative instruments not designated:

Denominated in Canadian Dollars

$

47,000

$

12,000

The following presents
the impact of derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statements of
Comprehensive Income for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended

Location

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Gain (loss) on forward exchange contracts recognized in income

Gain (loss) on derivatives, net

$

-

$

1,495

$

(4,470)

Gain (loss) on forward exchange contracts recognized in income

Interest expense

14,474

-

-

Loss (gain) on option exercise

(1)

Gain (loss) on derivatives, net

(58,427)

-

-

Gain (loss) on forward exchange contracts and term loans
  designated as net investment hedge recognized in OCI

OCI

298,116

103,140

(28,244)

(1) In April 2011, we completed the acquisition of substantially
  all of the real estate assets of privately-owned Genesis Healthcare Corporation. 
  In conjunction with this transaction, we received the option to acquire an
  ownership interest in Genesis Healthcare.  In February 2015, Genesis
  Healthcare closed on a transaction to merge with Skilled Healthcare Group to
  become a publicly traded company which required us to record the value of the
  derivative asset due to the net settlement feature.

12. Commitments and Contingencies

At
December 31, 2015, we had nine outstanding letter of credit obligations totaling
$96,096,000 and expiring between 2016 and 2018.  At December 31, 2015, we had
outstanding construction in process of $258,968,000 for leased properties and
were committed to providing additional funds of approximately $525,588,000 to
complete construction. At December 31, 2015, we had contingent purchase
obligations totaling $24,088,000. These contingent purchase obligations relate
to unfunded capital improvement obligations and contingent obligations on
acquisitions. Rents due from the tenant are increased to reflect the additional
investment in the property.

We
evaluate our leases for operating versus capital lease treatment in accordance
with ASC Topic 840 “Leases.”  A lease is classified as a capital lease if
it provides for transfer of ownership of the leased asset at the end of the
lease term, contains a bargain purchase option, has a lease term greater than
75% of the economic life of the leased asset, or if the net present value of
the future minimum lease payments are in excess of 90% of the fair value of the
leased asset. Certain leases contain bargain purchase options and have been
classified as capital leases.  At December 31, 2015, we had operating lease
obligations of $990,027,000 relating to


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

certain ground
leases and Company office space. Regarding the ground leases, we have sublease
agreements with certain of our operators that require the operators to
reimburse us for our monthly operating lease obligations. At December 31, 2015,
aggregate future minimum rentals to be received under these noncancelable
subleases totaled $26,445,000.

At December 31, 2015, future minimum
lease payments due under operating and capital leases are as follows (in
thousands):

Operating
  Leases

Capital
  Leases

(1)


$

15,543

$

4,732


15,624

4,732


15,691

4,679


15,665

4,333


14,928

4,173

Thereafter

912,576

75,920

Totals

$

990,027

$

98,569

(1) Amounts above represent principal and interest obligations
  under capital lease arrangements.  Related assets with a gross value of
  $167,324,000 and accumulated depreciation of $20,555,000 are recorded in real
  property.

13.
Stockholders’ Equity

The following is a summary of our
stockholder’s equity capital accounts as of the dates indicated:

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value:

Authorized shares

50,000,000

50,000,000

Issued shares

25,875,000

25,875,000

Outstanding shares

25,875,000

25,875,000

Common Stock, $1.00 par value:

Authorized shares

700,000,000

700,000,000

Issued shares

355,594,373

329,487,615

Outstanding shares

354,777,670

328,790,066

Preferred Stock.

The following
is a summary of our preferred stock activity during the periods presented:

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Shares

Dividend
  Rate

Shares

Dividend
  Rate

Shares

Dividend
  Rate

Beginning balance

25,875,000

6.500%

26,108,236

6.496%

26,224,854

6.493%

Shares converted

-

0.000%

(233,236)

6.000%

(116,618)

6.000%

Ending balance

25,875,000

6.500%

25,875,000

6.500%

26,108,236

6.496%

During
the three months ended December 31, 2010, we issued 349,854 shares of 6.00%
Series H Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock in connection
with a business combination.  During the years ended December 31, 2013 and
2014, all shares were converted into common stock, leaving zero shares
outstanding.

During the three months ended March
31, 2011, we issued 14,375,000 of 6.50% Series I Cumulative Convertible
Perpetual Preferred Stock.  These shares have a liquidation value of $50.00 per
share.  Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears.  The preferred stock is not
redeemable by us.  The preferred shares are convertible, at the holder’s
option, into 0.8460 shares of common stock (equal to an initial conversion
price of approximately $59.10).

During the three months ended March
31, 2012, we issued 11,500,000 of 6.50% Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Stock.  Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears.  The preferred stock, which
has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00
per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption
date, on or after March 7, 2017.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Common
Stock

. The following is a summary of our common stock issuances during the periods
indicated (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):

Shares
  Issued

Average
  Price

Gross
  Proceeds

Net
  Proceeds

May 2013 public issuance

23,000,000

$

73.50

$

1,690,500

$

1,630,281

2013 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

3,429,928

62.78

215,346

215,346

2013 Option exercises

213,724

42.16

9,010

9,010

2013 Senior note conversions

988,007

-

-

2013 Preferred stock conversions

116,618

-

-

2013 Equity issued in acquisition of noncontrolling interest

1,108,917

-

-

2013 Totals

28,857,194

$

1,914,856

$

1,854,637

June 2014 public issuance

16,100,000

$

62.35

$

1,003,835

$

968,517

September 2014 public issuance

17,825,000

63.75

1,136,344

1,095,465

2014 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

4,122,941

62.35

257,055

257,055

2014 Option exercises

498,549

45.79

22,831

22,831

2014 Preferred stock conversions

233,236

-

-

2014 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures

188,147

-

-

2014 Senior note conversions

258,542

-

-

2014 Totals

39,226,415

$

2,420,065

$

2,343,868

February 2015 public issuance

19,550,000

$

75.50

$

1,476,025

$

1,423,935

2015 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

4,024,169

67.72

272,531

272,531

2015 Option exercises

249,054

47.35

11,793

11,793

2015 Equity Shelf Program issuances

696,070

69.23

48,186

47,463

2015 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures

137,837

-

-

2015 Senior note conversions

1,330,474

-

-

2015 Totals

25,987,604

$

1,808,535

$

1,755,722

During the twelve months ended
December 31, 2013, we acquired the remaining 20% noncontrolling interest in an
existing partnership for $91,000,000 which consisted of $23,247,000 of cash and
1,108,917 shares of common stock. In connection with the acquisition, we
incurred $2,732,000 of transaction costs, which we have included as a reduction
to additional paid in capital

.

Dividends

.

The increase in
dividends is primarily attributable to increases in our common shares
outstanding as described above.  Please refer to Notes 2 and 18 for information
related to federal income tax of dividends.  The following is a summary of our dividend
payments (in thousands, except per share amounts)

:

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Per
  Share

Amount

Per
  Share

Amount

Per
  Share

Amount

Common Stock

$

3.30000

$

1,144,727

$

3.18000

$

969,661

$

3.06000

$

839,939

Series H Preferred Stock

-

-

0.00794


2.85840


Series I Preferred Stock

3.25000

46,719

3.25000

46,719

3.25000

46,719

Series J Preferred Stock

1.62510

18,687

1.62510

18,688

1.62510

18,687

Totals

$

1,210,133

$

1,035,069

$

906,275

Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income

.

The following is
a summary of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) for the periods
presented (in thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Unrecognized
  gains (losses) related to:

Foreign
  Currency Translation

Equity
  Investments

Actuarial
  losses

Cash
  Flow Hedges

Total

Balance at December 31, 2014

$

(74,770)

$

-

$

(1,589)

$

(650)

$

(77,009)

Other comprehensive income before reclassification adjustments

(10,714)

-


(2,626)

(13,094)

Reclassification amount to net income

-

-

-

1,860

(1)

1,860

Net current-period other comprehensive income

(10,714)

-


(766)

(11,234)

Balance at December 31, 2015

$

(85,484)

$

-

$

(1,343)

$

(1,416)

$

(88,243)

Balance at December 31, 2013

$

(17,631)

$

(389)

$

(1,452)

$

(5,059)

$

(24,531)

Other comprehensive income before reclassification adjustments

(56,611)


(137)

2,610

(53,749)

Reclassification amount to net income

(528)

-

-

1,799

(1)

1,271

Net current-period other comprehensive income

(57,139)


(137)

4,409

(52,478)

Balance at December 31, 2014

$

(74,770)

$

-

$

(1,589)

$

(650)

$

(77,009)

(1) Please see Note 11 for additional information.

Other
Equity

.  Other equity consists of accumulated option compensation expense,
which represents the amount of amortized compensation costs related to stock
options awarded to employees and directors.

14. Stock Incentive Plans

Our
Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (“2005 Plan”) authorizes up
to 6,200,000 shares of common stock to be issued at the discretion of the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.  Our non-employee directors,
officers and key employees are eligible to participate in the 2005 Plan.  The
2005 Plan allows for the issuance of, among other things, stock options,
restricted stock, deferred stock units and dividend equivalent rights.  Vesting
periods for options, deferred stock units and restricted shares generally range
from three to five years.  Options expire ten years from the date of grant.

Under our long-term
incentive plan, certain restricted stock awards are performance based.  We will
grant a target number of restricted stock units, with the ultimate award
determined by the total shareholder return and operating performance metrics,
measured in each case over a measurement period of three years.

One third of the award will vest
immediately at the end of the three year performance period, one third will
vest a year after the performance period, and the remaining one third will vest
two years after the performance period.

Compensation expense for
these performance grants is measured based on the probability of achievement of
certain performance goals and is recognized over both the performance period
and vesting period.  For the portion of the grant for which the award is
determined by the operating performance metrics, the estimated compensation
cost was based on the grant date closing price and management’s estimate of
corporate achievement for the financial metrics.  If the estimated number of
performance based restricted stock to be earned changes, an adjustment will be
recorded to recognize the accumulated difference between the revised and
previous estimates.  For the portion of the grant determined by the total
shareholder return, management used a

Monte Carlo model

to assess the compensation
cost.  The expected term represents the period from the grant date to the end
of the three-year performance period.  The estimated compensation cost was
derived using the following assumptions: risk free rates over the life of the
plan ranging from 0.16% to 1.16%; estimated volatility figures ranging from
13.64% to 42.75% over the life of the plan using 50% historical volatility and
50% implied volatility; and dividend yield of 4.818%.

The following table
summarizes compensation expense recognized for the periods presented (in
thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Stock options

$


$


$

1,113

Restricted stock

30,146

31,163

19,064

$

30,844

$

32,075

$

20,177

Stock Options


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

We have not granted stock options since
the year ended December 31, 2012 but some remain outstanding.  As of December
31, 2015, there was $300,000 of total unrecognized compensation expense related
to unvested stock options that is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of one year.  Stock options outstanding at December 31,
2015 have an aggregate intrinsic value of $8,476,000.

Restricted Stock

The fair value of the restricted stock is
equal to the market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant
and is amortized over the vesting periods.

As of December 31, 2015, there was $24,894,000 of total
unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested restricted stock that is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of three years.  The
following table summarizes information about non-vested restricted stock
incentive awards as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015:

Restricted
  Stock

Number
  of

Weighted-Average

Shares

Grant
  Date

(000's)

Fair
  Value

Non-vested at December 31, 2014


$

56.92

Vested

(306)

61.09

Granted


66.93

Terminated

(59)

66.09

Non-vested at December 31, 2015


$

62.00

15. Earnings Per
Share

The
following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per
share (in thousands, except per share data):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Numerator for basic and diluted earnings

per share - net income attributable to

common stockholders

$

818,344

$

446,745

$

78,714

Denominator for basic earnings per

share: weighted-average shares

348,240

306,272

276,929

Effect of dilutive securities:

Employee stock options




Non-vested restricted shares




Redeemable shares


-

-

Convertible senior unsecured notes



1,149

Dilutive potential common shares

1,184

1,475

1,832

Denominator for diluted earnings per

share: adjusted-weighted average shares

349,424

307,747

278,761

Basic earnings per share

$

2.35

$

1.46

$

0.28

Diluted earnings per share

$

2.34

$

1.45

$

0.28

Stock options outstanding were anti-dilutive for the years
ended

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.  The Series H
Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock and the Series I
Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock were excluded from the
calculations as the effect of the conversions also were anti-dilutive.

16. Disclosure
about Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate
the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is
practicable to estimate that value.

Mortgage Loans and Other Real Estate Loans Receivable

— The fair value of mortgage loans and other real estate
loans receivable is generally estimated by using level two and level three
inputs such as discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current
rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit
ratings and for the same remaining maturities.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Cash and Cash Equivalents

— The carrying amount approximates fair value.

Available-for-sale Equity Investments

— Available-for-sale equity investments are recorded at
their fair value based on level one publicly available trading prices.

Borrowings Under Primary Unsecured Credit Facility

— The carrying amount of the primary unsecured credit
facility approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate
adjustable.

Senior Unsecured Notes

— The fair value of the senior unsecured notes payable was estimated based on
level one publicly available trading prices.

Secured Debt

— The
fair value of fixed rate secured debt is estimated using level two inputs by
discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which
similar loans would be made with similar credit ratings and for the same
remaining maturities.  The carrying amount of variable rate secured debt
approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable.

Interest Rate Swap Agreements

— Interest rate swap agreements are recorded in other
assets or other liabilities on the balance sheet at fair market value.  Fair
market value is estimated using level two inputs by utilizing pricing models that
consider forward yield curves and discount rates.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts

— Foreign currency forward contracts are recorded in other
assets or other liabilities on the balance sheet at fair market value.  Fair
market value is determined using level two inputs by estimating the future
value of the currency pair based on existing exchange rates, comprised of
current spot and traded forward points, and calculating a present value of the
net amount using a discount factor based on observable traded interest rates.

Redeemable OP Unitholder Interests

— The fair value of our redeemable operating partnership
(“OP”) unitholder interests are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value
using Level 2 inputs.  The fair value is measured using the closing price of
our common stock, as units may be redeemed at the election of the holder for
cash or, at our option, one share of our common stock per unit, subject to
adjustment in certain circumstances.

The
carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments are as
follows (in thousands):

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

Carrying

Fair

Carrying

Fair

Amount

Value

Amount

Value

Financial Assets:

Mortgage loans receivable

$

635,492

$

663,501

$

188,651

$

194,935

Other real estate loans receivable

184,000

185,693

191,518

195,375

Available-for-sale equity investments

22,779

22,779

-

-

Cash and cash equivalents

360,908

360,908

473,726

473,726

Foreign currency forward contracts

129,520

129,520

57,087

57,087

Financial Liabilities:

Borrowings under unsecured lines of credit arrangements

$

835,000

$

835,000

$

-

$

-

Senior unsecured notes

8,548,055

9,020,529

7,729,405

8,613,702

Secured debt

3,509,142

3,678,564

2,963,186

3,053,067

Foreign currency forward contracts

-

-

1,495

1,495

Redeemable OP unitholder interests

$

112,029

$

112,029

$

46,722

$

46,722

U.S.
GAAP provides authoritative guidance for measuring and disclosing fair value
measurements of assets and liabilities.  The guidance defines fair value as the
exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a
liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the
asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the
measurement date.  The guidance also establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires
an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of
unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.  The guidance describes three
levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Level 1 - Quoted
prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

Level 2 -
Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar
assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other
inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for
substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.  Please see Note 2
for additional information.

Level 3 -
Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that
are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.

Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis

The market approach is utilized to measure fair value for
our financial assets and liabilities reported at fair value on a recurring
basis.  The market approach uses prices and other relevant information
generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or
liabilities.

Fair
  Value Measurements as of December 31, 2015

Total

Level

Level

Level

Available-for-sale equity investments

(1)

$

22,779

$

22,779

$

-

$

-

Foreign currency forward contracts

(2)

129,520

-

129,520

-

Redeemable OP unitholder interests

112,029

-

112,029

-

Totals

$

241,549

$

-

$

241,549

$

-

(1) Unrealized gain or losses on equity investments are recorded
  in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at each measurement date.
  During 2015, we recognized an other than temporary impairment charge of
  $35,648,000 on the Genesis Healthcare stock investment which was recorded
  through other expense.  Also see Note 11 for details related to the gain on
  the derivative asset originally recognized.

(2) Please see Note 11 for additional information.

Items Measured at Fair Value
on a Nonrecurring Basis

In
addition to items that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, we also
have assets and liabilities in our balance sheet that are measured at fair
value on a nonrecurring basis.  As these assets and liabilities are not
measured at fair value on a recurring basis, they are not included in the
tables above. Assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests that are
measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include those acquired/assumed in
business combinations (see Note 3) and asset impairments (see Note 5 for
impairments of real property and Note 6 for impairments of loans receivable). We
have determined that the fair value measurements included in each of these
assets and liabilities rely primarily on Company-specific inputs and our assumptions
about the use of the assets and settlement of liabilities, as observable inputs
are not available. As such, we have determined that each of these fair value
measurements generally reside within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
We estimate the fair value of real estate and related intangibles using the
income approach and unobservable data such as net operating income and
estimated capitalization and discount rates.  We also consider local and
national industry market data including comparable sales, and commonly engage
an external real estate appraiser to assist us in our estimation of fair value. 
We estimate the fair value of assets held for sale based on current sales price
expectations or, in the absence of such price expectations, Level 3 inputs
described above.  We estimate the fair value of secured debt assumed in
business combinations using current interest rates at which similar borrowings
could be obtained on the transaction date.

17. Segment Reporting

We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate. We
evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our four operating
segments: triple-net, seniors housing operating, outpatient medical and life
science. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we changed the names of our
seniors housing triple-net segment to triple-net and our medical facilities
segment to outpatient medical.

Our triple-net properties
include long-term/post-acute care facilities, hospitals, assisted living
facilities, independent living/continuing care retirement communities, care
homes (United Kingdom), independent support living facilities (Canada), care
homes with nursing (United Kingdom) and combinations thereof.  Under the
triple-net segment, we invest in seniors housing and health care real estate
through acquisition and financing of primarily single tenant properties.  Properties
acquired are primarily leased under triple-net leases and we are not involved
in the management of the property.  Our seniors housing operating properties
include the seniors housing communities referenced above that are owned and/or
operated through RIDEA structures (see Notes 3 and 18).


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Our outpatient medical properties include outpatient medical
buildings and life science buildings which are aggregated into our outpatient
medical reportable segment. Our outpatient medical buildings are typically
leased to multiple tenants and generally require a certain level of property
management.  During the year ended December 31, 2015, we disposed of our life
science investments.

We evaluate performance
based upon NOI of each segment.  We define NOI as total revenues, including
tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses.  We believe NOI
provides investors relevant and useful information because it measures the operating
performance of our properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis. 
We use NOI to make decisions about resource allocations and to assess the
property level performance of our properties.

Non-segment revenue
consists mainly of interest income on certain non-real estate investments and
other income. Non-segment assets consist of corporate assets including cash,
deferred loan expenses and corporate offices and equipment among others.
Non-property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual
segments in determining NOI

.

The accounting policies
of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant
accounting policies (see Note 2). The results of operations for all
acquisitions described in Note 3 are included in our consolidated results of
operations from the acquisition dates and are components of the appropriate
segments.  There are no intersegment sales or transfers.

Summary information for the reportable
segments (which excludes unconsolidated entities) during the years ended
December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 is as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31, 2015:

Triple-net

Seniors
  Housing Operating

Outpatient
  Medical

Non-segment
  / Corporate

Total

Rental income

$

1,119,322

$

-

$

479,626

$

-

$

1,598,948

Resident fees and services

-

2,158,031

-

-

2,158,031

Interest income

74,108

4,180

5,853

-

84,141

Other income

6,871

6,060

4,684

1,091

18,706

Total revenues

1,200,301

2,168,271

490,163

1,091

3,859,826

Property operating expenses

-

1,467,009

155,248

-

1,622,257

Net operating income from continuing operations

1,200,301

701,262

334,915

1,091

2,237,569

Reconciling items:

Interest expense

30,288

147,832

28,822

285,227

492,169

(Loss) gain on derivatives, net

(58,427)

-

-

-

(58,427)

Depreciation and amortization

294,484

351,733

180,023

-

826,240

General and administrative

-

-

-

147,416

147,416

Transaction costs

53,254

54,966

2,706

-

110,926

(Loss) gain on extinguishment of debt, net

10,095

(195)

-

24,777

34,677

Impairment of assets

2,220

-

-

-

2,220

Other expenses

35,648

-

-

10,583

46,231

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and
  income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

832,739

146,926

123,364

(466,912)

636,117

Income tax expense

(4,244)



(3,438)

(6,451)

(Loss) income from unconsolidated entities

8,260

(32,672)

2,908

-

(21,504)

Income (loss) from continuing operations

836,755

115,240

126,517

(470,350)

608,162

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

86,261

-

194,126

-

280,387

Net income (loss)

$

923,016

$

115,240

$

320,643

$

(470,350)

$

888,549

Total assets

$

12,692,054

$

11,519,902

$

4,727,227

$

84,662

$

29,023,845


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year Ended December 31, 2014:

Triple-net

Seniors
  Housing Operating

Outpatient
  Medical

Non-segment
  / Corporate

Total

Rental income

$

992,638

$

-

$

413,129

$

-

$

1,405,767

Resident fees and services

-

1,892,237

-

-

1,892,237

Interest income

32,255

2,119

3,293

-

37,667

Other income

2,973

3,215

1,010


7,875

Total revenues

1,027,866

1,897,571

417,432


3,343,546

Property operating expenses


1,266,308

136,318

-

1,403,358

Net operating income from continuing operations

1,027,134

631,263

281,114


1,940,188

Reconciling items:

Interest expense

38,460

113,099

32,904

296,576

481,039

(Loss) gain on derivatives, net

(1,770)


-

-

(1,495)

Depreciation and amortization

273,296

418,199

152,635

-

844,130

General and administrative

-

-

-

142,943

142,943

Transaction costs

45,146

16,880

7,512

-

69,538

(Loss) gain on extinguishment of debt, net




8,672

9,558

Other expenses

8,825

1,437

-

-

10,262

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and
  income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

663,079

80,990

87,658

(447,514)

384,213

Income tax expense

6,141

(3,047)

(1,827)

-

1,267

(Loss) income from unconsolidated entities

5,423

(38,204)

5,355

-

(27,426)

Income (loss) from continuing operations

674,643

39,739

91,186

(447,514)

358,054

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

7,135

-

-

-

7,135

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

146,205

-


147,111

Net income (loss)

$

827,983

$

39,739

$

92,092

$

(447,514)

$

512,300

Total assets

$

10,918,946

$

9,519,833

$

4,464,857

$

59,287

$

24,962,923


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year Ended December 31, 2013

Triple-net

Seniors
  Housing Operating

Outpatient
  Medical

Non-segment
  / Corporate

Total

Rental income

$

866,138

$

-

$

361,451

$

-

$

1,227,589

Resident fees and services

-

1,616,290

-

-

1,616,290

Interest income

28,214


3,692

-

32,663

Other income

1,504


1,911


4,066

Total revenues

895,856

1,617,402

367,054


2,880,608

Property operating expenses

1,235

1,089,239

116,339

-

1,206,813

Net operating income from continuing operations

894,621

528,163

250,715


1,673,795

Reconciling items:

Interest expense

23,322

92,148

36,823

306,067

458,360

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

4,877

(407)

-

-

4,470

Depreciation and amortization

249,913

478,007

137,880

-

865,800

General and administrative

-

-

-

108,318

108,318

Transaction costs

24,426

107,066

1,909

-

133,401

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net


(3,372)

-

2,423

(909)

Provision for loan losses

2,110

-

-

-

2,110

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and
  income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

589,933

(145,279)

74,103

(416,512)

102,245

Income tax expense

(1,817)

(5,337)

(270)

(67)

(7,491)

(Loss) income from unconsolidated entities

5,035

(22,695)

9,473

-

(8,187)

Income from continuing operations

593,151

(173,311)

83,306

(416,579)

86,567

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

57,742

-

(6,029)

-

51,713

Net income (loss)

$

650,893

$

(173,311)

$

77,277

$

(416,579)

$

138,280

Our portfolio of properties and other investments are located in the United
States, the United Kingdom and Canada. Revenues and assets are attributed to
the country in which the property is physically located. The following is a
summary of geographic information for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

December
  30, 2013

Revenues:

Amount

%

Amount

%

Amount

%

United States

$

3,133,327

81.2%

$

2,801,474

83.8%

$

2,489,196

86.4%

International

726,499

18.8%

542,072

16.2%

391,412

13.6%

Total

$

3,859,826

100.0%

$

3,343,546

100.0%

$

2,880,608

100.0%

As
  of

December
  31, 2015

December
  31, 2014

Assets:

Amount

%

Amount

%

United States

$

25,995,793

89.6%

$

19,855,076

79.5%

International

3,028,052

10.4%

5,107,847

20.5%

Total

$

29,023,845

100.0%

$

24,962,923

100.0%


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

18.

Income Taxes and Distributions

We elected
to be taxed as a REIT commencing with our first taxable year.  To qualify as a REIT
for federal income tax purposes, at least 90% of taxable income (excluding 100%
of net capital gains) must be distributed to stockholders.  REITs that do not
distribute a certain amount of current year taxable income in the current year
are also subject to a 4% federal excise tax. The main differences between net
income for federal income tax purposes and financial statement purposes are the
recognition of straight-line rent for reporting purposes, basis differences in
acquisitions, recording of impairments, differing useful lives and depreciation
and amortization methods for real property and the provision for loan losses
for reporting purposes versus bad debt expense for tax purposes.

Cash
distributions paid to common stockholders, for federal income tax purposes, are
as follows

for the periods presented:

Year
  Ended December 31,




Per Share:

Ordinary income

$

1.9134

$

1.7861

$

1.4928

Qualified dividend

0.0529

-

-

Return of capital

0.0503

0.8368

1.4176

Long-term capital gains

0.9352

0.1638

0.0448

Unrecaptured section 1250 gains

0.3482

0.3933

0.1048

Totals

$

3.3000

$

3.1800

$

3.0600

Our consolidated
provision for income taxes is as follows for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Current

$

10,177

$

2,672

$

12,389

Deferred

(3,726)

(3,939)

(4,898)

Totals

$

6,451

$

(1,267)

$

7,491

REITs generally are
not subject to U.S. federal income taxes on that portion of REIT taxable income
or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders.  For the tax year ended
December 31, 2015, as a result of acquisitions located in Canada and the United
Kingdom, we were subject to foreign income taxes under the respective tax laws
of these jurisdictions.

The provision for
income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2015 primarily relates to state
taxes, foreign taxes, and taxes based on income generated by entities that are
structured as taxable REIT subsidiaries.  During 2014, we established certain
new wholly-owned direct and indirect subsidiaries in Luxembourg and Jersey and
transferred interests in certain foreign investments into this new holding
company structure.  The new structure includes a property holding company that
is tax resident in the United Kingdom.  No material adverse current tax
consequences in Luxembourg, Jersey or the United Kingdom resulted from the
creation of this new holding company structure and all of the subsidiary entities
in the structure are treated as disregarded entities of the Company for U.S.
federal income tax purposes.  The Company will reflect current and deferred tax
liabilities for any such withholding taxes incurred as a result of this holding
company structure in its consolidated financial statements.

For the tax years ended
December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the foreign tax provision/(benefit) amount
included in the consolidated provision for income taxes was $7,385,000,
($6,069,000) and ($484,000), respectively.

A reconciliation of
income tax expense, which is computed by applying the federal corporate tax
rate for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, to the income tax
provision/(benefit) is as follows for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended December 31,




Tax at statutory rate on earnings from continuing operations
  before unconsolidated entities, noncontrolling interests and income taxes

$

313,250

$

178,862

$

51,020

Increase  / (decrease) in valuation allowance

(1)

13,759

9,133

18,444

Tax at statutory rate on earnings not subject to federal income
  taxes

(319,832)

(189,070)

(88,762)

Foreign permanent depreciation

7,500

4,383

22,313

Other differences

(8,226)

(4,575)

4,476

Totals

$

6,451

$

(1,267)

$

7,491

(1) Excluding purchase price accounting.

Each TRS and foreign
entity subject to income taxes is a tax paying component for purposes of
classifying deferred tax assets and liabilities. The tax effects of taxable and
deductible temporary differences, as well as tax attributes, are summarized as
follows for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Investments and property, primarily differences in investment
  basis, depreciation and amortization, the basis of land assets and the
  treatment of interests and certain costs

$

(30,564)

$

(1,020)

$

(34,236)

Operating loss and interest deduction carryforwards

75,455

47,528

67,215

Expense accruals and other

6,259

26,191

19,309

Valuation allowance

(98,966)

(85,207)

(71,955)

Totals

$

(47,816)

$

(12,508)

$

(19,667)

We assess the available
positive and negative evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income
will be generated to use the existing deferred tax assets.  As required under
the provisions of ASC 740, we apply the concepts on an entity-by-entity,
jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis.  With respect to the analysis of certain
entities in multiple jurisdictions, a significant piece of objective negative
evidence evaluated was the cumulative loss incurred over the three-year period
ended December 31, 2015.  Such objective evidence limits the ability to
consider other subjective evidence such as our projections for future growth.

On the basis of the evaluations
performed as required by the codification, valuation allowances totaling
$98,966,000 were recorded on U.S. taxable REIT subsidiaries as well as entities
in other jurisdictions to limit the deferred tax assets to the amount that we
believe is more likely that not realizable.  However, the amount of the
deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted if (i) estimates of
future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced or increased
or (ii) objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no
longer present (and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such
as our projections for growth).  The valuation allowance rollforward is
summarized as follows for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Beginning balance

$

85,207

$

71,955

$

12,199

Additions:

Purchase price accounting

-

4,119

41,312

Expense

13,759

9,133

18,444

Ending balance

$

98,966

$

85,207

$

71,955

As a result of certain acquisitions, we are subject to
corporate level taxes for any related asset dispositions that may occur during
the five-year period immediately after such assets were owned by a C
corporation (“built-in gains tax”). The amount of income potentially subject to
this special corporate level tax is generally equal to the lesser of (a) the
excess of the fair value of the asset over its adjusted tax basis as of the
date it became a REIT asset, or (b) the actual amount of gain. Some but not all
gains recognized during this period of time could be offset by available net
operating losses and capital loss carryforwards.  During the year ended
December 31, 2015, we acquired certain additional assets with built-in gains as
of the date of acquisition that could be subject to the built-in


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

gains tax if disposed of prior to the expiration of the
applicable five-year period.  We have not recorded a deferred tax liability as
a result of the potential built-in gains tax based on our intentions with
respect to such properties and available tax planning strategies.

Under the provisions
of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 (“RIDEA”),
for taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008, the REIT may lease “qualified
health care properties” on an arm’s-length basis to a TRS if the property is
operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an “eligible
independent contractor.” Generally, the rent received from the TRS will meet
the related party rent exception and will be treated as “rents from real
property.” A “qualified health care property” includes real property and any
personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a
hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate care facility,
qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility which extends
medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients.  We have entered into
various joint ventures that were structured under RIDEA.  Resident level rents
and related operating expenses for these facilities are reported in the
consolidated financial statements and are subject to federal and state income
taxes as the operations of such facilities are included in a TRS.  Certain net
operating loss carryforwards could be utilized to offset taxable income in
future years

.

Given the applicable
statute of limitations, we generally are subject to audit by the Internal Revenue
Service (“IRS”) for the year ended December 31, 2012 and subsequent years. The
statute of limitations may vary in the states in which we own properties or
conduct business.  We do not expect to be subject to audit by state taxing
authorities for any year prior to the year ended December 31, 2009. We are also
subject to audit by the Canada Revenue Agency and provincial authorities
generally for periods subsequent to May 2012 related to entities acquired or
formed in connection with acquisitions, and by HM Revenue & Customs for
periods subsequent to August 2012 related to entities acquired or formed in
connection with acquisitions.

At December 31, 2015,
we had a net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforward related to the REIT of
$443,197,000.  Due to our uncertainty regarding the realization of certain
deferred tax assets, we have not recorded a deferred tax asset related to NOLs
generated by the REIT.  These amounts can be used to offset future taxable
income (and/or taxable income for prior years if an audit determines that tax
is owed), if any. The REIT will be entitled to utilize NOLs and tax credit
carryforwards only to the extent that REIT taxable income exceeds our deduction
for dividends paid.  The NOL carryforwards will expire through 2035.

At December 31, 2015, and 2014, we had a net operating
loss carryforward related to Canadian entities of $78,680,000, and $32,085,000,
respectively.

These Canadian losses have a 20-year
carryforward period.

At December 31, 2015 and
2014, we had a net operating loss carryforward related to United Kingdom
entities of $179,598,000 and $177,079,000, respectively.  These United Kingdom
losses do not have a finite carryforward period.

19. Retirement Arrangements

We
have a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”), a non-qualified defined
benefit pension plan, which provides one former executive officer with supplemental
deferred retirement benefits. The SERP provides an opportunity for the
participant to receive retirement benefits that cannot be paid under our
tax-qualified plans because of the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Benefits are based on compensation
and length of service and the SERP is unfunded. Benefit payments are expected
to total $5,654,000 during the next five fiscal years. We use a December 31
measurement date for the SERP. The accrued liability on our balance sheet for
the SERP was $5,474,000 at December 31, 2015 ($6,882,000 at December 31,
2014).

On
April 13, 2014, George L. Chapman, formerly the Chairman, Chief Executive
Officer and President of the Company, informed the Board of Directors that he
wished to retire from the Company, effective immediately.  As a result of Mr.
Chapman’s retirement, general and administrative expenses for the year ended
December 31, 2014 included charges of $19,688,000 related to: (i) the
acceleration of $9,223,000 of deferred compensation for restricted stock; and
(ii) consulting, retirement payments and other costs of $10,465,000.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

20.
Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)

The following
is a summary of our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years
ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 (in thousands, except per share data).
The sum of individual quarterly amounts may not agree to the annual amounts
included in the consolidated statements of income due to rounding.

Year
  Ended December 31, 2015

1st
  Quarter

2nd
  Quarter

3rd
  Quarter

(1)

4th
  Quarter

(2)

Revenues

$

894,177

$

957,169

$

978,997

$

1,029,484

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

190,799

312,573

182,043

132,929

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share:

Basic

$

0.57

$

0.89

$

0.52

$

0.38

Diluted

0.56

0.89

0.52

0.37

Year
  Ended December 31, 2014

1st
  Quarter

2nd
  Quarter

3rd
  Quarter

4th
  Quarter

Revenues

$

801,807

$

826,446

$

847,523

$

867,770

Net income attributable to common stockholders

50,022

71,829

136,255

188,639

Net income attributable to common stockholders per share:

Basic

$

0.17

$

0.24

$

0.44

$

0.58

Diluted

0.17

0.24

0.44

0.57

(1) The decrease in net income and amounts per share are
  primarily attributable to gains on sales of real estate of $190,111,000 for
  the second quarter as compared to gains of $2,046,000 for the third quarter.

(2) The decrease in net income and amounts per share are
  primarily attributable to the other than temporary impairment charge of
  $35,648,000 recognized on the available-for-sale investment and increased
  transaction costs incurred due to fourth quarter acquisitions.


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and

Financial
Disclosure

Not
applicable.

Item 9A.

Controls and
Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

An
evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of
our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the
period covered by this report.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). The Company’s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. The Company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

Management
has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2015 based on the criteria established by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013
framework) in a report entitled Internal Control — Integrated Framework.

The
scope of management’s assessment as of December 31, 2015 did not include an
assessment of the internal control over financial reporting for certain
acquisitions because the business combinations occurred during the year ended
December 31, 2015. The acquired businesses represent 4% of total assets at
December 31, 2015 and less than 1% of revenues and net operating income for the
year then ended. The scope of management’s assessment on internal control over
financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2016 will include the
aforementioned acquired operations.

Based
on this assessment, using the criteria above, management concluded that the
Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting was effective as
of December 31, 2015.

The
independent registered public accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP, as
auditors of the Company’s consolidated financial statements, has issued an
attestation report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Changes in Internal Control over
Financial Reporting

No
change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)
occurred during the fourth quarter of the one-year period covered by this
report that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
our internal control over financial reporting.


Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The Board of Directors
and Shareholders of Welltower Inc.

We have audited
Welltower Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(the COSO criteria, 2013 framework). Welltower Inc.’s management is responsible
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for
its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control
over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As indicated in the
accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting,
management’s assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of
certain acquisitions, which are included in the 2015 consolidated financial
statements of Welltower Inc. and aggregate to 4% of total assets at December
31, 2015 and less than 1% of revenues and net operating income for the year
then ended. Our audit of the internal control over financial reporting of
Welltower Inc. also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over
financial reporting of the aforementioned acquisitions.

In our opinion,
Welltower Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on the COSO criteria.

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of
Welltower Inc. as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated
statements of comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2015 of Welltower Inc. and our
report dated February 18, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/

Ernst &
Young LLP

Toledo

, Ohio

February 18, 2016

Item 9B.

Other Information

None.


PART III

Item 10.

Directors,
Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the headings “Election of Directors,” “Corporate Governance,”
“Executive Officers,” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and
Certain Beneficial Owners — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) prior to April 29,
2016.

We
have adopted a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics that applies to our
directors, officers and employees. The code is posted on the Internet at
www.welltower.com/#investors/governance. Any amendment to, or waivers from, the
code that relate to any officer or director of the Company will be promptly
disclosed on the Internet at www.welltower.com.

In
addition, the Board has adopted charters for the Audit, Compensation and
Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees. These charters are posted on the
Internet at www.welltower.com/#investors/governance.

The
information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual
reference only.

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation

The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the headings “Executive Compensation” and “Director
Compensation” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the
Commission prior to April 29, 2016.

Item 12.

Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

and Related Stockholder Matters

The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the headings “Security Ownership of Directors and Management
and Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in
our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior
to April 29, 2016.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions and Director

Independence

The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the headings “Corporate Governance — Independence and
Meetings” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain
Beneficial Owners — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our
definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to
April 29, 2016.

Item 14.

Principal
Accounting Fees and Services

The information
required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the information
under the heading “Ratification of the Appointment of the Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm” in our definitive proxy statement, which
will be filed with the Commission prior to April 29, 2016.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a) 1.

Our Consolidated Financial Statements
are included in Part II,

Item 8:

Report

of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated
  Balance Sheets – December 31, 2015 and 2014


Consolidated
  Statements of  Comprehensive Income — Years ended  December 31, 2015, 2014
  and  2013


Consolidated
  Statements of  Equity — Years ended  December 31, 2015, 2014 and  2013


Consolidated
  Statements of  Cash Flows — Years ended  December 31, 2015, 2014 and  2013


Notes
  to Consolidated Financial Statements


2.

The following Financial Statement
Schedules are included in

Item 15(c):

III – Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

IV – Mortgage Loans on Real Estate

The financial statement schedule required by Item15(a) (Schedule
II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts) is included in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

3.

Exhibit Index:

The information required by this item is set forth on the Exhibit
Index that follows the Financial Statement Schedules to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

(b)

Exhibits:

The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index are either filed with
this Form 10-K or incorporated by reference in accordance with
Rule 12b-32 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

(c)

Financial
Statement Schedules:

Financial
statement schedules are included beginning on page 112.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: 
February 18, 2016

WELLTOWER
INC.

By:

/s/  T

homas J. DeRosa

Thomas
J. DeRosa,

Chief
Executive Officer and Director

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on February
18, 2016 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities indicated.

/s/

Jeffrey H. Donahue **

/s/

Sergio D. Rivera **

Jeffrey H. Donahue, Chairman
  of the Board

Sergio
  D. Rivera, Director

/s/

Kenneth J. Bacon **

/s/

R. Scott Trumbull **

Kenneth
  J. Bacon, Director

R.
  Scott Trumbull, Director

/s/

Fred S. Klipsch **

/s/

Thomas J. DeRosa **

Fred
  S. Klipsch, Director

Thomas J. DeRosa, Chief
  Executive Officer and Director

(Principal
  Executive Officer)

/s/

Geoffrey G. Meyers

**

/s/

Scott A. Estes **

Geoffrey
  G. Meyers, Director

Scott A.
  Estes, Executive Vice President and Chief

Financial
  Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

/s/

Timothy J. Naughton

**

/s/

Paul D. Nungester, Jr.**

Timothy
  J. Naughton, Director

Paul D.
  Nungester, Jr., Senior Vice President and

Controller
  (Principal Accounting Officer)

/s/

Sharon M. Oster **

**By:            /s/

Thomas J. DeRosa

Sharon
  M. Oster, Director

Thomas
  J. DeRosa, Attorney-in-Fact

/s/

Judith C. Pelham **

Judith
  C. Pelham, Director


Welltower Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and
  Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2015

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount at Which
  Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Building &
  Improvements

Cost Capitalized
  Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Building &
  Improvements

Accumulated Depreciation

(1)

Year Acquired

Year Built

Address

Triple-net:

Abilene, TX

$

-

$


$

20,987

$


$


$

21,027

$




6565 Central Park Boulevard

Abilene, TX

-


8,187



8,987




1250 East N 10th Street

Aboite Twp, IN

-

1,770

19,930

1,601

1,770

21,531

2,918



611 W County Line Rd South

Agawam, MA

-


16,112

2,134


18,246

6,765



1200 Suffield St.

Agawam, MA

-

1,230

13,618


1,230

14,211

1,971



61 Cooper Street

Agawam, MA

-


15,304



15,596

2,084



55 Cooper Street

Agawam, MA

-


10,661



10,697

1,509



464 Main Street

Agawam, MA

-


10,562



10,607

1,496



65 Cooper Street

Akron, OH

-


8,219



8,710

2,608



721 Hickory St.

Akron, OH

-


7,535



7,764

2,072



209 Merriman Road

Albertville, AL

1,986


6,203



6,477

1,234



151 Woodham Dr.

Alexandria, IN

-


6,491

-


6,491




1912 South Park Avenue

Alliance, OH

-


7,723



7,830

2,223



1785 Freshley Ave.

Ames, IA

-


8,870

-


8,870

1,357



1325 Coconino Rd.

Anderson, SC

-


6,290



6,709

2,786



311 Simpson Rd.

Andover, MA

-

1,310

12,647


1,310

12,674

1,843



89 Morton Street

Annapolis, MD

-

1,010

24,825


1,010

24,976

3,221



35 Milkshake Lane

Ansted, WV

-


14,113



14,221

1,802



106 Tyree Street,   P.O. Drawer 400

Apple Valley, CA

10,445


16,639



16,801

3,340



11825 Apple Valley Rd.

Asheboro, NC

-


5,032



5,197

1,774



514 Vision Dr.

Asheville, NC

-


3,489

-


3,489

1,617



4 Walden Ridge Dr.

Asheville, NC

-


1,955



2,306




308 Overlook Rd.

Aspen Hill, MD

-

-

9,008

1,180

-

10,188

1,384



3227 Bel Pre Road

Atchison, KS

-


5,610

-


5,610

-



1301 N 4th St,

Atlanta, GA

7,429

2,058

14,914

1,143

2,080

16,035

10,896



1460 S Johnson Ferry Rd.

Aurora, OH

-

1,760

14,148


1,760

14,254

2,090



505 S. Chillicothe Rd

Aurora, CO

-

2,600

5,906

7,915

2,600

13,821

4,638



14101 E. Evans Ave.

Aurora, CO

-

2,440

28,172

-

2,440

28,172

7,909



14211 E. Evans Ave.

Austin, TX

18,411


9,520

1,216


10,731

4,775



12429 Scofield Farms Dr.

Aventura, FL

-

4,540

33,986


4,540

34,424

3,073



2777 NE 183rd Street

Avon, IN

-

1,830

14,470

-

1,830

14,470

2,311



182 S Country RD. 550E

Avon, IN

-


19,444

-


19,444




10307 E. CR 100 N

Avon Lake, OH

-


10,421

5,822


16,243

1,725



345 Lear Rd.

Ayer, MA

-

-

22,074


-

22,077

2,862



400 Groton Road

Baldwin City, KS

-


4,810

-


4,810

-



321 Crimson Ave

Baltic, OH

-


8,709



8,898

2,482



130 Buena Vista St.

Baltimore, MD

-

1,350

14,884


1,350

15,204

2,059



115 East Melrose Avenue

Baltimore, MD

-


5,039



5,186




6000 Bellona Avenue

Bartlesville, OK

-


1,380

-


1,380




5420 S.E. Adams Blvd.

Beachwood, OH

-

1,260

23,478

-

1,260

23,478

8,952



3800 Park East Drive

Beattyville, KY

-


6,900



7,560

2,158



249 E. Main St.

Bedford, NH

-

2,250

28,831


2,250

28,836

3,718



25 Ridgewood Road

Bellingham, WA

8,429

1,500

19,861


1,507

20,175

3,900



4415 Columbine Dr.

Benbrook, TX

-

1,550

13,553


1,550

14,322

1,687



4242 Bryant Irvin Road

Bend, OR

-

1,210

9,181

-

1,210

9,181




1801 NE Lotus Drive

Bethel Park, PA

-

1,700

16,007

-

1,700

16,007

2,962



5785 Baptist Road

Beverly Hills, CA

9,404

6,000

13,385

-

6,000

13,385




220 N Clark Drive

Bexleyheath, UKI

-

4,483

12,917

-

4,483

12,917




35 West Street

Birmingham, UKG

-

1,969

17,754

-

1,969

17,754




Clinton Street, Winson Green

Birmingham, UKG

-

1,902

22,820

-

1,902

22,820




Braymoor Road, Tile Cross

Birmingham, UKG

-

1,747

10,824

-

1,747

10,824




Clinton Street, Winson Green

Birmingham, UKG

-

1,416

12,054

-

1,416

12,054




122 Tile Cross Road, Garretts Green

Bloomington, IN

-


17,423

-


17,423




363 S. Fieldstone Boulevard

Bluefield, VA

-


12,463



12,495

1,658



Westwood Medical Park

Boardman, OH

-

1,200

12,800

-

1,200

12,800

3,016



8049 South Ave.

Boca Raton, FL

-

1,440

31,048


1,440

31,941

2,802



1080 Northwest 15th Street

Boonville, IN

-


5,510

-


5,510

2,078



1325 N. Rockport Rd.

Bowling Green, KY

-

3,800

26,700


3,800

26,849

5,080



1300 Campbell Lane

Bradenton, FL

-


3,298

-


3,298

1,761



6101 Pointe W. Blvd.

Bradenton, FL

-


9,953

-


9,953




2800 60th Avenue West

Braintree, MA

-


7,157

1,290


8,447

8,236



1102 Washington St.

Braintree, UKH

-

-

15,893

-

-

15,893




Meadow Park Tortoiseshell Way

Brandon, MS

-

1,220

10,241

-

1,220

10,241

1,450



140 Castlewoods Blvd

Brecksville, OH

-


19,353

-


19,353




8757 Brecksville Road

Bremerton, WA

-


2,210



2,354




3231 Pine Road

Bremerton, WA

-


10,420



11,370

1,637



3201 Pine Road NE

Bremerton, WA

-


2,899



2,912




3210 Rickey Road

Brick, NJ

-

1,290

25,247


1,290

25,776

2,957



458 Jack Martin Blvd.

Brick, NJ

-

1,170

17,372

1,285

1,183

18,645

2,474



515 Jack Martin Blvd

Brick, NJ

-


17,125

5,312


22,436

2,328



1594 Route 88

Brick, NJ

-

3,160

8,496

-

3,160

8,496




475 Jack Martin Boulevard

Bridgewater, NJ

-

1,850

3,050

-

1,850

3,050

1,367



875 Route 202/206 North

Bridgewater, NJ

-

1,730

48,201

1,123

1,749

49,304

6,343



2005 Route 22 West

Bridgewater, NJ

-

1,800

31,810


1,800

32,281

3,668



680 US-202/206 North

Broadview Heights, OH

-


12,400

2,393


14,793

5,059



2801 E. Royalton Rd.

Brookfield, WI

-

1,300

12,830

-

1,300

12,830




1185 Davidson Road

Brooklyn Park, MD

-

1,290

16,329


1,290

16,358

2,193



613 Hammonds Lane

Brooks, AB

1,996


4,951

-


4,951




951 Cassils Road West

Brookville, IN

-


13,461

-


13,461




11049 State Road 101

Buckhurst Hill, UKH

-

13,861

58,858

-

13,861

58,858

1,234



High Road

Burleson, TX

-


13,985



14,235

1,774



300 Huguley Boulevard

Burleson, TX

-

3,150

10,437

-

3,150

10,437




621 Old Highway 1187

Burlington, NC

-


4,297



5,004

1,678



3619 S. Mebane St.

Burlington, NC

-


5,467

-


5,467

1,883



3615 S. Mebane St.

Burlington, NC

-


11,257

-


11,257




2766 Grand Oaks Blvd

Burlington, NJ

-

1,700

12,554


1,700

13,020

1,970



115 Sunset Road

Burlington, NJ

-

1,170

19,205


1,170

19,372

2,464



2305 Rancocas Road

Burlington, WA

-

3,860

31,722

-

3,860

31,722




400 Gilkey Road

Burnaby, BC

8,119

7,623

13,844

-

7,623

13,844




7195 Canada Way

Byrdstown, TN

-

-

2,414

1,534

1,265

2,683

1,917



129 Hillcrest Dr.

Calgary, AB

16,917

2,341

42,768

-

2,341

42,768

1,306



1729-90th Avenue SW

Calgary, AB

28,055

4,569

70,199

-

4,569

70,199

2,123



500 Midpark Way SE

Cambridge, MD

-


15,843



16,050

2,091



525 Glenburn Avenue

Camrose, AB

13,824

1,019

20,678

-

1,019

20,678




6821-50 Avenue

Canton, MA

-


8,201



8,464

5,133



One Meadowbrook Way

Canton, NC

-


5,357



6,057




27 North Main Street

Canton, OH

-


2,098

-


2,098




1119 Perry Dr., N.W.

Cape Coral, FL

-


3,281

-


3,281

1,240



911 Santa Barbara Blvd.

Cape Coral, FL

8,894


18,868

-


18,868

1,768



831 Santa Barbara Boulevard

Cape May Court House, NJ

-

1,440

17,002

1,155

1,440

18,157




144 Magnolia Drive

Carmel, IN

-

1,700

19,491

-

1,700

19,491




12315 Pennsylvania Street

Carrollton, TX

-

4,280

31,444


4,280

32,178

1,668



2105 North Josey Lane

Carson City, NV

-


8,238



8,488




1111 W. College Parkway

Cary, NC

-

1,500

4,350


1,500

5,336

2,312



111 MacArthur

Castleton, IN

-


15,137

-


15,137




8405 Clearvista Lake

Catonsville, MD

-

1,330

15,003


1,330

15,552

2,088



16 Fusting Avenue

Cedar Grove, NJ

-

1,830

10,939


1,830

10,949

1,538



25 East Lindsley Road

Cedar Grove, NJ

-

2,850

27,737


2,850

27,757

3,667



536 Ridge Road

Centreville, MD

(2)

-


14,602



14,843

1,982



205 Armstrong Avenue

Chapel Hill, NC

-


2,646



3,429

1,268



100 Lanark Rd.

Chapel Hill, NC

-


7,512



8,418




405 Smith Level Road

Charles Town, WV

-


22,834



22,863

2,867



219 Prospect Ave

Charleston, WV

-


17,575



17,873

2,249



1000 Association Drive, North Gate Business Park

Charleston, WV

-


5,430



5,444




699 South Park Road

Chatham, VA

-


14,039

-


14,039




100 Rorer Street

Chelmsford, MA

-

1,040

10,951

1,499

1,040

12,450

3,712



4 Technology Dr.

Chester, VA

-

1,320

18,127

-

1,320

18,127




12001 Iron Bridge Road

Chicago, IL

-

1,800

19,256

-

1,800

19,256

1,916



6700 South Keating Avenue

Chicago, IL

-

2,900

17,016

-

2,900

17,016

1,717



4239 North Oak Park Avenue

Chickasha, OK

-


1,395

-


1,395




801 Country Club Rd.

Cinnaminson, NJ

-


6,663



6,812

1,026



1700 Wynwood Drive

Citrus Heights, CA

14,506

2,300

31,876


2,300

32,465

6,427



7418 Stock Ranch Rd.

Claremore, OK

-


1,427

6,130


7,557

1,037



1605 N. Hwy. 88

Clarks Summit, PA

-


11,179



11,194

1,563



100 Edella Road

Clarks Summit, PA

-


6,529



6,583




150 Edella Road

Clarksville, TN

-


2,292

-


2,292

1,050



2183 Memorial Dr.

Clayton, NC

-


15,733

-


15,733




84 Johnson Estate Road

Cleburne, TX

-


5,369

-


5,369

1,234



402 S Colonial Drive

Clevedon, UKK

-

3,392

20,233

-

3,392

20,233




18/19 Elton Road

Cleveland, TN

-


5,000



5,122

2,068



2750 Executive Park N.W.

Clinton, MD

-

2,330

20,876


2,330

21,467

2,170



7520 Surratts Road

Cloquet, MN

-


4,660



4,780




705 Horizon Circle

Cobham, UKJ

-

11,723

29,871

-

11,723

29,871

1,888



Redhill Road

Colchester, CT

-


4,860



5,355




59 Harrington  Court

Colorado Springs, CO

-

4,280

62,168

-

4,280

62,168




1605 Elm Creek View

Colts Neck, NJ

-


14,733

1,147

1,016

15,644

2,127



3 Meridian Circle

Columbia, TN

-


2,295

-


2,295

1,058



5011 Trotwood Ave.

Columbia, TN

-


3,787

-


3,787

1,719



1410 Trotwood Ave.

Columbia, SC

-

2,120

4,860

5,709

2,120

10,569

3,826



731 Polo Rd.

Columbia Heights, MN

-


14,175



14,338

1,601



3807 Hart Boulevard

Columbus, IN

-


3,190

-


3,190




2564 Foxpointe Dr.

Columbus, OH

-


5,170

8,255

1,070

12,885

3,637



1425 Yorkland Rd.

Columbus, OH

-

1,010

5,022

-

1,010

5,022

1,565



1850 Crown Park Ct.

Columbus, OH

-

1,010

4,931

13,620

1,860

17,701

4,946



5700 Karl Rd.

Columbus, IN

-


6,710

-


6,710

2,377



2011 Chapa Dr.

Concord, NC

-


3,921



3,976

1,516



2452 Rock Hill Church Rd.

Concord, NH

-


18,423



18,869

2,378



20 Maitland Street

Concord, NH

-

1,760

43,179


1,760

43,747

5,518



239 Pleasant Street

Concord, NH

-


3,041



3,381




227 Pleasant Street

Congleton, UKD

-

2,433

6,120

-

2,433

6,120




Rood Hill

Conroe, TX

-


7,771

-


7,771

1,278



903 Longmire Road

Conyers, GA

-

2,740

19,302


2,740

19,529

1,725



1504 Renaissance Drive

Coppell, TX

-

1,550

8,386

-

1,550

8,386




1530 East Sandy Lake Road

Cortland, NY

-


18,041



18,099

1,518



839 Bennie Road

Coventry, UKG

-

2,345

16,530

-

2,345

16,530




Banner Lane, Tile Hill

Crawfordsville, IN

-


17,239

1,426


18,665




517 Concord Road

Crown Point, IN

-


20,044

-


20,044




1555 South Main Street

Dallas, OR

-


9,427

-


9,427




664 SE Jefferson

Daniels, WV

-


17,320



17,370

2,194



1631 Ritter Drive

Danville, VA

-


3,954



4,676

1,634



149 Executive Ct.

Danville, VA

-


8,436

-


8,436




508 Rison Street

Daphne, AL

-

2,880

8,670


2,880

8,797




27440 County Road 13

Dedham, MA

-

1,360

9,830

-

1,360

9,830

3,964



10 CareMatrix Dr.

Defuniak Springs, FL

-

1,350

10,250

-

1,350

10,250

2,751



785 S. 2nd St.

Denton, TX

-

1,760

8,305

-

1,760

8,305

1,025



2125 Brinker Rd

Derby, UKF

-

-

-

12,600

2,728

9,872




Rykneld Road

Dover, DE

-


7,717



7,755

1,075



1203 Walker Road

Dover, DE

-


22,266



22,356

2,886



1080 Silver Lake Blvd.

Drayton Valley, AB

-


10,198

-


10,198




3902-47 Street

Dresher, PA

-

2,060

40,236


2,083

41,130

5,259



1405 N. Limekiln Pike

Dundalk, MD

(2)

-

1,770

32,047


1,770

32,831

4,198



7232 German Hill Road

Durham, NC

-

1,476

10,659

2,196

1,476

12,855

10,052



4434 Ben Franklin Blvd.

Dyer, IN

-

1,800

25,061

-

1,800

25,061




1532 Calumet Avenue

Eagan, MN

17,000

2,260

31,643

-

2,260

31,643




3810 Alder Avenue

East Brunswick, NJ

-

1,380

34,229


1,380

34,848

3,925



606 Cranbury Rd.

East Norriton, PA

-

1,200

28,129

1,084

1,262

29,151

3,776



2101 New Hope St

Eastbourne, UKJ

-

4,866

29,210

-

4,866

29,210

1,013



Carew Road

Easton, MD

-


24,539

-


24,539

3,266



610 Dutchman's Lane

Eatontown, NJ

-

1,190

23,358


1,190

23,426

3,088



3 Industrial Way East

Eden, NC

-


4,877

-


4,877

1,701



314 W. Kings Hwy.

Edmond, OK

-


8,388

-


8,388




15401 North Pennsylvania Avenue

Edmond, OK

-

1,810

14,849


1,810

14,961




1225 Lakeshore Drive

El Paso, TX

-

1,420

12,394


1,420

12,678




435 S Mesa Hills Drive

Elizabeth City, NC

-


2,760

2,011


4,771

1,928



400 Hastings Lane

Elizabethton, TN

-


4,604



4,940

2,012



1200 Spruce Lane

Emeryville, CA

-

2,560

57,491

-

2,560

57,491

2,206



1440 40th Street

Englewood, NJ

-


4,514



4,531




333 Grand Avenue

Englishtown, NJ

-


12,520



13,431

1,849



49 Lasatta Ave

Erin, TN

-


8,060



8,194

3,196



242 Rocky Hollow Rd.

Eugene, OR

-


5,822

-


5,822




4550 West Amazon Drive

Eureka, KS

-


3,950

-


3,950

-



1820 E River St

Everett, WA

-

1,400

5,476

-

1,400

5,476

2,428



2015 Lake Heights Dr.

Fair Lawn, NJ

-

2,420

24,504


2,420

24,948

3,253



12-15 Saddle River Road

Fairfield, CA

-

1,460

14,040

1,541

1,460

15,581

5,530



3350 Cherry Hills St.

Fairhope, AL

-


9,119

-


9,119




50 Spring Run Road

Fall River, MA

-


5,829

4,856


10,685

4,708



1748 Highland Ave.

Fall River, MA

-


34,715



34,923

4,498



4901 North Main Street

Fanwood, NJ

-

2,850

55,175


2,850

55,993

6,238



295 South Ave.

Faribault, MN

-


11,539

-


11,539




828 1st Street NE

Farnborough, UKJ

-

2,433

6,857

-

2,433

6,857




Bruntile Close, Reading Road

Fayetteville, PA

-

2,150

32,951

-

2,150

32,951




6375 Chambersburg Road

Fayetteville, GA

-


12,665



12,974

1,116



1967 Highway 54 West

Fayetteville, NY

-


3,962



4,462

1,652



5125 Highbridge St.

Findlay, OH

-


1,800

-


1,800




725 Fox Run Rd.

Fishers, IN

-

1,500

14,500

-

1,500

14,500

2,315



9745 Olympia Dr.

Florence, NJ

-


2,978

-


2,978

1,120



901 Broad St.

Florence, AL

6,985


13,049



13,217

2,542



3275 County Road 47

Flourtown, PA

-

1,800

14,830


1,800

15,033

2,011



350 Haws Lane

Flower Mound, TX

-

1,800

8,414

-

1,800

8,414




4141 Long Prairie Road

Follansbee, WV

-


27,670



27,719

3,541



840 Lee Road

Folsom, CA

-

-

33,600

-

1,582

32,018

2,129



330 Montrose Drive

Forest City, NC

-


4,497

-


4,497

1,586



493 Piney Ridge Rd.

Fort Ashby, WV

-


19,566



19,689

2,464



Diane Drive, Box 686

Fort Collins, CO

-

3,680

58,608

-

3,680

58,608




4750 Pleasant Oak Drive

Fort Wayne, IN

-


8,232

-


8,232

1,926



2626 Fairfield Ave.

Fort Worth, TX

-


13,615

5,086


18,701

2,417



425 Alabama Ave.

Franconia, NH

-


11,320



11,390

1,491



93 Main Street

Franklin, NH

-


15,210



15,257

1,978



7 Baldwin Street

Frederick, MD

-

-

-

18,942

2,550

16,392




347 Ballenger Center Drive

Fredericksburg, VA

-

1,000

20,000

1,200

1,000

21,200

5,796



3500 Meekins Dr.

Fredericksburg, VA

-


28,611



28,646

3,632



11 Dairy Lane

Fredericksburg, VA

-

3,700

22,016


3,700

22,075

1,856



12100 Chancellors Village

Fredericksburg, VA

-

1,130

23,202

-

1,130

23,202




140 Brimley Drive

Fredonia, KS

-



-



-



2111 E Washington St

Fremont, CA

18,860

3,400

25,300

3,203

3,456

28,447

7,578



2860 Country Dr.

Fresno, CA

-

2,500

35,800


2,500

35,918

6,803



7173 North Sharon Avenue

Gambrills, MD

-

2,500

16,726

-

2,500

16,726




1219 Waugh Chapel Road

Gardner, MA

-


10,210



10,237

1,402



32 Hospital Hill Road

Gardner, KS

-


2,800

-


2,800

-



869 Juniper Terrace

Gardnerville, NV

12,189

1,143

10,831

1,075

1,164

11,885

8,346



1565-A Virginia Ranch Rd.

Gastonia, NC

-


6,129

-


6,129

2,100



1680 S. New Hope Rd.

Gastonia, NC

-


3,096



3,118

1,141



1717 Union Rd.

Gastonia, NC

-


5,029



5,149

1,780



1750 Robinwood Rd.

Georgetown, TX

-


2,100

-


2,100

1,027



2600 University Dr., E.

Gettysburg, PA

-


8,913



9,003

1,295



867 York Road

Gig Harbor, WA

5,120

1,560

15,947


1,583

16,177

3,043



3213 45th St. Court NW

Glastonbury, CT

-

1,950

9,532


2,360

10,031

1,420



72 Salmon Brook Drive

Glen Mills, PA

-


9,110



9,275

1,276



549 Baltimore Pike

Glenside, PA

-

1,940

16,867


1,940

17,020

2,265



850 Paper Mill Road

Graceville, FL

-


13,000

-


13,000

3,393



1083 Sanders Ave.

Grafton, WV

-


18,824



18,861

2,374



8 Rose Street

Granbury, TX

-

2,040

30,670


2,040

30,819

3,824



100 Watermark Boulevard

Granbury, TX

-

2,550

2,940


2,550

3,340




916 East Highway 377

Grand Ledge, MI

-

1,150

16,286

5,119

1,150

21,405

2,568



4775 Village Dr

Granger, IN

-

1,670

21,280

2,401

1,670

23,681

3,154



6330 North Fir Rd

Grapevine, TX

-

-

-

19,692

2,220

17,472




4545 Merlot Drive

Grass Valley, CA

4,268


7,667



7,837




415 Sierra College Drive

Greendale, WI

-

2,060

35,383


2,060

35,905

3,566



5700 Mockingbird Lane

Greeneville, TN

-


8,290



8,797

2,882



106 Holt Ct.

Greenfield, WI

-

-

15,204

-


14,314




5017 South 110th Street

Greensboro, NC

-


2,970



3,524

1,262



5809 Old Oak Ridge Rd.

Greensboro, NC

-


5,507

1,013


6,520

2,316



4400 Lawndale Dr.

Greensboro, NC

-


6,634



7,206




5918 Netfield Road

Greenville, SC

-


4,750

-


4,750

1,572



23 Southpointe Dr.

Greenville, NC

-


4,393



4,561

1,559



2715 Dickinson Ave.

Greenwood, IN

-

1,550

22,770


1,550

22,851

3,138



2339 South SR 135

Groton, CT

-

2,430

19,941


2,430

20,836

2,912



1145 Poquonnock Road

Haddonfield, NJ

-

-

-

16,883


16,363




132 Warwick Road

Hamburg, PA

-


10,543



10,734

1,595



125 Holly Road

Hamilton, NJ

-


4,469

-


4,469

1,667



1645 Whitehorse-Mercerville Rd.

Hanford, UKG

-

1,652

11,748

-

1,652

11,748




Bankhouse Road

Hanover, IN

-


4,430

-


4,430

1,499



188 Thornton Rd

Harleysville, PA

-


11,355

-


11,355

1,999



695 Main Street

Harriman, TN

-


8,060



8,218

3,374



240 Hannah Rd.

Harrow, UKI

-

8,848

9,880

-

8,848

9,880




177 Preston Hill

Hatboro, PA

-

-

28,112

1,746

-

29,858

3,706



3485 Davisville Road

Hatfield, UKH

-

3,495

8,997

-

3,495

8,997




St Albans Road East

Haverford, PA

-

1,880

33,993


1,883

34,826

4,449



731 Old Buck Lane

Hemet, CA

-


3,405

-


3,405




25818 Columbia St.

Hemet, CA

-

1,890

28,606


1,899

29,582

8,109



1001 N. Lyon Ave

Hemet, CA

-


9,630



10,551

1,705



1001 N. Lyon Ave

Herne Bay, UKJ

-

2,271

29,109

-

2,271

29,109

2,196



165 Reculver Road

Hiawatha, KS

-


4,210

-


4,210

-



400 Kansas Ave

Hickory, NC

-





1,219




2530 16th St. N.E.

High Point, NC

-


4,443



5,236

1,838



1568 Skeet Club Rd.

High Point, NC

-


2,185



2,595




1564 Skeet Club Rd.

High Point, NC

-


3,395



3,423

1,211



201 W. Hartley Dr.

High Point, NC

-


4,143

-


4,143

1,452



1560 Skeet Club Rd.

High River, AB

-


34,317

-


34,317




660 7th Street

Highland Park, IL

-

2,820

15,832


2,820

16,021

1,293



1651 Richfield Avenue

Highlands Ranch, CO

-


3,721

4,983


8,704

1,666



9160 S. University Blvd.

Hilltop, WV

-


25,355



25,370

3,247



Saddle Shop Road

Hinckley, UKF

-

2,581

5,013

-

2,581

5,013




Tudor Road

Hockessin, DE

-

1,120

6,308


1,120

7,197




100 Saint Claire Drive

Hollywood, FL

-

1,240

13,806


1,240

14,242

1,257



3880 South Circle Drive

Holton, KS

-


7,460

-


7,460

-



410 Juniper Dr

Homestead, FL

-

2,750

11,750

-

2,750

11,750

3,137



1990 S. Canal Dr.

Houston, TX

-

5,090

9,471

-

5,090

9,471

1,882



15015 Cypress Woods Medical Drive

Howell, NJ

9,470

1,066

21,577


1,069

21,844

2,900



100 Meridian Place

Huntington, WV

-


32,261



32,387

4,155



101 13th Street

Huron, OH

-


6,088

1,452


7,540

2,028



1920 Cleveland Rd. W.

Hurricane, WV

-


21,454



22,258

2,862



590 N Poplar Fork Road

Hutchinson, KS

-


10,590



10,784

3,173



2416 Brentwood

Indianapolis, IN

-


6,287

22,565


28,852

9,194



8616 W. Tenth St.

Indianapolis, IN

-


2,473

12,123


14,596

4,552



8616 W.Tenth St.

Indianapolis, IN

-


14,688

-


14,688




1635 N Arlington Avenue

Indianapolis, IN

-


18,781

-


18,781




5404 Georgetown Road

Jackson, NJ

-

6,500

26,405

2,193

6,500

28,598

2,346



2 Kathleen Drive

Jacksonville Beach, FL

-

1,210

26,207


1,210

26,679

2,282



1700 The Greens Way

Jamestown, TN

-

-

6,707


-

7,215

5,289



208 N. Duncan St.

Jefferson, OH

-


9,120

-


9,120

2,664



222 Beech St.

Jupiter, FL

-

3,100

47,453


3,100

48,016

3,950



110 Mangrove Bay Way

Kansas City, KS

-


20,116

-


20,116




8900 Parallel Parkway

Keene, NH

-


9,639



9,923

1,259



677 Court Street

Kenner, LA

-

1,100

10,036


1,100

10,364

8,040



1600 Joe Yenni Blvd

Kennesaw, GA

-


10,848



11,236

1,006



5235 Stilesboro Road

Kennett Square, PA

-

1,050

22,946


1,083

23,151

2,993



301 Victoria Gardens Dr.

Kennewick, WA

-

1,820

27,991


1,834

28,692

6,421



2802 W 35th Ave

Kent, WA

-


20,318

10,470


30,788

6,082



24121 116th Avenue SE

Kirkland, WA

-

1,880

4,315


1,880

4,998

1,554



6505 Lakeview Dr.

Kirkstall, UKE

-

2,912

11,253

-

2,912

11,253




29 Broad Lane

Kokomo, IN

-


16,044

-


16,044




2200 S. Dixon Rd

Laconia, NH

-


14,434



14,930

1,963



175 Blueberry Lane

Lafayette, CO

-

1,420

20,192

-

1,420

20,192




329 Exempla Circle

Lafayette, IN

-


16,833

-


16,833




2402 South Street

Lafayette, LA

-

1,928

10,483


1,928

10,509

3,650



204 Energy Parkway

Lake Barrington, IL

-

3,400

66,179


3,400

66,225

5,448



22320 Classic Court

Lake Zurich, IL

-

1,470

9,830

-

1,470

9,830

1,245



550 America Court

Lakeway, TX

-

5,142

18,574

3,029

5,142

21,603

1,214



2000 Medical Dr

Lakewood, CO

-

2,160

28,091


2,160

28,140

1,350



7395 West Eastman Place

Lakewood Ranch, FL

-


6,714

1,988


8,702




8230 Nature's Way

Lakewood Ranch, FL

6,981

1,000

22,388

-

1,000

22,388

2,059



8220 Natures Way

Lancaster, CA

9,742


15,295



15,907

3,391



43051 15th St. West

Lancaster, PA

-


7,623



7,702

1,142



336 South West End Ave

Lancaster, NH

-


15,804



15,964

2,059



91 Country Village Road

Lancaster, NH

-









63 Country Village Road

Langhorne, PA

-

1,350

24,881


1,350

24,998

3,316



262 Toll Gate Road

LaPlata, MD

(2)

-


19,068



19,534

2,563



One Magnolia Drive

Las Vegas, NV

-


23,420

-


23,420

2,715



2500 North Tenaya Way

Lawrence, KS

3,497


8,716

-


8,716




3220 Peterson Road

Lebanon, NH

-


20,138



20,202

2,612



24 Old Etna Road

Lecanto, FL

-


6,900

-


6,900

2,191



2341 W. Norvell Bryant Hwy.

Lee, MA

-


18,135



19,061

7,035



600 & 620 Laurel St.

Leeds, UKE

-

2,359

15,824

-

2,359

15,824




100 Grove Lane

Leicester, UKF

-

3,657

29,177

-

3,657

29,177

2,309



307 London Road

Lenoir, NC

-


3,748



4,389

1,533



1145 Powell Rd., N.E.

Leominster, MA

-


6,201



6,226




44 Keystone Drive

Lethbridge, AB

1,487

1,214

2,750

-

1,214

2,750




785 Columbia Boulevard West

Lethbridge, AB

3,052


6,855

-


6,855




1730 10th Avenue

Lewisburg, WV

-


3,699



3,769




331 Holt Lane

Lexana, KS

-


1,770

-


1,770

-



8710 Caenen Lake Rd

Lexington, KY

-

1,980

21,258

-

1,980

21,258




2531 Old Rosebud Road

Lexington, NC

-


3,900

1,015


4,915

1,780



161 Young Dr.

Libertyville, IL

-

6,500

40,024

-

6,500

40,024

5,165



901 Florsheim Dr

Lichfield, UKG

-

1,652

36,246

-

1,652

36,246




Wissage Road

Lillington, NC

-


17,579

-


17,579




54 Red Mulberry Way

Lillington, NC

-


16,451

-


16,451




2041 NC-210 N

Lincoln, NE

-


13,807

-


13,807

2,059



7208 Van Dorn St.

Linwood, NJ

-


21,984



22,745

3,041



432 Central Ave

Linwood, NJ

-

2,310

14,912

-

2,310

14,912




201 New Road

Litchfield, CT

-

1,240

17,908

10,893

1,250

28,792

2,504



19 Constitution Way

Little Neck, NY

-

3,350

38,461

1,176

3,357

39,630

5,138



55-15 Little Neck Pkwy.

Livermore, CA

9,837

4,100

24,996

-

4,100

24,996




35 Fenton Street

Loganville, GA

-

1,430

22,912


1,430

23,469

2,174



690 Tommy Lee Fuller Drive

London, UKI

-

20,792

182,448

-

20,792

182,448

3,824



53 Parkside

London, UKI

-

4,719

32,497

-

4,719

32,497




49 Parkside

London, UKI

-

6,046

13,355

-

6,046

13,355




17-19 View Road

Longview, TX

-


5,520

-


5,520

1,278



311 E Hawkins Pkwy

Longwood, FL

-

1,260

6,445

-

1,260

6,445




425 South Ronald Reagan Boulevard

Louisburg, KS

-


4,320

-


4,320

-



202 Rogers St

Louisville, KY

-


10,010

2,768


12,778

3,822



4604 Lowe Rd

Louisville, KY

-


7,135



7,298

3,007



2529 Six Mile Lane

Louisville, KY

-


4,675



4,808

2,010



1120 Cristland Rd.

Lowell, MA

-

1,070

13,481


1,070

13,584

1,887



841 Merrimack Street

Lowell, MA

-


3,378



3,408




30 Princeton Blvd

Loxley, UKE

-

1,637

18,727

-

1,637

18,727

1,405



Loxley Road

Lutherville, MD

-

1,100

19,786

1,579

1,100

21,365

2,706



515 Brightfield Road

Lynchburg, VA

-


16,114

-


16,114




189 Monica Blvd

Macungie, PA

-


29,033



29,049

3,700



1718 Spring Creek Road

Mahwah, NJ

-

-

-

28,844

1,605

27,239




15 Edison Road

Manahawkin, NJ

-

1,020

20,361


1,020

20,483

2,694



1361 Route 72 West

Manalapan, NJ

-


22,624



22,881

2,592



445 Route 9 South

Manassas, VA

-


7,446



7,976

2,513



8341 Barrett Dr.

Manchester, NH

-

1,080

3,059


1,080

3,640




191 Hackett Hill Road

Mankato, MN

12,839

1,460

32,104

-

1,460

32,104




100 Dublin Road

Mansfield, TX

-


5,251

-


5,251

1,229



2281 Country Club Dr

Manteca, CA

5,987

1,300

12,125

1,566

1,312

13,679

4,039



430 N. Union Rd.

Marianna, FL

-


8,910

-


8,910

2,319



2600 Forest Glenn Tr.

Marietta, GA

-

1,270

10,519


1,270

10,966




3039 Sandy Plains Road

Marietta, PA

-

1,050

13,633

-

1,050

13,633




2760 Maytown Road

Marion, IN

-


12,750

1,136


13,886




614 W. 14th Street

Marion, IN

-


9,190



10,014




505 N. Bradner Avenue

Marlborough, UKK

-

3,200

8,155

-

3,200

8,155




The Common

Marlinton, WV

-


8,430



8,441

1,135



Stillwell Road, Route 1

Marlton, NJ

-

-

38,300

2,894

-

41,194

7,404



92 Brick Road

Marmet, WV

-


26,483

-


26,483

3,322



1 Sutphin Drive

Martinsburg, WV

-


17,180



17,230

2,178



2720 Charles Town Road

Martinsville, VA

-


-

-


-

-



Rolling Hills Rd. & US Hwy. 58

Marysville, WA

4,436


4,780



5,683

1,738



9802 48th Dr. N.E.

Matawan, NJ

-

1,830

20,618


1,830

20,625

2,360



625 State Highway 34

Matthews, NC

-


4,738

-


4,738

1,699



2404 Plantation Center Dr.

McHenry, IL

-

1,576

-

-

1,576

-

-



5200 Block of Bull Valley Road

McKinney, TX

-

1,570

7,389

-

1,570

7,389

1,237



2701 Alma Rd.

McMinnville, OR

-


7,984

-


7,984




3121 NE Cumulus Avenue

McMurray, PA

-

1,440

15,805

3,601

1,440

19,406

1,998



240 Cedar Hill Dr

Mechanicsburg, PA

-

1,350

16,650

-

1,350

16,650

1,976



4950 Wilson Lane

Medicine Hat, AB

2,440


5,566

-


5,566




65 Valleyview Drive SW

Melbourne, FL

-

7,070

48,257

13,444

7,070

61,701

9,939



7300 Watersong Lane

Melville, NY

-

4,280

73,283

3,798

4,292

77,069

9,676



70 Pinelawn Rd

Memphis, TN

-


5,963

-


5,963

2,327



1150 Dovecrest Rd.

Mendham, NJ

-

1,240

27,169


1,240

27,802

3,514



84 Cold Hill Road

Menomonee Falls, WI

-

1,020

6,984

1,652

1,020

8,636

1,602



W128 N6900 Northfield Drive

Mercerville, NJ

-


9,929



10,045

1,411



2240 White Horse- Merceville Road

Meriden, CT

-

1,300

1,472


1,300

1,477




845 Paddock Ave

Meridian, ID

-

3,600

20,802


3,600

21,053

7,193



2825 E. Blue Horizon Dr.

Merrillville, IN

-


11,699



11,853

2,457



9509 Georgia St.

Mesa, AZ

5,913


9,087



9,888

4,076



7231 E. Broadway

Middleburg Heights, OH

-


7,780

-


7,780

2,366



15435 Bagley Rd.

Middleton, WI

-


4,006



4,606

1,575



6701 Stonefield  Rd.

Middletown, RI

-

1,480

19,703

-

1,480

19,703

2,629



333 Green End Avenue

Midland, MI

-


11,025

5,522


16,547

1,681



2325 Rockwell Dr

Milford, DE

-


7,816



7,855

1,087



500 South DuPont Boulevard

Milford, DE

-


19,216



19,274

2,552



700 Marvel Road

Mill Creek, WA

27,255

10,150

60,274


10,179

61,179

14,264



14905 Bothell-Everett Hwy

Millville, NJ

-


29,944



30,048

3,891



54 Sharp Street

Milton Keynes, UKJ

-

2,182

22,296

-

2,182

22,296




Tunbridge Grove, Kents Hill

Milwaukie, OR

-


6,782

-


6,782




5770 SE Kellogg Creek Drive

Mishawaka, IN

-


16,114

-


16,114




60257 Bodnar Blvd

Missoula, MT

-


7,490



7,867

2,151



3620 American Way

Monclova, OH

-

1,750

11,868

-

1,750

11,868

1,034



6935 Monclova Road

Monmouth Junction, NJ

-


6,209



6,266




2 Deer Park Drive

Monroe, NC

-


3,681



4,329

1,549



918 Fitzgerald St.

Monroe, NC

-


4,799



5,656

1,911



919 Fitzgerald St.

Monroe, NC

-


4,021



4,135

1,478



1316 Patterson Ave.

Monroe, WA

-

2,560

34,460


2,584

34,955

6,720



15465 179th Ave. SE

Monroe Township, NJ

-

3,250

27,771

-

3,250

27,771

-



319 Forsgate Drive

Monroe Twp, NJ

-

1,160

13,193


1,160

13,268

1,873



292 Applegarth Road

Monteagle, TN

-


3,318

-


3,318

1,401



218 Second St., N.E.

Monterey, TN

-

-

4,195


-

4,605

3,324



410 W. Crawford Ave.

Montville, NJ

-

3,500

31,002


3,500

31,577

3,635



165 Changebridge Rd.

Moorestown, NJ

-

2,060

51,628

1,134

2,065

52,757

6,768



1205 N. Church St

Moorestown, NJ

-

6,400

23,875

-

6,400

23,875

1,119



250 Marter Avenue

Morehead City, NC

-


3,104

1,648


4,752

1,926



107 Bryan St.

Morgantown, KY

-


3,705



4,320

1,534



206 S. Warren St.

Morgantown, WV

-


15,633



15,653

1,664



161 Bakers Ridge Road

Morton Grove, IL

-

1,900

19,374


1,900

19,533

2,146



5520 N. Lincoln Ave.

Mount Pleasant, SC

-

-

17,200

-

4,052

13,149

1,304



1200 Hospital Drive

Mount Vernon, WA

-

3,440

21,842

1,623

3,440

23,465




1810 E. Division Street

Mountain City, TN

-


5,896



6,556

4,484



919 Medical Park Dr.

Moyock, NC

-


13,381

-


13,381




141 Moyock Landing Drive

Mt. Vernon, WA

-


2,200



2,356




3807 East College Way

Murphy, TX

-

1,950

19,182

-

1,950

19,182




304 West FM 544

Nacogdoches, TX

-


5,754

-


5,754

1,325



5902 North St

Naperville, IL

-

3,470

29,547

-

3,470

29,547

3,886



504 North River Road

Naples, FL

-

1,716

17,306

2,075

1,738

19,358

16,781



1710 S.W. Health Pkwy.

Naples, FL

-


5,450

-


5,450

1,866



2900 12th St. N.

Nashville, TN

-

4,910

29,590

-

4,910

29,590

5,944



15 Burton Hills Boulevard

Nashville, TN

-

4,500

12,287

-

4,500

12,287

1,008



832 Wedgewood Ave

Naugatuck, CT

-

1,200

15,826


1,200

16,002

2,127



4 Hazel Avenue

Needham, MA

-

1,610

13,715


1,610

14,081

5,791



100 West St.

Neodesha, KS

-



-



-



400 Fir St

New Braunfels, TX

-

1,200

19,800

9,397

2,729

27,668

2,633



2294 East Common Street

New Haven, IN

-


3,524

-


3,524

1,434



1201 Daly Dr.

New Moston, UKD

-

1,770

5,233

-

1,770

5,233




90a Broadway

Newark, DE

-


21,220

1,488


22,708

6,364



200 E. Village Rd.

Newcastle Under Lyme, UKG

-

1,327

6,760

-

1,327

6,760




Hempstalls Lane

Newcastle-under-Lyme, UKG

-

1,345

6,618

-

1,345

6,618




Silverdale Road

Newport, VT

-


3,867

-


3,867




35 Bel-Aire Drive

Norman, OK

-


1,484

-


1,484




1701 Alameda Dr.

Norman, OK

-

1,480

33,330

-

1,480

33,330

3,001



800 Canadian Trails Drive

Norristown, PA

-

1,200

19,488

1,762

1,200

21,250

2,682



1700 Pine Street

North Andover, MA

-


21,817



21,870

2,842



140 Prescott Street

North Andover, MA

-

1,070

17,341

1,303

1,070

18,644

2,452



1801 Turnpike Street

North Augusta, SC

-


2,558

-


2,558

1,169



105 North Hills Dr.

North Bend, OR

-

1,290

7,361

-

1,290

7,361




2290 Inland Drive

North Cape May, NJ

-


22,266



22,302

2,882



700 Townbank Road

North Cape May, NJ

-


13,556

-


13,556




3809 Bayshore Road

North Cape May, NJ

-



-



-



610 Town Bank Road

Northampton, UKF

-

6,193

20,736

-

6,193

20,736

1,373



Cliftonville Road

Northampton, UKF

-

2,407

7,479

-

2,407

7,479




Cliftonville Road

Nuneaton, UKG

-

3,974

10,737

-

3,974

10,737




132 Coventry Road

Nuthall, UKF

-

1,946

7,486

-

1,946

7,486




172A Nottingham Road

Nuthall, UKF

-

2,986

12,474

-

2,986

12,474




172 Nottingham Road

Oak Hill, WV

-


24,506

-


24,506

3,068



422 23rd Street

Oak Hill, WV

-



-






438 23rd Street

Oakland, CA

-

4,760

16,143

-

4,760

16,143




468 Perkins Street

Ocala, FL

-

1,340

10,564

-

1,340

10,564

1,870



2650 SE 18TH Avenue

Ogden, UT

-


6,700



7,399

2,135



1340 N. Washington Blv.

Oklahoma City, OK

-


7,513

-


7,513

1,554



13200 S. May Ave

Oklahoma City, OK

-


7,017

-


7,017

1,380



11320 N. Council Road

Olds, AB

-


7,688

-


7,688




5600 Sunrise Crescent

Olds, AB

-


13,142

-


13,142




3300 57th Avenue

Olympia, WA

6,397


16,689



16,984

3,266



616 Lilly Rd. NE

Omaha, NE

-


10,230

-


10,230

1,550



11909 Miracle Hills Dr.

Omaha, NE

-


8,864

-


8,864

1,399



5728 South 108th St.

Ona, WV

-


15,998

-


15,998




100 Weatherholt Drive

Oneonta, NY

-


5,020

-


5,020

1,061



1846 County Highway 48

Orem, UT

-

2,150

24,107

-

2,150

24,107




250 East Center Street

Ormond Beach, FL

-

-

2,739


-

3,191

1,941



103 N. Clyde Morris Blvd.

Orwigsburg, PA

-


20,632



20,766

2,715



1000 Orwigsburg Manor Drive

Osage City, KS

-


1,700

-


1,700

-



1403 Laing St

Osawatomie, KS

-


2,970

-


2,970

-



1520 Parker Ave

Ottawa, KS

-


6,590

-


6,590

-



2250 S Elm St

Overland Park, KS

-

3,730

27,076


3,730

27,416

4,641



12000 Lamar Avenue

Overland Park, KS

-

4,500

29,105

7,295

4,500

36,400

5,210



6101 W 119th St

Overland Park, KS

-


2,840

-


2,840

-



14430 Metcalf Ave

Owasso, OK

-


1,380

-


1,380




12807 E. 86th Place N.

Owensboro, KY

-


6,760



7,369

2,160



1614 W. Parrish Ave.

Owensboro, KY

-


13,275

-


13,275

4,076



1205 Leitchfield Rd.

Owenton, KY

-


2,400

-


2,400




905 Hwy. 127 N.

Oxford, MI

11,038

1,430

15,791

-

1,430

15,791

2,266



701 Market St

Palestine, TX

-


4,320

1,300


5,620

1,357



1625 W. Spring St.

Palm Coast, FL

-


10,957

-


10,957

1,804



50 Town Ct.

Paola, KS

-


5,610

-


5,610

-



601 N. East Street

Paris, TX

-


5,452

-


5,452

3,331



750 N Collegiate Dr

Parkersburg, WV

-


21,288



21,931

2,775



723 Summers Street

Parkville, MD

-

1,350

16,071


1,350

16,345

2,192



8710 Emge Road

Parkville, MD

-


11,186



11,189

1,549



8720 Emge Road

Parkville, MD

-

1,100

11,768

-

1,100

11,768

1,612



1801 Wentworth Road

Paso Robles, CA

-

1,770

8,630


1,770

9,323

3,370



1919 Creston Rd.

Passaic, NJ

-

2,750

9,982

-

2,750

9,982




56 Hamilton Avenue

Pella, IA

-


6,716



6,805




2602 Fifield Road

Pennington, NJ

-

1,380

27,620


1,465

28,287

3,162



143 West Franklin Avenue

Pennsauken, NJ

-


10,780



10,959

1,645



5101 North Park Drive

Petoskey, MI

-


14,452

-


14,452

1,946



965 Hager Dr

Pewaukee, WI

-

4,700

20,669

-

4,700

20,669

6,100



2400 Golf Rd.

Philadelphia, PA

-

2,700

25,709


2,700

26,041

3,432



184 Bethlehem Pike

Philadelphia, PA

-

2,930

10,433

3,373

2,930

13,806

1,899



1526 Lombard Street

Philadelphia, PA

-


11,239



11,304

1,446



8015 Lawndale Avenue

Philadelphia, PA

-

1,810

16,898


1,810

16,931

2,467



650 Edison Avenue

Phillipsburg, NJ

-


21,175



21,368

2,843



290 Red School Lane

Phillipsburg, NJ

-


8,114



8,151

1,084



843 Wilbur Avenue

Pigeon Forge, TN

-


4,180



4,297

1,833



415 Cole Dr.

Pinehurst, NC

-


2,690



3,174

1,176



17 Regional Dr.

Piqua, OH

-


1,885

-


1,885




1744 W. High St.

Pittsburgh, PA

-

1,750

8,572


1,750

8,687

2,636



100 Knoedler Rd.

Plainview, NY

-

3,990

11,969


3,990

12,529

1,581



150 Sunnyside Blvd

Plattsmouth, NE

-


5,650

-


5,650




1913 E. Highway 34

Plymouth, MI

-

1,490

19,990


1,490

20,119

2,742



14707 Northville Rd

Ponoka, AB

3,647


10,831

-


10,831




4004 40th Street Close

Port St. Joe, FL

-


2,055

-


2,055

1,159



220 9th St.

Port St. Lucie, FL

-

8,700

47,230

6,090

8,700

53,320

7,859



10685 SW Stony Creek Way

Post Falls, ID

-

2,700

14,217

2,181

2,700

16,398

3,233



460 N. Garden Plaza Ct.

Pottsville, PA

-


26,964



27,166

3,589



1000 Schuylkill Manor Road

Princeton, NJ

-

1,730

30,888

1,397

1,810

32,205

3,662



155 Raymond Road

Prior Lake, MN

14,250

1,870

29,849

-

1,870

29,849




4685 Park Nicollet Avenue

Puyallup, WA

11,136

1,150

20,776


1,156

21,216

4,180



123 Fourth Ave. NW

Quakertown, PA

-

1,040

25,389


1,040

25,461

3,291



1020 South Main Street

Raleigh, NC

24,091

3,530

59,589

-

3,530

59,589

5,110



5301 Creedmoor Road

Raleigh, NC

-

2,580

16,837

-

2,580

16,837

1,561



7900 Creedmoor Road

Reading, PA

-


19,906



20,008

2,627



5501 Perkiomen Ave

Red Bank, NJ

-

1,050

21,275


1,050

21,665

2,445



One Hartford Dr.

Rehoboth Beach, DE

-


24,248

8,562


32,796

3,420



36101 Seaside Blvd

Reidsville, NC

-


3,830



4,687

1,715



2931 Vance St.

Reno, NV

-

1,060

11,440


1,060

12,045

3,541



5165 Summit Ridge Road

Richardson, TX

-

1,800

16,562

-

1,800

16,562




1350 East Lookout Drive

Richmond, VA

-

-

12,000

-


11,750




2220 Edward Holland Drive

Ridgeland, MS

-


7,675



8,102

2,575



410 Orchard Park

Ridgely, TN

-


5,700



5,797

2,308



117 N. Main St.

Ridgewood, NJ

-

1,350

16,170


1,350

16,650

2,139



330 Franklin Turnpike

Rochdale, MA

-

-

7,100

-


6,410




111 Huntoon Memorial Highway

Rockledge, FL

-


4,117

-


4,117

1,953



1775 Huntington Lane

Rockville, MD

-

-

16,398


-

16,408

1,716



9701 Medical Center Drive

Rockville, CT

-

1,500

4,835


1,500

4,911




1253 Hartford Turnpike

Rockville Centre, NY

-

4,290

20,310


4,290

20,879

2,481



260 Maple Ave

Rockwall, TX

-

-

-

19,693

2,220

17,473




720 E Ralph Hall Parkway

Rockwood, TN

-


7,116



7,857

3,091



5580 Roane State Hwy.

Rocky Hill, CT

-

1,090

6,710

1,500

1,090

8,210

2,491



60 Cold Spring Rd.

Rogersville, TN

-


3,278

-


3,278

1,388



109 Hwy. 70 N.

Rohnert Park, CA

13,265

6,500

18,700

2,116

6,546

20,769

5,712



4855 Snyder Lane

Romeoville, IL

-

1,895

-

-

1,895

-

-



Grand Haven Circle

Roseburg, OR

-

1,200

4,891

-

1,200

4,891




1901 NW Hughwood Drive

Roseville, MN

-

2,140

24,679

-

2,140

24,679




2750 North Victoria Street

Roswell, GA

7,628

1,107

9,627

1,086

1,114

10,706

7,536



655 Mansell Rd.

Rugeley, UKG

-

2,271

12,266

-

2,271

12,266




Horse Fair

Ruston, LA

-


9,790

-


9,790

1,261



1401 Ezelle St

Rutland, VT

-

1,190

23,655


1,190

23,743

3,125



9 Haywood Avenue

Sacramento, CA

9,948


14,781



15,020

2,963



6350 Riverside Blvd

Salem, OR

-


5,171

-


5,172

2,342



1355 Boone Rd. S.E.

Salem, OR

-


4,726

-


4,726




3988 12th Street SE

Salisbury, NC

-


5,697



5,865

2,006



2201 Statesville Blvd.

San Angelo, TX

-


8,800



9,225

2,658



2695 Valleyview Blvd.

San Angelo, TX

-

1,050

24,689


1,050

24,705




6101 Grand Court Road

San Antonio, TX

-

6,120

28,169

2,124

6,120

30,293

3,514



2702 Cembalo Blvd

San Antonio, TX

-

-

17,303

-

-

17,303

5,758



8902 Floyd Curl Dr.

San Bernardino, CA

-

3,700

14,300


3,700

14,987

2,741



1760 W. 16th St.

San Diego, CA

-

-

22,003

1,845

-

23,848

4,279



555 Washington St.

San Ramon, CA

8,531

2,430

17,488


2,435

17,543

3,354



18888 Bollinger Canyon Rd

Sanatoga, PA

-


30,695



30,733

3,903



225 Evergreen Road

Sand Springs, OK

6,530


19,654

-


19,654

1,803



4402 South 129th Avenue West

Sarasota, FL

-


3,175

-


3,175

1,695



8450 McIntosh Rd.

Sarasota, FL

-


3,400

-


3,400

1,298



4602 Northgate Ct.

Sarasota, FL

-

3,360

19,140

-

3,360

19,140

2,175



6150 Edgelake Drive

Sarasota, FL

-

1,120

12,489


1,120

12,595

1,144



2290 Cattlemen Road

Sarasota, FL

-


8,825



9,360




3221 Fruitville Road

Sarasota, FL

-


9,854



10,036




3749 Sarasota Square Boulevard

Scott Depot, WV

-


6,876



6,934




5 Rolling Meadows

Scranton, PA

-


17,609

-


17,609




2741 Blvd. Ave

Scranton, PA

-


12,144

-


12,144




2751 Boulevard Ave

Seaford, DE

-


14,029



14,082

1,949



1100 Norman Eskridge Highway

Seaford, DE

-


7,995

1,547


9,542




715 East King Street

Seattle, WA

7,456

5,190

9,350


5,199

9,905

2,865



11501 15th Ave NE

Seattle, WA

-

3,420

15,555


3,420

15,760

3,332



2326 California Ave SW

Seattle, WA

-

2,630

10,257


2,630

10,923

2,283



4611 35th Ave SW

Seattle, WA

27,610

10,670

37,291


10,700

38,155

9,686



805 4th Ave N

Selbyville, DE

-


25,912



26,191

3,440



21111 Arrington Dr

Seven Fields, PA

-


4,663



4,722

2,144



500 Seven Fields Blvd.

Severna Park, MD

(2)

-

2,120

31,273


2,120

32,081

4,037



24 Truckhouse Road

Shawnee, OK

-


1,400

-


1,400




3947 Kickapoo

Shelbyville, KY

-


3,870



4,500

1,226



1871 Midland Trail

Shelton, WA

-


17,049



17,345

1,673



900 W Alpine Way

Shepherdstown, WV

-


13,806



13,819

1,762



80 Maddex Drive

Sherman, TX

-


5,221

-


5,221

1,272



1011 E. Pecan Grove Rd.

Shillington, PA

-

1,020

19,569


1,020

20,525

2,652



500 E Philadelphia Ave

Shrewsbury, NJ

-

2,120

38,116


2,127

38,833

5,049



5 Meridian Way

Silver Spring, MD

-

1,250

7,278


1,250

7,547




2101 Fairland Road

Silvis, IL

-


16,420



16,559

2,358



1900 10th St.

Sissonville, WV

-


23,948



24,003

3,083



302 Cedar Ridge Road

Sisterville, WV

-


5,400



5,642




201 Wood Street

Sittingbourne, UKJ

-

1,622

7,815

-

1,622

7,815




200 London Road

Smithfield, NC

-


5,680

-


5,680

1,959



830 Berkshire Rd.

Smithfield, NC

-


8,216

-


8,216




250 Highway 210 West

Somerset, MA

-

1,010

29,577


1,010

29,728

3,788



455 Brayton Avenue

Sonoma, CA

14,497

1,100

18,400

1,700

1,109

20,090

5,507



800 Oregon St.

South Bend, IN

-


17,770

-


17,770




52565 State Road 933

South Boston, MA

-


2,002

5,218


7,220

3,320



804 E. Seventh St.

South Croydon, UKI

-

2,949

2,507

-

2,949

2,507




42-46 Bramley Hill

South Pittsburg, TN

-


5,628

-


5,628

2,077



201E. 10th St.

Southbury, CT

-

1,860

23,613


1,860

24,571

3,020



655 Main St

Sparks, NV

-

3,700

46,526

-

3,700

46,526

8,130



275 Neighborhood Way

Spencer, WV

-


8,810



8,838

1,170



825 Summit Street

Spring City, TN

-


6,085

3,210


9,295

3,344



331 Hinch St.

Spring House, PA

-


10,780



10,979

1,531



905 Penllyn Pike

Springfield, OR

-

1,790

8,865

-

1,790

8,865




770 Harlow Road

Springfield, IL

-

-

10,100

-


9,332




701 North Walnut Street

Springfield, IL

-


13,378

1,084


14,462




3089 Old Jacksonville Road

Spruce Pine, NC

-


8,340



9,016




13681 Highway 226 South

St. Charles, MD

-


15,555



15,639

2,079



4140 Old Washington Highway

St. Paul, MN

-

2,100

33,019

-

2,100

33,019




750 Mississippi River

Stamford, UKF

-

2,175

3,871

-

2,175

3,871




Priory Road

Stanwood, WA

-

2,260

28,474


2,283

28,918

5,829



7212 265th St NW

Statesville, NC

-


1,447



1,713




2441 E. Broad St.

Statesville, NC

-


6,183



6,191

2,068



2806 Peachtree Place

Statesville, NC

-


3,627

-


3,627

1,243



2814 Peachtree Rd.

Stillwater, OK

-


1,400

-


1,400




1616 McElroy Rd.

Stockton, CA

2,863

2,280

5,983


2,372

6,288

1,455



6725 Inglewood

Stratford-upon-Avon, UKG

-


17,341

-


17,341




Scholars Lane

Stroudsburg, PA

-


16,313

-


16,313




370 Whitestone Corner Road

Summit, NJ

-

3,080

14,152

-

3,080

14,152

1,843



41 Springfield Avenue

Superior, WI

-

1,020

13,735

6,159

1,020

19,894

1,282



1915 North 34th Street

Swanton, OH

-


6,370

-


6,370

2,062



401 W. Airport Hwy.

Takoma Park, MD

-

1,300

10,136

-

1,300

10,136

1,058



7525 Carroll Avenue

Terre Haute, IN

-

1,370

18,016

-

1,370

18,016




395 8th Avenue

Texarkana, TX

-


1,403

-


1,403




4204 Moores Lane

The Villages, FL

-

1,035

7,446

-

1,035

7,446




2450 Parr Drive

Tomball, TX

-

1,050

13,300


1,050

13,971

1,715



1221 Graham Dr

Toms River, NJ

-

1,610

34,627


1,679

35,265

4,631



1587 Old Freehold Rd

Toms River, NJ

-

4,180

7,707

-

4,180

7,707




1351 Old Freehold Road

Tonganoxie, KS

-


3,690

-


3,690

-



120 W 8th St

Topeka, KS

-


12,712

-


12,712

1,204



1931 Southwest Arvonia Place

Towson, MD

(2)

-

1,180

13,280


1,180

13,475

1,819



7700 York Road

Troy, OH

-


2,000

4,254


6,254

1,672



81 S. Stanfield Rd.

Troy, OH

-


16,730

-


16,730

5,214



512 Crescent Drive

Trumbull, CT

-

4,440

43,384

-

4,440

43,384

5,393



6949 Main Street

Tucson, AZ

-

1,190

18,318

-

1,190

18,318




8151 E Speedway Boulevard

Tulsa, OK

-

3,003

6,025


3,003

6,045

2,927



3219 S. 79th E. Ave.

Tulsa, OK

-

1,390

7,110


1,390

7,572

1,239



7220 S. Yale Ave.

Tulsa, OK

-

1,320

10,087

-

1,320

10,087




7902 South Mingo Road East

Tyler, TX

-


5,268

-


5,268

1,224



5550 Old Jacksonville Hwy.

Uhrichsville, OH

-


6,716

-


6,716

1,882



5166 Spanson Drive S.E.

Uniontown, PA

-


6,817



6,901




75 Hikle Street

Upper Providence, PA

-

-

-

30,095

1,900

28,195




1133 Black Rock Road

Vacaville, CA

13,640


17,100

1,651


18,751

5,251



799 Yellowstone Dr.

Vallejo, CA

13,656

4,000

18,000

2,344

4,030

20,315

5,625



350 Locust Dr.

Vallejo, CA

7,257

2,330

15,407


2,330

15,717

3,321



2261 Tuolumne

Valley Falls, RI

-

1,080

7,433


1,080

7,443

1,024



100 Chambers Street

Valparaiso, IN

-


2,558

-


2,558

1,027



2601 Valparaiso St.

Valparaiso, IN

-


2,962

-


2,962

1,168



2501 Valparaiso St.

Vancouver, WA

11,427

1,820

19,042


1,821

19,311

3,855



10011 NE 118th Ave

Venice, FL

-


6,000

-


6,000

2,019



1240 Pinebrook Rd.

Venice, FL

-

1,150

10,674

-

1,150

10,674

1,811



1600 Center Rd.

Vero Beach, FL

-


3,187

-


3,187

1,246



420 4th Ct.

Vero Beach, FL

-


3,263

-


3,263

1,286



410 4th Ct.

Vero Beach, FL

-

2,930

40,070

15,112

2,930

55,182

10,691



7955 16th Manor

Virginia Beach, VA

-

1,540

22,593

-

1,540

22,593




5520 Indian River Rd

Voorhees, NJ

-

1,800

37,299


1,800

37,858

4,942



2601 Evesham Road

Voorhees, NJ

(2)

-

1,900

26,040


1,900

26,934

3,515



3001 Evesham Road

Voorhees, NJ

-

3,100

25,950

-

3,100

25,950

2,207



113 South Route 73

Voorhees, NJ

-

3,700

24,312

1,490

3,847

25,655

1,667



311 Route 73

Wabash, IN

-


14,588

-


14,588




20 John Kissinger Drive

Waconia, MN

-


14,726

4,495


19,221

2,061



500 Cherry Street

Wake Forest, NC

-


3,003

1,742


4,745

1,974



611 S. Brooks St.

Walkersville, MD

-

1,650

15,103

-

1,650

15,103

1,535



56 West Frederick Street

Wall, NJ

-

1,650

25,350

2,361

1,690

27,671

3,000



2021 Highway 35

Wallingford, CT

-


1,210



1,269




35 Marc Drive

Walsall, UKG

-

1,416

10,234

-

1,416

10,234




Little Aston Road

Wamego, KS

-


2,510

-


2,510

-



1607 4th St

Wareham, MA

-


10,313

1,701


12,014

4,711



50 Indian Neck Rd.

Warren, NJ

-

2,000

30,810


2,000

31,288

3,504



274 King George Rd

Warwick, RI

-

1,530

18,564


1,530

18,734

2,514



660 Commonwealth Avenue

Watchung, NJ

-

1,920

24,880


1,976

25,724

2,885



680 Mountain Boulevard

Waukee, IA

-

1,870

31,878

1,075

1,870

32,953

2,829



1650 SE Holiday Crest Circle

Waxahachie, TX

-


5,763

-


5,763

1,204



1329 Brown St.

Weatherford, TX

-


5,261

-


5,261

1,232



1818 Martin Drive

Webster, NY

-


8,968



9,004




100 Kidd Castle Way

Webster, NY

-

1,300

21,127


1,300

21,136

1,753



200 Kidd Castle Way

Webster Groves, MO

-

1,790

15,425

-

1,790

15,425

1,368



45 E Lockwood Avenue

Wellingborough, UKF

-

1,770

6,841

-

1,770

6,841




159 Northampton

West Bend, WI

-


17,790



17,828

1,890



2130 Continental Dr

West Chester, PA

-

1,350

29,237


1,350

29,359

3,833



800 West Miner Street

West Chester, PA

-

3,290

42,258


3,290

42,852

4,266



1615 East Boot Road

West Chester, PA

-


11,894



11,899

1,210



1615 East Boot Road

West Orange, NJ

-

2,280

10,687


2,280

10,869

1,581



20 Summit Street

West Worthington, OH

-


5,090

-


5,090

1,479



111 Lazelle Rd., E.

Westerville, OH

-


8,287

3,105


11,392

8,069



690 Cooper Rd.

Westfield, IN

(2)

-


15,964

-


15,964




937 E. 186th Street

Westfield, NJ

-

2,270

16,589


2,270

17,086

2,441



1515 Lamberts Mill Road

Westford, MA

-


13,829



14,034

1,898



3 Park Drive

Westlake, OH

-

1,330

17,926

-

1,330

17,926

6,923



27601 Westchester Pkwy.

Westmoreland, TN

-


1,822

2,640


4,462

1,837



1559 New Hwy. 52

Weston Super Mare, UKK

-

3,008

8,432

-

3,008

8,432




141b Milton Road

Westworth Village, TX

-

2,060

31,296

-

2,060

31,296




25 Leonard Trail

Wetaskiwin, AB

-


20,131

-


20,131




5430-37 A Avenue

White Lake, MI

9,970

2,920

20,179


2,920

20,271

2,821



935 Union Lake Rd

Whittier, CA

-

4,470

22,151


4,483

22,596

5,940



13250 E Philadelphia St

Wichita, KS

-

1,400

11,000

-

1,400

11,000

3,511



505 North Maize Road

Wichita, KS

-


8,873

-


8,873




10604 E 13th Street North

Wichita, KS

13,404


19,746

-


19,752

1,781



2050 North Webb Road

Wichita, KS

-


2,240

-


2,240

-



900 N Bayshore Dr

Wichita, KS

-

-

-

11,034


10,134




10604 E 13th Street North

Wichita Falls, TX

-

1,070

26,167


1,070

26,253

1,037



3908 Kell W Boulevard

Wilkes-Barre, PA

-


13,842



13,961

1,891



440 North River Street

Wilkes-Barre, PA

-


2,301



2,345




300 Courtright Street

Willard, OH

-


6,447

-


6,447




1050 Neal Zick

Williamsport, PA

-


4,946



5,319




1251 Rural Avenue

Williamsport, PA

-


8,487



8,925

1,284



1201 Rural Avenue

Williamstown, KY

-


6,430

-


6,430

1,994



201 Kimberly Lane

Willow Grove, PA

-

1,300

14,736


1,300

14,845

2,096



1113 North Easton Road

Wilmington, DE

-


9,494



9,551

1,339



810 S Broom Street

Wilmington, NC

-


2,991

-


2,991

1,348



3501 Converse Dr.

Wilmington, NC

-


15,356

-


15,356




3828 Independence Blvd

Wilmington, NC

-


6,575



7,162




3915 Stedwick Ct

Windsor, CT

-

2,250

8,539

1,843

2,250

10,382

1,462



One Emerson Drive

Windsor, CT

-

1,800



1,800

1,544




One Emerson Drive

Winston-Salem, NC

-


2,514



2,973

1,062



2980 Reynolda Rd.

Winter Garden, FL

-

1,350

7,937

-

1,350

7,937




720 Roper Road

Winter Haven, FL

-


10,038



10,274




650 North Lake Howard Drive

Witherwack, UKC

-

1,128

8,265

-

1,128

8,265




Whitchurch Road

Wolverhampton, UKG

-

1,880

7,982

-

1,880

7,982




378 Prestonwood Road

Worcester, MA

-

3,500

54,099

-

3,500

54,099

8,690



101 Barry Road

Worcester, MA

-

2,300

9,060

-

2,300

9,060

1,854



378 Plantation St.

Wyncote, PA

-

2,700

22,244


2,700

22,392

3,006



1245 Church Road

Wyncote, PA

-

1,610

21,256


1,610

21,470

2,751



8100 Washington Lane

Wyncote, PA

-


7,811



7,843

1,047



240 Barker Road

York, UKE

-

3,539

9,880

-

3,539

9,880




Rosetta Way, Boroughbridge Road

Youngsville, NC

-


10,689

-


10,689




100 Sunset Drive

Zionsville, IN

-

1,610

22,400

1,691

1,610

24,091

3,265



11755 N Michigan Rd

Triple-net total

$

554,014

$

1,003,748

$

10,800,837

$

600,549

$

1,032,860

$

11,372,276

$

1,539,032



Welltower Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and
  Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2015

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount at Which Carried
  at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Building &
  Improvements

Cost Capitalized
  Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Building &
  Improvements

Accumulated Depreciation

(1)

Year Acquired

Year Built

Address

Seniors housing operating:

Acton, MA

$

-

$

-

$

31,346

$


$


$

32,089

$

3,299



10 Devon Drive

Agawam, MA

6,453


10,044



10,514

2,089



153 Cardinal Drive

Albuquerque, NM

-

1,270

20,837

1,324

1,275

22,156

4,393



500 Paisano St NE

Alhambra, CA

-


6,305



6,658

1,121



1118 N. Stoneman Ave.

Altrincham, UKD

-

5,685

29,221


5,061

29,936

4,161



295 Hale Road

Amherstview, ON



4,446

-


4,446




4567 Bath Road

Arlington, TX

21,484

1,660

37,395

1,184

1,677

38,561

7,452



1250 West Pioneer Parkway

Arnprior, ON



6,283

-


6,283




15 Arthur Street

Atlanta, GA

-

2,100

20,603


2,154

21,011

2,241



1000 Lenox Park Blvd NE

Austin, TX

-

1,560

21,413


1,560

21,435

1,282



11330 Farrah Lane

Austin, TX

-

4,200

74,850

-

4,200

74,850

1,951



4310 Bee Caves Road

Avon, CT

18,998

1,550

30,571

1,948

1,580

32,489

7,374



101 Bickford Extension

Azusa, CA

-


3,141

6,470


9,611

2,361



125 W. Sierra Madre Ave.

Bagshot, UKJ

-

5,928

35,673

-

5,928

35,673

5,502



14 - 16 London Road

Banstead, UKJ

-

8,781

54,836

9,357

7,992

64,981

8,432



Croydon Lane

Basingstoke, UKJ

-

4,088

22,502

-

4,088

22,502

1,023



Grove Road

Basking Ridge, NJ

-

2,356

37,710


2,377

38,293

4,836



404 King George Road

Bassett, UKJ

-

5,826

38,030

-

5,826

38,030

5,563



111 Burgess Road

Baton Rouge, LA

9,346


29,436



29,675

3,710



9351 Siegen Lane

Beaconsfield, UKJ

-

6,653

60,856

-

6,653

60,856

7,616



30-34 Station Road

Beaconsfield, QC

-

1,149

17,484

-

1,149

17,484

3,324



505 Elm Avenue

Bedford, NH

-

-

-

33,113

2,527

30,586

3,350



5 Corporate Drive

Bellevue, WA

-

2,800

19,004


2,809

19,919

3,300



15928 NE 8th Street

Belmont, CA

-

3,000

23,526

1,461

3,000

24,987

4,697



1301 Ralston Avenue

Belmont, CA

-

-

35,300


-

36,081

4,914



1010 Alameda de Las Pulgas

Bethesda, MD

-

-

45,309



45,694

5,986



8300 Burdett Road

Bethesda, MD

-

-

-


-





8300 Burdett Road

Bethesda, MD

-

-

-


-





8300 Burdett Road

Billerica, MA

-

1,619

21,381

-

1,619

21,381

1,227



20 Charnstaffe Lane

Birmingham, UKG

-


25,287

-


25,287

3,627



5 Church Road, Edgbaston

Blainville, QC

-

2,077

8,902

-

2,077

8,902

2,038



50 des Chateaux Boulevard

Bloomfield Hills, MI

-

2,000

35,662


2,000

36,056

4,563



6790 Telegraph Road

Borehamwood, UKH

-

7,074

41,060

7,965

6,416

49,683

6,237



Edgwarebury Lane

Bothell, WA

-

1,350

13,439

-

1,350

13,439




10605 NE 185th Street

Boulder, CO

-

2,994

27,458

1,304

3,014

28,742

4,765



3955 28th Street

Bournemouth, UKK

-

6,606

50,811

-

6,606

50,811

5,372



42 Belle Vue Road

Braintree, MA

21,006

-

41,290



41,702

5,638



618 Granite Street

Brampton, ON

27,998

9,939

62,711

-

9,939

62,711




100 Ken Whillans Drive

Brighton, MA

10,332

2,100

14,616


2,109

15,243

3,083



50 Sutherland Road

Brockport, NY

-

1,500

23,496

-

1,500

23,496

-



90 West Avenue

Brockville, ON

4,580


7,445

-


7,445




1026 Bridlewood Drive

Brookfield, CT

19,359

2,250

30,180

1,079

2,262

31,247

6,261



246A Federal Road

Broomfield, CO

-

4,140

44,547

10,339

8,611

50,414

9,339



400 Summit Blvd

Brossard, QC

11,428

5,228

33,507

-

5,228

33,507




2455 Boulevard Rome

Buckingham, UKJ

-

3,561

16,549

-

3,561

16,549




Church Street

Buffalo Grove, IL

-

2,850

49,129


2,850

49,591

6,550



500 McHenry Road

Burbank, CA

-

4,940

43,466


4,940

44,172

7,078



455 E. Angeleno Avenue

Burlington, ON

12,946

1,309

19,311

-

1,309

19,311

2,842



500 Appleby Line

Burlington, MA

-

2,443

34,354


2,522

34,901

4,973



24 Mall Road

Calabasas, CA

-

-

6,438


-

7,181

3,512



25100 Calabasas Road

Calgary, AB

12,640

2,252

37,415

-

2,252

37,415

5,775



20 Promenade Way SE

Calgary, AB

14,536

2,793

41,179

-

2,793

41,179

5,986



80 Edenwold Drive NW

Calgary, AB

11,476

3,122

38,971

-

3,122

38,971

5,617



150 Scotia Landing NW

Calgary, AB

22,995

3,431

28,983

-

3,431

28,983

3,350



9229 16th Street SW

Calgary, AB

23,846

2,385

36,776

-

2,385

36,776




2220-162nd Avenue SW

Camberley, UKJ

-

2,654

5,736


2,654

5,783




Fernhill Road

Cardiff, UKL

-

3,814

14,935

-

3,814

14,935

2,737



127 Cyncoed Road

Cardiff by the Sea, CA

39,580

5,880

64,711


5,880

65,421

10,470



3535 Manchester Avenue

Carol Stream, IL

-

1,730

55,048

1,079

1,730

56,127

8,192



545 Belmont Lane

Cary, NC

-


45,240



45,509

4,788



1206 West Chatham Street

Centerville, MA

-

1,300

27,357


1,324

28,066

4,665



22 Richardson Road

Chatham, ON

1,620

1,098

12,462

-

1,098

12,462




25 Keil Drive North

Chelmsford, MA

-

1,589

26,432

-

1,589

26,432

1,383



199 Chelmsford Street

Chesterfield, MO

-

1,857

48,366


1,857

48,786

5,652



1880 Clarkson Road

Chorleywood, UKH

-

6,715

50,515

-

6,715

50,515

7,004



High View, Rickmansworth Road

Chula Vista, CA

-

2,072

22,163


2,076

22,757

2,915



3302 Bonita Road

Church Crookham, UKJ

-

3,097

16,975

-

3,097

16,975

1,391



Bourley Road

Cincinnati, OH

-

2,060

109,388

8,391

2,060

117,779

15,708



5445 Kenwood Road

Claremont, CA

-

2,430

9,928


2,438

10,545

1,601



2053 North Towne Avenue

Cohasset, MA

-

2,485

26,147

1,013

2,485

27,160

3,591



125 King Street (Rt 3A)

Colorado Springs, CO

-


14,756

1,145


15,861

1,900



2105 University Park Boulevard

Concord, NH

13,329


21,164



21,750

3,545



300 Pleasant Street

Coquitlam, BC

10,393

3,047

24,567

-

3,047

24,567

4,690



1142 Dufferin Street

Costa Mesa, CA

-

2,050

19,969


2,050

20,924

3,889



350 West Bay St

Crystal Lake, IL

-


12,461



13,320

2,146



751 E Terra Cotta Avenue

Dallas, TX

-

1,080

9,655


1,080

10,119

1,854



3611 Dickason Avenue

Dallas, TX

-

6,330

114,794

-

6,330

114,794

3,383



3535 N Hall Street

Danvers, MA

9,348

1,120

14,557


1,145

15,179

2,822



1 Veronica Drive

Danvers, MA

-

2,203

28,761

-

2,203

28,761

1,764



9 Summer Street

Davenport, IA

-

1,403

35,893

2,708

1,480

38,525

6,728



4500 Elmore Ave.

Decatur, GA

-

-

-

30,298

1,938

28,360

4,176



920 Clairemont Avenue

Denver, CO

12,519

1,450

19,389

2,925

1,455

22,310

2,866



4901 South Monaco Street

Denver, CO

-

2,910

35,838


2,930

36,515

6,269



8101 E Mississippi Avenue

Dix Hills, NY

-

3,808

39,014


3,808

39,538

5,345



337 Deer Park Road

Dollard-Des-Ormeaux, QC

-

1,957

14,431

-

1,957

14,431

3,346



4377 St. Jean Blvd

Dresher, PA

7,233

1,900

10,664


1,900

11,377

2,495



1650 Susquehanna Road

Dublin, OH

-

1,680

43,423

5,238

1,775

48,566

9,230



6470 Post Rd

East Haven, CT

22,496

2,660

35,533

1,570

2,681

37,082

8,959



111 South Shore Drive

East Meadow, NY

-


45,991



46,257

6,128



1555 Glen Curtiss Boulevard

East Setauket, NY

-

4,920

37,354


4,975

38,043

4,947



1 Sunrise Drive

Eastbourne, UKJ

-

4,950

40,084

-

4,950

40,084

5,508



6 Upper Kings Drive

Edgbaston, UKG

-

-

-

19,687

3,251

16,435




Pershore Road

Edgewater, NJ

-

4,561

25,047


4,564

25,944

3,612



351 River Road

Edison, NJ

-

1,892

32,314


1,896

33,113

6,670



1801 Oak Tree Road

Edmonds, WA

11,182

1,650

24,449

-

1,650

24,449




21500 72nd Avenue West

Edmonton, AB

9,349

1,589

29,819

-

1,589

29,819

4,666



103 Rabbit Hill Court NW

Edmonton, AB

12,029

2,063

37,293

-

2,063

37,293

7,921



10015 103rd Avenue NW

Encinitas, CA

-

1,460

7,721


1,460

8,603

3,759



335 Saxony Rd.

Encino, CA

-

5,040

46,255


5,040

47,209

7,138



15451 Ventura Boulevard

Escondido, CA

-

1,520

24,024

1,147

1,520

25,171

4,710



1500 Borden Rd

Esher, UKJ

-

6,913

57,473

-

6,913

57,473

6,818



42 Copsem Lane

Fairfax, VA

-


2,678



2,791




9207 Arlington Boulevard

Fairfield, NJ

-

3,120

43,868


3,175

44,620

5,991



47 Greenbrook Road

Fareham, UKJ

-

4,074

21,353

-

4,074

21,353

1,435



Redlands Lane

Flossmoor, IL

-

1,292

9,496

1,011

1,335

10,464

1,817



19715 Governors Highway

Folsom, CA

-

1,490

32,754

-

1,490

32,754

1,231



1574 Creekside Drive

Fort Worth, TX

-

2,080

27,888

1,198

2,085

29,081

5,834



2151 Green Oaks Road

Franklin, MA

-

2,430

30,597

1,046

2,442

31,632

3,542



4 Forge Hill Road

Frome, UKK

-

3,251

17,692

-

3,251

17,692




Welshmill Lane

Fullerton, CA

12,774

1,964

19,989


1,982

20,459

2,892



2226 North Euclid Street

Gahanna, OH

-


11,214

1,121


12,320

1,446



775 East Johnstown Road

Gilbert, AZ

16,323

2,160

28,246


2,160

28,520

5,989



580 S. Gilbert Road

Gilroy, CA

-


13,880

24,386

1,567

37,459

7,997



7610 Isabella Way

Glen Cove, NY

-

4,594

35,236

1,174

4,615

36,389

5,988



39 Forest Avenue

Glenview, IL

-

2,090

69,288

1,130

2,090

70,418

10,039



2200 Golf Road

Golden Valley, MN

19,753

1,520

33,513


1,545

34,049

4,157



4950 Olson Memorial Highway

Grimsby, ON

-


5,617

-


5,617




84 Main Street East

Grosse Pointe Woods, MI

-


13,662



13,829

1,643



1850 Vernier Road

Grosse Pointe Woods, MI

-

1,430

31,777


1,430

32,312

3,839



21260 Mack Avenue

Guelph, ON

4,308

1,190

7,597

-

1,190

7,597




165 Cole Road

Guildford, UKJ

-

6,407

67,400

-

6,407

67,400

8,265



Astolat Way, Peasmarsh

Gurnee, IL

-


27,931



28,777

3,223



500 North Hunt Club Road

Hamden, CT

15,138

1,460

24,093

1,003

1,487

25,069

5,194



35 Hamden Hills Drive

Hampshire, UKJ

-

4,986

30,861

-

4,986

30,861

4,034



22-26 Church Road

Haverhill, MA

-

1,720

50,046

-

1,720

50,046

2,805



254 Amesbury Road

Henderson, NV

-


29,809



29,952

4,016



1935 Paseo Verde Parkway

Henderson, NV

5,677

1,190

11,600


1,202

11,985

2,653



1555 West Horizon Ridge Parkway

Highland Park, IL

-

2,250

25,313


2,259

25,782

4,191



1601 Green Bay Road

Hingham, MA

-

1,440

32,292

-

1,440

32,292

1,259



1 Sgt. William B Terry Drive

Holbrook, NY

-

3,957

35,337


3,957

35,721

4,664



320 Patchogue Holbrook Road

Horley, UKJ

-

2,787

14,477

-

2,787

14,477

1,331



Court Lodge Road

Houston, TX

-

3,830

55,674

4,340

3,830

60,014

10,100



2929 West Holcombe Boulevard

Houston, TX

17,606

1,040

31,965

5,013

1,044

36,974

4,999



505 Bering Drive

Houston, TX

-


27,598

1,312


28,910

5,237



10225 Cypresswood Dr

Hove, UKJ

-

1,626

8,178

-

1,626

8,178




Furze Hill

Huntington Beach, CA

-

3,808

31,172

1,148

3,860

32,268

5,293



7401 Yorktown Avenue

Irving, TX

-

1,030

6,823

1,178

1,030

8,001

1,795



8855 West Valley Ranch Parkway

Johns Creek, GA

-

1,580

23,285


1,588

23,461

3,166



11405 Medlock Bridge Road

Kanata, ON

-

1,639

30,700

-

1,639

30,700

5,783



70 Stonehaven Drive

Kansas City, MO

-

1,820

34,898

3,713

1,845

38,587

7,589



12100 Wornall Road

Kansas City, MO

6,250

1,930

39,997

3,393

1,963

43,357

9,011



6500 North Cosby Ave

Kansas City, MO

-


23,962

-


23,962




6460 North Cosby Avenue

Kelowna, BC

5,878

2,688

13,647

-

2,688

13,647

2,670



863 Leon Avenue

Kennebunk, ME

-

2,700

30,204

2,066

3,022

31,948

8,415



One Huntington Common Drive

Kingston, ON

4,633

1,030

11,416

-

1,030

11,416




181 Ontario Street

Kingwood, TX

-


9,777



10,147

1,813



22955 Eastex Freeway

Kirkland, WA

24,600

3,450

38,709


3,454

39,129

5,857



14 Main Street South

Kitchener, ON

1,487


2,744

-


2,744




164 - 168 Ferfus Avenue

Kitchener, ON

4,638

1,130

9,939

-

1,130

9,939

1,615



20 Fieldgate Street

Kitchener, ON

3,533

1,093

7,327

-

1,093

7,327

1,651



290 Queen Street South

La Palma, CA

-

2,950

16,591


2,950

17,128

2,335



5321 La Palma Avenue

Lafayette Hill, PA

-

1,750

11,848

1,311

1,825

13,085

2,439



429 Ridge Pike

Lawrenceville, GA

15,896

1,500

29,003


1,508

29,276

4,012



1375 Webb Gin House Road

Leawood, KS

15,614

2,490

32,493

2,594

5,690

31,887

5,631



4400 West 115th Street

Lenexa, KS

9,757


26,251



26,735

4,231



15055 West 87th Street Parkway

Leominster, MA

-


23,164

-


23,164

1,521



1160 Main Street

Lincroft, NJ

-


19,958



20,831

2,675



734 Newman Springs Road

Lombard, IL

16,893

2,130

59,943


2,130

60,361

7,667



2210 Fountain Square Dr

London, UKI

-

3,731

11,948

-

3,731

11,948




71 Hatch Lane

London, ON

1,174


8,228

-


8,228




760 Horizon Drive

London, ON

6,383

1,969

16,985

-

1,969

16,985

1,109



1486 Richmond Street North

London, ON

-

1,445

13,631

-

1,445

13,631




81 Grand Avenue

Longueuil, QC

9,927

3,992

23,711

-

3,992

23,711




70 Rue Levis

Los Angeles, CA

-

-

11,430

1,544

-

12,974

2,316



330 North Hayworth Avenue

Los Angeles, CA

64,160

-

114,438

1,304

-

115,742

19,542



10475 Wilshire Boulevard

Los Angeles, CA

-

3,540

19,007


3,540

19,744

2,869



2051 N. Highland Avenue

Louisville, KY

-

2,420

20,816


2,420

21,480

3,334



4600 Bowling Boulevard

Louisville, KY

11,169

1,600

20,326


1,600

20,508

3,240



6700 Overlook Drive

Lynnfield, MA

-

3,165

45,200

1,376

3,165

46,576

6,172



55 Salem Street

Malvern, PA

-

1,651

17,194

1,214

1,708

18,351

3,710



324 Lancaster Avenue

Mansfield, MA

27,863

3,320

57,011

2,831

3,431

59,732

12,218



25 Cobb Street

Maple Ridge, BC

7,918

2,789

12,331

-

2,789

12,331




12241 224th Street

Marieville, QC

6,774

1,278

12,113

-

1,278

12,113




425 rue Claude de Ramezay

Markham, ON

15,975

3,727

48,939

-

3,727

48,939

10,287



7700 Bayview Avenue

Marlboro, NJ

-

2,222

14,888


2,222

15,416

2,303



3A South Main Street

Medicine Hat, AB

4,249

1,432

14,141

-

1,432

14,141




223 Park Meadows Drive SE

Memphis, TN

-

1,800

17,744


1,800

18,578

3,777



6605 Quail Hollow Road

Meriden, CT

9,227

1,500

14,874


1,538

15,563

4,125



511 Kensington Avenue

Metairie, LA

13,240


27,708



27,985

3,320



3732 West Esplanade Ave. S

Middletown, CT

15,198

1,430

24,242

1,104

1,439

25,336

5,366



645 Saybrook Road

Middletown, RI

16,163

2,480

24,628

1,389

2,507

25,990

5,392



303 Valley Road

Milford, CT

11,338

3,210

17,364

1,114

3,210

18,478

4,266



77 Plains Road

Milton, ON

13,007

4,542

25,321

-

4,542

25,321




611 Farmstead Drive

Minnetonka, MN

14,206

2,080

24,360


2,153

25,112

3,843



500 Carlson Parkway

Minnetonka, MN

16,253


29,344



29,739

3,448



18605 Old Excelsior Blvd.

Mississauga, ON

9,033

1,602

17,996

-

1,602

17,996

2,778



1130 Bough Beeches Boulevard

Mississauga, ON

3,041


4,655

-


4,655




3051 Constitution Boulevard

Mississauga, ON

19,501

3,649

35,137

-

3,649

35,137

1,972



1490 Rathburn Road East

Mississauga, ON

6,152

2,548

15,158

-

2,548

15,158




85 King Street East

Mobberley, UKD

-

6,150

31,685

-

6,150

31,685

5,954



Barclay Park, Hall Lane

Monterey, CA

-

6,440

29,101


6,440

29,648

3,980



1110 Cass St.

Montgomery Village, MD

-

3,530

18,246

3,533

3,544

21,766

6,009



19310 Club House Road

Moose Jaw, SK

2,620


12,973

-


12,973

1,995



425 4th Avenue NW

Mystic, CT

11,338

1,400

18,274


1,427

18,942

3,785



20 Academy Lane  Mystic

Naperville, IL

-

1,550

12,237

2,165

1,550

14,402




1936 Brookdale Road

Naperville, IL

-

1,540

28,204


1,540

28,942

4,073



535 West Ogden Avenue

Naples, FL

58,092

8,989

119,398

-

8,989

119,398

1,193



4800 Aston Gardens Way

Nashua, NH

-

1,264

43,026

-

1,264

43,026

1,955



674 West Hollis Street

Nashville, TN

-

3,900

35,788

1,372

3,900

37,160

6,856



4206 Stammer Place

Nepean, ON

5,769

1,575

5,770

-

1,575

5,770




1 Mill Hill Road

Newmarket, UKH

-

5,141

13,478


4,866

14,093

1,015



Jeddah Way

Newton, MA

27,501

2,250

43,614


2,263

44,273

8,293



2300 Washington Street

Newton, MA

15,873

2,500

30,681

1,800

2,514

32,467

6,425



280 Newtonville Avenue

Newton, MA

-

3,360

25,099

1,162

3,376

26,245

5,518



430 Centre Street

Newtown Square, PA

-

1,930

14,420


1,941

14,953

3,190



333 S. Newtown Street Rd.

Niagara Falls, ON

6,784

1,225

7,963

-

1,225

7,963




7860 Lundy's Lane

Niantic, CT

-

1,320

25,986

4,175

1,331

30,150

4,661



417 Main Street

North Andover, MA

22,315

1,960

34,976

1,203

2,019

36,120

6,815



700 Chickering Road

North Chelmsford, MA

11,760


18,478



19,243

3,338



2 Technology Drive

North Tustin, CA

-

2,880

18,059


2,880

18,416

1,998



12291 Newport Avenue

Oak Park, IL

-

1,250

40,383


1,250

40,953

6,150



1035 Madison Street

Oakland, CA

-

3,877

47,508

1,169

3,877

48,677

6,651



11889 Skyline Boulevard

Oakton, VA

-

2,250

37,576

1,425

2,252

38,998

4,964



2863 Hunter Mill Road

Oakville, ON

5,853

1,252

7,382

-

1,252

7,382

1,184



289 and 299 Randall Street

Oakville, ON

10,232

2,134

29,963

-

2,134

29,963

5,104



25 Lakeshore Road West

Oakville, ON

5,347

1,271

13,754

-

1,271

13,754

1,836



345 Church Street

Oceanside, CA

12,460

2,160

18,352

2,082

2,193

20,401

3,904



3500 Lake Boulevard

Okotoks, AB

17,631


20,943

-


20,943

1,244



51 Riverside Gate

Oshawa, ON

3,197


7,570

-


7,570

1,259



649 King Street East

Ottawa, ON

9,420

1,341

15,425

-

1,341

15,425




110 Berrigan Drive

Ottawa, ON

19,071

3,454

23,309

-

3,454

23,309

1,609



2370 Carling Avenue

Ottawa, ON

21,966

4,177

40,023

-

4,177

40,023




751 Peter Morand Crescent

Ottawa, ON

7,110

2,103

18,421

-

2,103

18,421




1 Eaton Street

Ottawa, ON

12,273

2,963

26,424

-

2,963

26,424




691 Valin Street

Ottawa, ON

10,213

1,561

18,170

-

1,561

18,170




22 Barnstone Drive

Ottawa, ON

13,970

3,403

31,090

-

3,403

31,090




990 Hunt Club Road

Ottawa, ON

18,867

3,411

28,335

-

3,411

28,335




2 Valley Stream Drive

Ottawa, ON

2,986


4,710

-


4,710




1345 Ogilvie Road

Ottawa, ON

2,178


2,165



3,273




370 Kennedy Lane

Ottawa, ON

10,733

2,809

27,299

-

2,809

27,299

5,099



43 Aylmer Avenue

Ottawa, ON

4,781

1,156

9,758

-

1,156

9,758

1,244



1351 Hunt Club Road

Ottawa, ON

3,392


7,800

-


7,800

1,167



140 Darlington Private

Ottawa, ON

9,348

1,176

12,764

-

1,176

12,764




10 Vaughan Street

Overland Park, KS

3,470

1,540

16,269

1,096

1,725

17,180

2,420



9201 Foster

Palo Alto, CA

16,839

-

39,639

1,145

-

40,784

5,203



2701 El Camino Real

Paramus, NJ

-

2,840

35,728


2,851

36,645

4,496



567 Paramus Road

Parkland, FL

57,666

4,880

111,481

-

4,880

111,481

1,171



5999 University Drive

Peabody, MA

6,338

-

-

19,009

2,250

16,758

1,379



73 Margin Street

Pembroke, ON

-

1,873

10,045

-

1,873

10,045

1,878



1111 Pembroke Street West

Pittsburgh, PA

-

1,580

18,017


1,580

18,386

2,830



900 Lincoln Club Dr.

Plainview, NY

-

3,066

19,901


3,079

20,258

2,354



1231 Old Country Road

Plano, TX

4,101


8,538



9,249

2,025



5521 Village Creek Dr

Plano, TX

28,734

3,120

59,950


3,120

60,788

11,356



4800 West Parker Road

Playa Vista, CA

-

1,580

40,531


1,580

41,217

5,627



5555 Playa Vista Drive

Plymouth, MA

-

1,444

34,951

-

1,444

34,951

1,899



157 South Street

Port Perry, ON

9,892

3,685

26,788

-

3,685

26,788




15987 Simcoe Street

Providence, RI

-

2,600

27,546

1,148

2,651

28,643

7,384



700 Smith Street

Purley, UKI

-

9,676

35,251

5,749

8,798

41,878

6,710



21 Russell Hill Road

Queensbury, NY

-

1,260

21,744

-

1,260

21,744

-



27 Woodvale Road

Quincy, MA

-

1,350

12,584


1,386

13,183

2,738



2003 Falls Boulevard

Rancho Cucamonga, CA

-

1,480

10,055


1,487

10,560

1,858



9519 Baseline Road

Rancho Palos Verdes, CA

-

5,450

60,034

1,284

5,450

61,318

9,043



5701 Crestridge Road

Randolph, NJ

-

1,540

46,934


1,540

47,536

6,100



648 Route 10 West

Red Deer, AB

11,851

1,247

19,283

-

1,247

19,283




3100 - 22 Street

Red Deer, AB

13,946

1,199

22,339

-

1,199

22,339




10 Inglewood Drive

Redondo Beach, CA

-

-

9,557


-

10,168

3,906



514 North Prospect Ave

Regina, SK

7,017

1,485

21,148

-

1,485

21,148

3,704



3651 Albert Street

Regina, SK

6,771

1,244

21,036

-

1,244

21,036

2,891



3105 Hillsdale Street

Regina, SK

13,178

1,539

24,053

-

1,539

24,053




1801 McIntyre Street

Renton, WA

21,565

3,080

51,824


3,080

52,164

7,774



104 Burnett Avenue South

Ridgefield, CT

-

3,100

80,614

-

3,100

80,614

4,320



640 Danbury Road

Riviere-du-Loup, QC

3,309


8,504

-


8,504




35 des Cedres

Riviere-du-Loup, QC

9,489

1,454

16,848

-

1,454

16,848




230-235 rue Des Chenes

Rocky Hill, CT

10,253


16,351



16,835

3,090



1160 Elm Street

Romeoville, IL

-


12,646

59,431

6,168

66,763

10,561



605 S Edward Dr.

Roseville, MN

-

1,540

35,877


1,585

36,331

4,298



2555 Snelling Avenue, North

Roswell, GA

-

2,080

6,486

1,169

2,380

7,355

1,317



75 Magnolia Street

Sacramento, CA

-

1,300

23,394


1,304

23,954

2,916



345 Munroe Street

Saint-Lambert, QC

23,254

9,931

107,748

-

9,931

107,748

45,319



1705 Avenue Victoria

Salem, NH

20,566


32,721


1,051

33,519

5,679



242 Main Street

Salisbury, UKK

-

3,251

18,169

-

3,251

18,169




Shapland Close

Salt Lake City, UT

-

1,360

19,691

1,650

1,360

21,341

5,156



1430 E. 4500 S.

San Diego, CA

-

4,200

30,707


4,200

30,908

3,289



2567 Second Avenue

San Diego, CA

-

5,810

63,078


5,810

64,004

11,714



13075 Evening Creek Drive S

San Diego, CA

-

3,000

27,164


3,000

27,592

3,186



810 Turquoise Street

San Gabriel, CA

-

3,120

15,566


3,120

16,055

2,296



8332 Huntington Drive

San Jose, CA

-

2,850

35,098


2,850

35,323

5,236



1420 Curvi Drive

San Jose, CA

-

3,280

46,823

1,261

3,280

48,084

7,027



500 S Winchester Boulevard

San Juan Capistrano, CA

-

1,390

6,942

1,056

1,390

7,998

3,028



30311 Camino Capistrano

Sandy Springs, GA

-

2,214

8,360


2,220

8,799

1,794



5455 Glenridge Drive NE

Santa Maria, CA

-

6,050

50,658

1,162

6,063

51,806

10,701



1220 Suey Road

Santa Monica, CA

19,936

5,250

28,340


5,252

28,839

3,729



1312 15th Street

Saskatoon, SK

4,329


13,905

-


13,905

1,753



220 24th Street East

Saskatoon, SK

10,078

1,382

17,609

-

1,382

17,609

2,236



1622 Acadia Drive

Schaumburg, IL

-

2,460

22,863


2,479

23,584

3,840



790 North Plum Grove Road

Scottsdale, AZ

-

2,500

3,890

1,244

2,500

5,134

1,136



9410 East Thunderbird Road

Seal Beach, CA

-

6,204

72,954

1,057

6,208

74,007

13,575



3850 Lampson Avenue

Seattle, WA

48,540

6,790

85,369

1,785

6,793

87,150

13,279



5300 24th Avenue NE

Seattle, WA

10,751

1,150

19,887

-

1,150

19,887




11039 17th Avenue

Sevenoaks, UKJ

-

7,387

48,012

-

7,387

48,012

7,643



64 - 70 Westerham Road

Shelburne, VT

19,540


31,041

1,490


32,495

5,171



687 Harbor Road

Shelby Township, MI

16,505

1,040

26,344


1,093

26,645

3,246



46471 Hayes Road

Shrewsbury, MA

-


26,824

-


26,824

1,566



3111 Main Street

Sidcup, UKI

-

9,773

56,163

10,008

8,873

67,071

11,712



Frognal Avenue

Simi Valley, CA

-

3,200

16,664


3,200

17,102

3,408



190 Tierra Rejada Road

Solihull, UKG

-

6,060

51,464

-

6,060

51,464

7,491



1270 Warwick Road

Solihull, UKG

-

4,269

30,963

-

4,269

30,963

4,631



1 Worcester Way

Sonning, UKJ

-

6,720

50,268

-

6,720

50,268

6,756



Old Bath Rd.

South Windsor, CT

-

3,000

29,295

1,405

3,099

30,601

6,608



432 Buckland Road

Spokane, WA

-

3,200

25,064


3,268

25,432

5,362



3117 E. Chaser Lane

Spokane, WA

-

2,580

25,342


2,639

25,494

4,242



1110 E. Westview Ct.

St. Albert, AB

8,775

1,145

17,863

-

1,145

17,863

3,231



78C McKenney Avenue

St. John's, NL

6,129


13,466

-


13,466




64 Portugal Cove Road

Stittsville, ON

4,791

1,175

17,397

-

1,175

17,397

2,206



1340 - 1354 Main Street

Stockport, UKD

-

5,222

29,674

-

5,222

29,674

4,999



1 Dairyground Road

Studio City, CA

-

4,006

25,307


4,040

25,835

4,246



4610 Coldwater Canyon Avenue

Sugar Land, TX

-


31,423

1,340


32,763

6,449



1221 Seventh St

Sun City, FL

21,693

6,521

48,476

-

6,521

48,476




231 Courtyards

Sun City, FL

24,442

5,040

50,923

-

5,040

50,923




1311 Aston Gardens Court

Sun City West, AZ

12,257

1,250

21,778


1,250

22,705

2,947



13810 West Sandridge Drive

Sunnyvale, CA

-

5,420

41,682


5,420

42,571

6,651



1039 East El Camino Real

Surrey, BC

7,128

3,605

18,818

-

3,605

18,818

4,276



16028 83rd Avenue

Surrey, BC

16,373

4,552

22,338

-

4,552

22,338

5,435



15501 16th Avenue

Suwanee, GA

-

1,560

11,538


1,560

12,142

2,103



4315 Johns Creek Parkway

Sway, UKJ

-

4,955

18,437

-

4,955

18,437

1,099



Sway Place

Swift Current, SK

2,343


10,119

-


10,119

1,513



301 Macoun Drive

Tacoma, WA

18,405

2,400

35,053


2,446

35,219

5,282



7290 Rosemount Circle

Tacoma, WA

-

1,535

6,068

-

1,535

6,068




7290 Rosemount Circle

Tampa, FL

69,330

4,910

114,148

-

4,910

114,148

1,144



12951 W Linebaugh Avenue

The Woodlands, TX

-


12,379



12,663

2,274



7950 Bay Branch Dr

Toledo, OH

-

2,040

47,129

2,716

2,144

49,741

10,566



3501 Executive Parkway

Toronto, ON

8,882

2,927

20,713

-

2,927

20,713




54 Foxbar Road

Toronto, ON

9,874

5,082

25,493

-

5,082

25,493

1,640



645 Castlefield Avenue

Toronto, ON

13,234

1,976

20,034

-

1,976

20,034

1,238



4251 Dundas Street West

Toronto, ON

20,785

5,132

41,657

-

5,132

41,657

2,494



10 William Morgan Drive

Toronto, ON

5,723

2,480

7,571

-

2,480

7,571




123 Spadina Road

Toronto, ON

1,499

1,079

5,364

-

1,079

5,364




25 Centennial Park Road

Toronto, ON

8,428

2,513

19,695

-

2,513

19,695

2,074



305 Balliol Street

Toronto, ON

18,600

3,400

32,757

-

3,400

32,757

5,095



1055 and 1057 Don Mills Road

Toronto, ON

1,120

1,361

2,915

-

1,361

2,915




3705 Bathurst Street

Toronto, ON

1,816

1,447

3,918

-

1,447

3,918




1340 York Mills Road

Toronto, ON

32,781

5,304

53,488

-

5,304

53,488

11,343



8 The Donway East

Trumbull, CT

24,245

2,850

37,685

1,229

2,927

38,837

8,103



2750 Reservoir Avenue

Tucson, AZ

4,615


6,179

3,497


9,676

1,113



5660 N. Kolb Road

Tulsa, OK

-

1,330

21,285

1,781

1,350

23,046

4,545



8887 South Lewis Ave

Tulsa, OK

-

1,500

20,861

1,550

1,551

22,360

4,840



9524 East 71st St

Tustin, CA

-


15,299



15,783

2,515



240 East 3rd St

Upland, CA

-

3,160

42,596

-

3,160

42,596

1,459



2419 North Euclid Avenue

Upper St Claire, PA

-

1,102

13,455


1,102

13,941

2,404



500 Village Drive

Vancouver, BC

15,361

24,122

42,675

-

24,122

42,675

2,776



2803 West 41st Avenue

Vankleek Hill, ON

1,077


2,960

-


2,960




48 Wall Street

Vaudreuil, QC

8,279

1,779

14,803

-

1,779

14,803




333 rue Querbes

Venice, FL

64,425

6,820

100,501

-

6,820

100,501

1,071



1000 Aston Gardens Drive

Victoria, BC

-

2,674

14,218

-

2,674

14,218

2,914



2638 Ross Lane

Victoria, BC

7,533

2,856

18,038

-

2,856

18,038

3,203



3000 Shelbourne Street

Victoria, BC

6,945

3,681

15,774

-

3,681

15,774

2,895



3051 Shelbourne Street

Victoria, BC

7,788

2,476

15,379

-

2,476

15,379




3965 Shelbourne Street

Virginia Water, UKJ

-

7,106

29,937

5,261

6,475

35,829

5,458



Christ Church Road

Walnut Creek, CA

-

3,700

12,467

1,108

3,763

13,512

2,649



2175 Ygnacio Valley Road

Waltham, MA

-

2,462

40,062

-

2,462

40,062

2,372



126 Smith Street

Warwick, RI

15,681

2,400

24,635

1,270

2,407

25,898

6,310



75 Minnesota Avenue

Washington, DC

32,108

4,000

69,154


4,000

69,893

9,085



5111 Connecticut Avenue NW

Waterbury, CT

24,305

2,460

39,547

1,954

2,495

41,465

11,430



180 Scott Road

Wayland, MA

-

1,207

27,462


1,307

28,344

3,901



285 Commonwealth Road

Welland, ON

6,662


8,971

-


8,971




110 First Street

Wellesley, MA

-

4,690

77,462

-

4,690

77,462

2,684



23 & 27 Washington Street

West Babylon, NY

-

3,960

47,085


3,960

47,634

5,641



580 Montauk Highway

West Bloomfield, MI

-

1,040

12,300


1,060

12,733

1,776



7005 Pontiac Trail

West Hills, CA

-

2,600

7,521


2,600

7,965

1,819



9012 Topanga Canyon Road

West Vancouver, BC

19,137

7,059

28,155

-

7,059

28,155

4,598



2095 Marine Drive

Westbourne, UKK

-

6,504

49,217

-

6,504

49,217

6,843



16-18 Poole Road

Westford, MA

-

1,440

32,607

-

1,440

32,607

1,117



108 Littleton Road

Weston, MA

-

1,160

6,200


1,160

6,734




135 North Avenue

Weybridge, UKJ

-

9,422

57,457

-

9,422

57,457

9,805



Ellesmere Road

Weymouth, UKK

-

3,097

19,712

-

3,097

19,712




Cross Road

White Oak, MD

-

2,304

24,768


2,316

25,754

3,085



11621 New Hampshire Avenue

Wilbraham, MA

10,976


17,639



18,345

3,368



2387 Boston Road

Wilmington, DE

-

1,040

23,338


1,040

23,802

3,256



2215 Shipley Street

Winchester, UKJ

-

7,182

35,044

-

7,182

35,044

5,526



Stockbridge Road

Winnipeg, MB

13,274

1,960

38,612

-

1,960

38,612

8,716



857 Wilkes Avenue

Winnipeg, MB

7,809

1,276

21,732

-

1,276

21,732

3,156



3161 Grant Avenue

Winnipeg, MB

8,310

1,317

15,609

-

1,317

15,609




125 Portsmouth Boulevard

Wolverhampton, UKG

-

3,510

10,409

-

3,510

10,409

2,422



73 Wergs Road

Woodbridge, CT

-

1,370

14,219


1,391

15,047

4,196



21 Bradley Road

Woodland Hills, CA

-

3,400

20,478


3,406

21,150

3,381



20461 Ventura Boulevard

Worcester, MA

13,751

1,140

21,664


1,156

22,431

4,109



340 May Street

Yarmouth, ME

17,128


27,711



28,489

4,848



27 Forest Falls Drive

Yonkers, NY

-

3,962

50,107


3,967

51,009

6,551



65 Crisfield Street

Yorkton, SK

3,389


8,765

-


8,763

1,283



94 Russell Drive

Seniors housing operating total

$

2,290,552

$

972,005

$

10,569,105

$

446,629

$

994,865

$

10,992,868

$

1,463,201



Welltower Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and
  Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2015

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount at Which
  Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Building &
  Improvements

Cost Capitalized
  Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Building &
  Improvements

Accumulated Depreciation

(1)

Year Acquired

Year Built

Address

Outpatient medical:

Akron, OH

$

-

$


$

12,105

$

-

$


$

12,105

$

1,568



701 White Pond Drive

Allen, TX

12,080


14,196



14,511

3,024



1105 N Central Expressway

Alpharetta, GA

-


18,902



19,133

3,859



3400-A Old Milton Parkway

Alpharetta, GA

-

1,769

36,152

-

1,769

36,152

8,518



3400-C Old Milton Parkway

Alpharetta, GA

-


14,757



14,770

3,156



11975 Morris Road

Alpharetta, GA

-

1,862

-

-

1,862

-

-



940 North Point Parkway

Alpharetta, GA

-


17,103



17,142

4,469



3300 Old Milton Parkway

Arcadia, CA

-

5,408

23,219

2,971

5,618

25,980

7,917



301 W. Huntington Drive

Arlington, TX

-


18,243



18,491

1,094



902 W. Randol Mill Road

Atlanta, GA

-

4,931

18,720

4,679

5,301

23,029

8,357



755 Mt. Vernon Hwy.

Atlanta, GA

-

1,947

24,248

1,143

1,947

25,391

4,258



975 Johnson Ferry Road

Atlanta, GA

25,726

-

43,425


-

43,908

9,347



5670 Peachtree-Dunwoody Road

Bardstown, KY

2,001

-

-

8,239


7,966




4359 New Shepherdsville Rd

Bartlett, TN

7,719


15,015

1,632


16,647

5,193



2996 Kate Bond Rd.

Bellevue, NE

-

-

16,680

-

-

16,680

3,408



2510 Bellevue Medical Center Drive

Bettendorf, IA

-

-

7,110


-

7,183




2140 53rd Avenue

Beverly Hills, CA

-

20,766

40,730

-

20,766

40,730

1,051



9675 Brighton Way

Beverly Hills, CA

-

18,863

1,192

-

18,863

1,192




415 North Bedford

Beverly Hills, CA

-

19,863

31,690

-

19,863

31,690




416 North Bedford

Beverly Hills, CA

33,729

32,603

28,639

-

32,603

28,639

1,119



435 North Bedford

Beverly Hills, CA

78,271

52,772

88,693

-

52,772

88,693

2,116



436 North Bedford

Birmingham, AL

-


10,201

3,208


13,409

4,743



801 Princeton Avenue SW

Birmingham, AL

-


11,733

-


11,733

3,070



817 Princeton Avenue SW

Birmingham, AL

-


18,726

-


18,726

5,068



833 Princeton Avenue SW

Boardman, OH

-


12,161

-


12,161

3,128



8423 Market St

Boca Raton, FL

-


34,002

2,423


36,320

11,052



9970 S. Central Park Blvd.

Boca Raton, FL

-


12,312



12,367

2,004



9960 S. Central Park Boulevard

Boerne, TX

-


13,541



13,731

3,173



134 Menger Springs Road

Boynton Beach, FL

-

2,048

7,692


2,048

8,307

3,059



8188 Jog Rd.

Boynton Beach, FL

-

2,048

7,403

1,238

2,048

8,640

2,937



8200 Jog Road

Boynton Beach, FL

-


5,611

8,079


13,634

4,162



10075 Jog Rd.

Boynton Beach, FL

25,708

13,324

40,369


13,324

41,141

5,217



10301 Hagen Ranch Road

Bradenton, FL

-

1,184

9,799

-

1,184

9,799




315 75th Street West

Bradenton, FL

-

1,035

4,298

-

1,035

4,298




7005 Cortez Road West

Bridgeton, MO

10,294


21,272



21,292

5,105



12266 DePaul Dr

Burleson, TX

-


12,611



12,614

2,484



12001 South Freeway

Burnsville, MN

-

-

31,596

-

-

31,596

2,339



14101 Fairview Dr

Carmel, IN

-

2,280

19,238


2,280

19,301

5,488



12188-A North Meridian Street

Carmel, IN

-

2,026

21,559


2,026

21,570

6,368



12188-B North Meridian Street

Castle Rock, CO

-


13,004



13,576

1,012



2352 Meadows Boulevard

Cedar Grove, WI

-



-






313 S. Main St.

Charleston, SC

-

2,773

25,928


2,773

25,931

1,794



325 Folly Road

Cincinnati, OH

-

-

17,880


-

18,098

1,454



3301 Mercy West Boulevard

Claremore, OK

7,732


12,829



13,236

4,399



1501 N. Florence Ave.

Clarkson Valley, MO

-

-

35,592

-

-

35,592

8,269



15945 Clayton Rd

Clear Lake, TX

-

-

13,882

-

-

13,882




1010 South Ponds Drive

Columbia, MD

-

2,333

19,232

-

2,333

19,232

2,576



10700 Charter Drive

Columbia, MD

-

-

34,930

-

-

34,930




5450 & 5500 Knoll N Drive

Coon Rapids, MN

-

-

26,679


-

27,409

2,007



11850 Blackfoot Street NW

Dade City, FL

-

1,211

5,511

-

1,211

5,511




13413 US Hwy 301

Dallas, TX

-


28,690

2,535


31,225

10,073



9330 Poppy Dr.

Dallas, TX

28,450


52,488



52,491

6,735



7115 Greenville Avenue

Dayton, OH

-


6,919

-


6,919

1,747



1530 Needmore Road

Deerfield Beach, FL

-

2,408

7,809


2,408

7,812

2,555



1192 East Newport Center Drive

Delray Beach, FL

-

1,882

34,767

5,693

2,064

40,278

14,345



5130-5150 Linton Blvd.

Durham, NC

-

1,212

22,858


1,212

22,859

1,583



1823 Hillandale Road

Edina, MN

-


15,132



15,149

3,181



8100 W 78th St

El Paso, TX

-


17,075

2,089


19,164

6,931



2400 Trawood Dr.

Everett, WA

-

4,842

26,010

-

4,842

26,010

4,804



13020 Meridian Ave. S.

Fenton, MO

11,578


27,485



27,727

3,199



1011 Bowles Avenue

Fenton, MO

5,544


13,911

-


13,911

1,110



1055 Bowles Avenue

Flower Mound, TX

-


9,654

-


9,654




2560 Central Park Avenue

Flower Mound, TX

-

4,164

27,529


4,164

27,543

1,857



4370 Medical Arts Drive

Flower Mound, TX

-

4,620

-

-

4,620

-

-



Medical Arts Drive

Fort Wayne, IN

16,135

1,105

22,836

-

1,105

22,836

2,898



7916 Jefferson Boulevard

Fort Worth, TX

-


26,020

-


26,020

1,592



10840 Texas Health Trail

Fort Worth, TX

-


6,099

-


6,099




7200 Oakmont Boulevard

Franklin, TN

-

2,338

12,138

2,184

2,338

14,322

4,398



100 Covey Drive

Franklin, WI

4,942

6,872

7,550

-

6,872

7,550

1,687



9200 W. Loomis Rd.

Frisco, TX

-

-

18,635

1,340

-

19,975

5,794



4401 Coit Road

Frisco, TX

-

-

15,309

2,151

-

17,460

5,914



4461 Coit Road

Gallatin, TN

-


21,801



21,984

5,521



300 Steam Plant Rd

Gig Harbor, WA

-

-

-

30,917


30,837




11511 Canterwood Blvd NW

Glendale, CA

-


18,398



19,159

5,230



222 W. Eulalia St.

Grand Prairie, TX

-


6,086

-


6,086

1,187



2740 N State Hwy 360

Grapevine, TX

5,459

-

5,943

4,778

2,081

8,640




2040 W State Hwy 114

Grapevine, TX

9,882

3,365

15,669

-

3,365

15,669

1,085



2020 W State Hwy 114

Green Bay, WI

6,871

-

14,891

-

-

14,891

2,939



2253 W. Mason St.

Green Bay, WI

-

-

20,098

-

-

20,098

3,891



2845 Greenbrier Road

Green Bay, WI

-

-

11,696

-

-

11,696

3,145



2845 Greenbrier Road

Greeneville, TN

-


10,104

-


10,104

2,403



438 East Vann Rd

Greenwood, IN

-

8,316

26,384

-

8,316

26,384

3,705



1260 Innovation Parkway

Greenwood, IN

-

1,262

7,045


1,262

7,691




333 E County Line Road

Grenwood, IN

-

2,098

21,538


2,098

21,538

1,006



3000 S State Road 135

Harker Heights, TX

-

1,907

3,575

-

1,907

3,575




E Central Texas Expressway

High Point, NC

-

2,659

29,069


2,659

29,230

3,398



4515 Premier Drive

Highland, IL

-

-

8,834

-

-

8,834




12860 Troxler Avenue

Houston, TX

14,000


31,932



32,248

6,083



18100 St John Drive

Houston, TX

-


10,613

-


10,613

1,912



2060 Space Park Drive

Houston, TX

-

10,403

-

-

10,403

-




15655 Cypress Woods Medical Drive

Houston, TX

-

5,837

33,128


5,837

33,129

6,385



15655 Cypress Woods Medical Drive

Houston, TX

-

3,688

13,313


3,688

13,315

1,845



10701 Vintage Preserve Parkway

Houston, TX

-

-

-

75,398

12,815

62,584

6,206



2727 W Holcombe Boulevard

Houston, TX

-

3,102

32,323


3,242

32,824

2,289



1900 N Loop W Freeway

Hudson, OH

-

2,587

13,720


2,587

13,728

2,546



5655 Hudson Drive

Humble, TX

-

-

9,941

-

-

9,941




8233 N. Sam Houston Parkway E.

Jackson, MI

-


17,367



17,389

2,033



1201 E Michigan Avenue

Jupiter, FL

-

2,252

11,415

2,375

2,252

13,790

3,826



550 Heritage Dr.

Jupiter, FL

-

2,825

5,858


2,825

6,424

2,288



600 Heritage Dr.

Kenosha, WI

7,494

-

18,058

-

-

18,058

3,488



10400 75th St.

Killeen, TX

-


22,878



22,898

4,986



2405 Clear Creek Rd

Kyle, TX

-

2,569

14,384


2,569

14,468

1,038



135 Bunton Road

La Jolla, CA

-

12,855

32,658

-

12,855

32,658




4150 Regents Park Row

La Jolla, CA

-

9,425

26,904

-

9,425

26,904




4120 & 4130 La Jolla Village Drive

La Quinta, CA

-

3,266

22,066


3,279

22,169

1,599



47647 Caleo Bay Drive

Lake St Louis, MO

-


14,249



14,298

3,342



400 Medical Dr

Lakeway, TX

-

2,801

-

-

2,801

-

-



Lohmans Crossing Road

Lakewood, CA

-


14,885

1,709


16,594

4,743



5750 Downey Ave.

Lakewood, WA

7,041


16,017

-


16,017

1,873



11307 Bridgeport Way SW

Las Vegas, NV

-

2,319

4,612

1,021

2,319

5,632

1,988



2870 S. Maryland Pkwy.

Las Vegas, NV

-


15,287

1,150


16,437

4,969



1815 E. Lake Mead Blvd.

Las Vegas, NV

-


6,921



7,133

2,464



1776 E. Warm Springs Rd.

Las Vegas, NV

-

6,127

-


6,127


-



SW corner of Deer Springs Way and Riley Street

Lenexa, KS

-


17,926



18,182

3,270



23401 Prairie Star Pkwy

Lenexa, KS

-


14,058

-


14,058




23351 Prairie Star Parkway

Lincoln, NE

-

1,420

29,723


1,420

29,748

7,625



575 South 70th St

Los Alamitos, CA

-


18,635

1,218


19,853

5,625



3771 Katella Ave.

Los Gatos, CA

-


22,386

1,740


24,126

8,383



555 Knowles Dr.

Loxahatchee, FL

-

1,637

5,048


1,719

5,951

2,009



12977 Southern Blvd.

Loxahatchee, FL

-

1,340

6,509


1,440

7,033

2,279



12989 Southern Blvd.

Loxahatchee, FL

-

1,553

4,694

1,018

1,650

5,615

1,791



12983 Southern Blvd.

Marinette, WI

6,036

-

13,538

-

-

13,538

3,146



4061 Old Peshtigo Rd.

Melbourne, FL

-

3,439

50,461


3,439

50,718

3,039



2222 South Harbor City Boulevard

Merced, CA

-

-

14,699


-

14,704

3,274



315 Mercy Ave.

Merriam, KS

-


8,005

8,558


15,965

2,094



8800 West 75th Street

Merriam, KS

-

-

1,996

-

-

1,996




7301 Frontage Street

Merriam, KS

-

-

10,222

-

-

10,222

4,121



8901 West 74th Street

Merriam, KS

-

-

5,862

-

-

5,862

2,059



9119 West 74th Street

Merriam, KS

-

1,226

24,998

-

1,226

24,998

2,449



9301 West 74th Street

Merrillville, IN

-

-

22,134


-

22,766

5,023



101 E. 87th Ave.

Mesa, AZ

-

1,558

9,561


1,558

10,190

3,461



6424 East Broadway Road

Mesquite, TX

-


3,834

-


3,834




1575 I-30

Milwaukee, WI

2,569


8,457

-


8,457

1,767



1218 W. Kilbourn Ave.

Milwaukee, WI

8,962

1,425

11,520

-

1,425

11,520

3,138



3301-3355 W. Forest Home Ave.

Milwaukee, WI

2,242


2,185

-


2,185




840 N. 12th St.

Milwaukee, WI

17,365

-

44,535

-

-

44,535

8,415



2801 W. Kinnickinnic Pkwy.

Mission Hills, CA

25,247

-

42,276

1,090

4,791

38,575

2,886



11550 Indian Hills Road

Moline, IL

-

-

8,783


-

8,812




3900 28th Avenue Drive

Monticello, MN

8,464


18,489



18,510

1,986



1001 Hart Boulevard

Moorestown, NJ

-


50,896

-


50,896

6,324



401  Young Avenue

Mount Juliet, TN

3,016

1,566

11,697

1,118

1,566

12,815

4,326



5002 Crossings Circle

Mount Vernon, IL

-

-

24,892

-

-

24,892

3,195



4121 Veterans Memorial Dr

Murrieta, CA

-

-

47,190


-

47,676

11,011



28078 Baxter Rd.

Murrieta, CA

-

3,800

-

-

3,800

-

-



28078 Baxter Rd.

Muskego, WI

1,078


2,159

-


2,159




S74 W16775 Janesville Rd.

Nashville, TN

-

1,806

7,165

2,036

1,806

9,201

3,416



310 25th Ave. N.

New Albany, IN

-

2,411

16,494


2,411

16,524




2210 Green Valley Road

New Berlin, WI

4,156

3,739

8,290

-

3,739

8,290

1,737



14555 W. National Ave.

Niagara Falls, NY

-

1,433

10,891


1,597

10,998

4,302



6932 - 6934 Williams Rd

Niagara Falls, NY

-


8,362

-


8,362

2,358



6930 Williams Rd

Oklahoma City, OK

-


19,135



19,212

2,553



535 NW 9th Street

Oro Valley, AZ

9,395


18,339



19,084

5,423



1521 E. Tangerine Rd.

Oshkosh, WI

-

-

18,339

-

-

18,339

3,515



855 North Wethaven Dr.

Oshkosh, WI

7,467

-

15,881

-

-

15,881

3,012



855 North Wethaven Dr.

Palm Springs, FL

-


4,066



4,560

1,732



1640 S. Congress Ave.

Palm Springs, FL

-

1,182

7,765


1,182

8,328

2,978



1630 S. Congress Ave.

Palmer, AK

18,345


29,705

1,220


30,925

8,475



2490 South Woodworth Loop

Pasadena, TX

-

1,700

8,009

-

1,700

8,009




5001 E Sam Houston Parkway S

Pearland, TX

-

1,500

11,253

-

1,500

11,253




2515 Business Center Drive

Pearland, TX

-

9,594

32,753


9,807

32,731

1,337



11511 Shadow Creek Parkway

Pendleton, OR

-

-

10,312

-

-

10,312




3001 St. Anthony Drive

Phoenix, AZ

-

1,149

48,018

11,069

1,149

59,087

18,292



2222 E. Highland Ave.

Pineville, NC

-


6,974

2,515

1,077

9,373

3,343



10512 Park Rd.

Plano, TX

-

5,423

20,698

-

5,423

20,698

9,178



6957 Plano Parkway

Plano, TX

52,479


83,209



83,787

13,469



6020 West Parker Road

Plantation, FL

-

8,563

10,666

3,169

8,575

13,823

5,716



851-865 SW 78th Ave.

Plantation, FL

-

8,848

9,262


8,908

9,789

5,824



600 Pine Island Rd.

Plymouth, WI

1,258

1,250

1,870

-

1,250

1,870




2636 Eastern Ave.

Portland, ME

-


25,930



25,943

4,949



195 Fore River Parkway

Redmond, WA

-

5,015

26,709


5,015

26,993

5,122



18000 NE Union Hill Rd.

Reno, NV

-

1,117

21,972

1,999

1,117

23,970

7,123



343 Elm St.

Richmond, VA

-

2,969

26,697


3,004

26,722

4,413



7001 Forest Avenue

Rockwall, TX

-


17,197



17,200

2,862



3142 Horizon Road

Rogers, AR

-

1,062

29,326

-

1,062

29,326

6,007



2708 Rife Medical Lane

Rolla, MO

-

1,931

47,639

-

1,931

47,639

7,480



1605 Martin Spring Drive

Roswell, NM

-


5,851

-


5,851

1,116



601 West Country Club Road

Roswell, NM

4,049


15,984

-


15,984

2,720



350 West Country Club Road

Roswell, NM

-


17,171



17,171

2,333



300 West Country Club Road

Sacramento, CA

-


12,756

1,715


14,471

4,491



8120 Timberlake Way

Salem, NH

-

1,655

14,050


1,655

14,070

1,052



31 Stiles Road

San Antonio, TX

-

1,012

10,545


1,012

11,284

4,482



19016 Stone Oak Pkwy.

San Antonio, TX

-

1,038

9,173

-

1,038

9,173

3,565



540 Stone Oak Centre Drive

San Antonio, TX

18,400

4,518

31,041


4,548

31,373

6,536



5282 Medical Drive

San Antonio, TX

-


17,288



17,591

1,726



3903 Wiseman Boulevard

Santa Clarita, CA

-

-

2,338

19,664

5,196

16,806

1,125



23861 McBean Parkway

Santa Clarita, CA

-

-

28,384

1,580

5,250

24,714

1,705



23929 McBean Parkway

Santa Clarita, CA

-



-






23871 McBean Parkway

Santa Clarita, CA

25,000


40,262

-


40,262

1,525



23803 McBean Parkway

Santa Clarita, CA

-

-

20,618


4,407

16,518

1,219



24355 Lyons Avenue

Santa Clarita, CA

-

9,835

-

1,760

11,595

-

-



23861 McBean Parkway

Sarasota, FL

-


47,325



48,190

6,807



1921 Waldemere Street

Seattle, WA

-

4,410

38,428


4,410

38,786

8,479



5350 Tallman Ave

Sewell, NJ

-


57,929



58,223

16,141



239 Hurffville-Cross Keys Road

Shakopee, MN

6,350


11,412



11,447

2,701



1515 St Francis Ave

Shakopee, MN

10,739


18,089



18,089

3,142



1601 St Francis Ave

Sheboygan, WI

1,737

1,012

2,216

-

1,012

2,216




1813 Ashland Ave.

Shenandoah, TX

-

-

21,135

-

-

21,135




106 Vision Park Boulevard

Sherman Oaks, CA

-

-

32,186

1,902

3,121

30,967

2,097



4955 Van Nuys Boulevard

Somerville, NJ

-

3,400

22,244


3,400

22,246

4,125



30 Rehill Avenue

Southlake, TX

11,680


18,243



18,392

2,896



1545 East Southlake Boulevard

Southlake, TX

17,800


30,549

1,709


32,258

4,276



1545 East Southlake Boulevard

Southlake, TX

-

3,000

-

-

3,000

-

-



Central Avenue

Springfield, IL

5,273

-

-

11,919

1,569

10,350




1100 East Lincolnshire Blvd

Springfield, IL

1,650

-

-

3,696


3,519




2801 Mathers Rd

St Paul, MN

-


37,695



37,978

1,465



225 Smith Avenue N.

St. Louis, MO

-


17,247

1,119


18,366

5,550



2325 Dougherty Rd.

St. Paul, MN

24,781

2,706

39,507


2,704

39,523

7,500



435 Phalen Boulevard

Suffern, NY

-


37,255



37,342

6,695



255 Lafayette Avenue

Suffolk, VA

-

1,566

11,511


1,566

11,537

3,326



5838 Harbour View Blvd.

Sugar Land, TX

8,305

3,543

15,532

-

3,543

15,532

2,643



11555 University Boulevard

Summit, WI

-

2,899

87,666

-

2,899

87,666

22,984



36500 Aurora Dr.

Tacoma, WA

-

-

64,307

-

-

64,307

8,481



1608 South J Street

Tallahassee, FL

-

-

17,449

-

-

17,449

3,575



One Healing Place

Tampa, FL

-

4,318

12,228

-

4,318

12,222

1,672



14547 Bruce B Downs Blvd

Temple, TX

-

2,900

9,954


2,900

9,980




2601 Thornton Lane

Tucson, AZ

-

1,302

4,925


1,325

5,749

2,170



2055 W. Hospital Dr.

Tustin, CA

-

3,345

2,171

-

3,345

2,171




14591 Newport Ave

Tustin, CA

-

3,361

12,039

-

3,361

12,039




14642 Newport Ave

Van Nuys, CA

-

-

36,187

-

-

36,187

6,561



6815 Noble Ave.

Voorhees, NJ

-

6,404

24,251

1,471

6,477

25,649

7,515



900 Centennial Blvd.

Voorhees, NJ

-


96,075



96,152

13,977



200 Bowman Drive

Wellington, FL

-


16,933

2,587


19,325

4,967



10115 Forest Hill Blvd.

Wellington, FL

-


13,697



14,622

3,832



1395 State Rd. 7

West Allis, WI

3,190

1,106

3,309

-

1,106

3,309




11333 W. National Ave.

West Seneca, NY

-


22,435

2,623

1,665

24,310

7,547



550 Orchard Park Rd

Zephyrhills, FL

-

3,875

27,270

-

3,875

27,270

4,063



38135 Market Square Dr

Outpatient medical total:

$

627,689

$

490,437

$

4,274,941

$

278,333

$

535,720

$

4,507,983

$

794,063


Assets held for sale:

Akron, OH

$

-

$


$

20,200

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-



200 E. Market St.

Amelia Island, FL

-

3,290

24,310

-

-

-

-



48 Osprey Village Dr.

Austin, TX

-


18,970

-

-

-

-



3200 W. Slaughter Lane

Baytown, TX

-


6,150

-

-

-

-



3921 N. Main St.

Baytown, TX

-


11,110

-

-

-

-



2000 West Baker Lane

Bellaire, TX

-

4,551

46,105

-

-

-

-



5410 W. Loop S.

Bellaire, TX

-

2,972

33,445

-

-

-

-



5420 W. Loop S.

Bellevue, WI

-

1,740

18,260

-

-

-

-



1660 Hoffman Rd.

Bellingham, MA

-

9,270

-

-

-

2,156

-



Maple Street and High Street

Bridgeton, MO

-

-

30,221

-

-

-

-



12380 DePaul Drive

Brookline, MA

-

2,760

9,217

-

-

-

-



30 Webster Street

Columbus, OH

-

-

-

6,710

-

6,710

-



750 Mt. Carmel Mall

Coral Springs, FL

-

1,598

10,627

-

-

9,246

-



1725 N. University Dr.

Corpus Christi, TX

-


1,916

-

-

-

-



1101 S. Alameda

DeForest, WI

-


5,350

-

-

-

-



6902 Parkside Circle

Denton, TX

-

-

19,407

-

-

-

-



2900 North I-35

Denver, CO

-

2,530

9,514

-

-

-

-



3701 W. Radcliffe Ave.

Fayetteville, GA

-


7,540

-

-

6,733

-



1275 Hwy. 54 W.

Frisco, TX

-


16,445

-

-

-

-



2990 Legacy Drive

Germantown, TN

-

3,049

12,456

-

-

12,202

-



1325 Wolf Park Drive

Grand Blanc, MI

-


7,843

-

-

-

-



5400 East Baldwin

Greenfield, WI

-


6,626

-

-

-

-



3933 S. Prairie Hill Lane

Greenville, SC

-

5,400

100,523

-

-

-

-



10 Fountainview Terrace

Hattiesburg, MS

-


15,518

-

-

14,089

-



217 Methodist Hospital Blvd

Hermitage, TN

-

1,500

9,856

-

-

10,213

-



4131 Andrew Jackson Parkway

Houston, TX

-


18,715

-

-

-

-



8702 South Course Drive

Houston, TX

-


5,970

-

-

-

-



3625 Green Crest Dr.

Kenosha, WI

-

1,500

9,139

-

-

-

-



6300 67th Street

Lapeer, MI

-


7,625

-

-

-

-



2323 Demille Road

McHenry, IL

-

3,550

15,300

-

-

-

-



3300 Charles Miller Rd.

Melbourne, FL

-

2,540

21,319

-

-

-

-



3260 N Harbor City Blvd

Memphis, TN

-


9,660

-

-

-

-



141 N. McLean Blvd.

Merrillville, IN

-

1,080

3,413

-

-

-

-



300 W. 89th Ave.

Merrillville, IN

-


7,084

-

-

-

-



101 W. 87th Ave.

Millersville, MD

-


1,020

-

-


-



899 Cecil Avenue

Morrow, GA

-


8,064

-

-

5,913

-



6635 Lake Drive

Mount Airy, NC

-


6,430

-

-

-

-



1000 Ridgecrest Lane

Murrieta, CA

-

8,800

202,412

-

-

-

-



28062 Baxter Road

Myrtle Beach, SC

-

6,890

41,526

-

-

-

-



101 Brightwater Dr.

Neenah, WI

-


15,120

-

-

-

-



131 E. North Water St.

Orange Village, OH

-


7,419

-

-

6,096

-



3755 Orange Place

Oshkosh, WI

-


3,800

-

-

-

-



711 Bayshore Drive

Oshkosh, WI

-


23,237

-

-

-

-



631 Hazel Street

Overland Park, KS

-

1,120

8,360

-

-

-

-



7541 Switzer St.

Panama City Beach, FL

-


7,717

-

-

7,716

-



6012 Magnolia Beach Road

Pasadena, TX

-


24,080

-

-

-

-



3434 Watters Rd.

Pawleys Island, SC

-

2,020

32,590

-

-

-

-



120 Lakes at Litchfield Dr.

Saint Simons Island, GA

-

6,440

50,060

-

-

-

-



136 Marsh's Edge Lane

San Antonio, TX

-


7,315

-

-

-

-



5437 Eisenhaur Rd.

San Antonio, TX

-


13,360

-

-

-

-



8503 Mystic Park

Scituate, MA

-

1,740

10,640

-

-

-

-



309 Driftway

Sheboygan, WI

-


5,320

-

-

-

-



4221 Kadlec Dr.

Silver Spring, MD

-

1,150

9,252

-

-

-

-



12325 New Hampshire

Spartanburg, SC

-

3,350

15,750

-

-

-

-



110 Summit Hills Dr.

St. Louis, MO

-

1,890

12,165

-

-

12,472

-



6543 Chippewa St

Tampa, FL

-

-

-

17,685

-

17,685

-



3000 Medical Park Drive

Thomasville, GA

-


13,899

-

-

13,193

-



423 Covington Avenue

Tucson, AZ

-


13,399

-

-

-

-



6211 N. La Cholla Blvd.

Virginia Beach, VA

-

-

-

16,555

-

16,555

-



828 Healthy Way

Waukesha, WI

-

1,100

14,910

-

-

-

-



3217 Fiddlers Creek Dr

Webster, TX

-


5,940

-

-

-

-



17231 Mill Forest

West Palm Beach, FL

-


14,740

-

-

10,762

-



5325 Greenwood Ave.

West Palm Beach, FL

-


14,618

-

-

10,575

-



927 45th St.

Westerville, OH

-

-

-

6,954

-

6,954

-



444 N Cleveland Avenue

Winston-Salem, NC

$

-

$

5,700

$

13,550

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-



2101 Homestead Hills

Assets held for sale total

$

-

$

106,048

$

1,136,527

$

47,904

$

-

$

169,950

-


Summary:

Triple-net

$

554,014

$

1,003,748

$

10,800,837

$

600,549

$

1,032,860

$

11,372,276

$

1,539,033

Seniors housing operating

2,290,552

972,005

10,569,105

446,629

994,865

10,992,868

1,463,201

Outpatient medical

627,689

490,437

4,274,941

278,333

535,720

4,507,983

794,063

Construction in progress

-

-

258,968

-

-

258,968

-

Total continuing operating properties

3,472,255

2,466,190

25,903,851

1,325,511

2,563,445

27,132,095

3,796,297

Assets held for sale

-

106,048

1,136,527

47,904

-

169,950

-

Total investments in real property owned

$

3,472,255

$

2,572,238

$

27,040,378

$

1,373,415

$

2,563,445

$

27,302,045

$

3,796,297

(1) Please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements
  for information regarding lives used for depreciation and amortization.

(2) Represents real property asset associated with a capital
  lease.


Year
  Ended December 31,




Reconciliation of real property:

(in
  thousands)

Investment in real estate:

Balance at beginning of year

$

25,491,935

$

23,734,733

$

18,082,399

Additions:

Acquisitions

3,364,891

2,210,600

3,597,955

Improvements

445,625

380,298

408,844

Assumed other items, net

389,256

160,897

772,972

Assumed debt

1,064,810

265,152

1,340,939

Total additions

5,264,582

3,016,947

6,120,710

Deductions:

Cost of real estate sold

(449,932)

(916,997)

(498,564)

Reclassification of accumulated depreciation and amortization
  for assets held for sale

(41,464)

(64,476)

(3,730)

Impairment of assets

(2,220)

-

-

Total deductions

(493,616)

(981,473)

(502,294)

Foreign currency translation

(397,411)

(278,272)

33,918

Balance at end of year

(1)

$

29,865,490

$

25,491,935

$

23,734,733

Accumulated depreciation:

Balance at beginning of year

$

3,020,908

$

2,386,658

$

1,555,055

Additions:

Depreciation and amortization expenses

826,240

844,130

873,960

Amortization of above market leases

11,912

7,935

7,831

Total additions

838,152

852,065

881,791

Deductions:

Sale of properties

(69,735)

(123,582)

(49,625)

Reclassification of accumulated depreciation and amortization
  for assets held for sale

(41,464)

(64,476)

(3,730)

Total deductions

(111,199)

(188,058)

(53,355)

Foreign currency translation

48,436

(29,757)

3,167

Balance at end of year

$

3,796,297

$

3,020,908

$

2,386,658

(1) The aggregate
  cost for tax purposes for real property equals $19,159,762,000,
  $21,621,760,000, and $20,260,297,000 at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013,
  respectively.


Welltower Inc.

Schedule
  IV - Mortgage Loans on Real Estate

December
  31, 2015

(in
  thousands)

Location

Segment

Interest
  Rate

Final
  Maturity Date

Monthly
  Payment Terms

Prior
  Liens

Face
  Amount of Mortgages

Carrying
  Amount of Mortgages

Principal
  Amount of Loans Subject to Delinquent Principal or Interest

First mortgages relating to 1 property
  located in:

California

Outpatient Medical

6.08%

12/22/17

$

309,681

$

-

$

65,000

$

60,902

$

-

United Kingdom

Triple-Net

7.00%

04/19/18

127,412

-

21,382

21,382

-

United Kingdom

Triple-Net

7.00%

11/21/18

121,437

-

20,497

20,497

-

Massachusetts

Triple-Net

7.86%

12/31/16

35,434

-

21,000

5,316

-

United Kingdom

Triple-Net

7.00%

12/31/19

55,858

-

27,133

9,737

-

United Kingdom

Triple-Net

8.25%

06/11/19

14,973

-

15,262

2,216

-

United Kingdom

Triple-Net

8.00%

07/31/19

4,737

-

22,119

1,629

-

United Kingdom

Triple-Net

8.50%

05/01/16

39,496

-

9,721

6,429

-

United Kingdom

Triple-Net

7.54%

07/31/15

9,437

-

3,097

1,474

-

Oklahoma

Triple-Net

8.42%

10/28/19

59,007

-

11,610

8,719

-

Oregon

Triple-Net

7.10%

05/01/16

1,357

-



-

Pennsylvania

Triple-Net

7.10%

03/01/16

1,479

-



-

Texas

Triple-Net

8.00%

02/28/21

53,507

-

7,875

7,875

-

First mortgage relating to multiple
  properties:

Four properties in the United Kingdom

Triple-Net

7.50%

11/30/19

$

85,135

$

-

$

13,742

$

13,409

$

-

49 properties in seven states

Triple-Net

9.75%

02/28/17

2,589,041

-

360,000

305,833

-

15 properties in eight states

Triple-Net

8.00%

11/30/17

440,877

-

171,090

134,100

-

Second mortgages relating to 1
  property located in:

Connecticut

Triple-Net

8.11%

04/01/18

$

39,658

$

16,009

$

5,961

$

5,961

$

-

Texas

Triple-Net

12.17%

05/01/19

31,009

11,489

3,100

3,100

-

Florida

Triple-Net

12.17%

07/01/18

27,008

9,283

2,700

2,700

-

Florida

Triple-Net

12.17%

11/01/18

27,008

11,654

2,700

2,700

-

Indiana

Triple-Net

10.50%

04/01/19

25,264

11,211

2,887

2,887

-

Indiana

Triple-Net

10.50%

04/01/19

17,320

8,202

1,979

1,979

-

Kansas

Triple-Net

10.50%

09/19/19

15,403

1,228

1,760

1,760

-

Texas

Triple-Net

10.50%

11/01/19

17,123

-

1,957

1,957

-

Second mortgage relating to multiple
  properties:

Five properties in three states

Triple-Net

10.00%

12/30/18

$

212,329

$

51,467

$

25,000

$

12,455

$

-

Totals

$

120,543

$

818,047

$

635,492

$

-

Year
  Ended December 31,




Reconciliation of mortgage loans:

(in
  thousands)

Balance at beginning of year

$

188,651

$

146,987

$

87,955

Additions:

New mortgage loans

524,088

113,996

68,530

Draws on existing loans

30,550

26,330

-

Total additions

554,638

140,326

68,530

Deductions:

Collections of principal

(80,552)

(49,974)

(8,790)

Conversions to real property

(23,288)

(45,836)

-

Charge-offs

-

-

(2,110)

Total deductions

(103,840)

(95,810)

(10,900)

Change in balance due to foreign currency translation

(3,957)

(2,852)

1,402

Balance at end of year

$

635,492

$

188,651

$

146,987


EXHIBIT INDEX

1.1(a)     Form
of Equity Distribution Agreement, dated as of November 12, 2010, entered into
by and between the Company and each of UBS Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc.,
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc. (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 1.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 15,
2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

1.1(b)     Form
of Amendment No. 1, dated September 1, 2011, to the Equity Distribution
Agreements entered into by and between the Company and each of UBS Securities
LLC, RBS Securities Inc., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Credit Agricole
Securities (USA) Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 1.1 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed September 8, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

1.1(c)      Form
of Amendment No. 2, dated August 5, 2015, to the Equity Distribution Agreements
entered into by and between the Company and each of UBS Securities LLC, KeyBanc
Capital Markets Inc. and Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 1.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed August 5, 2015 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(a)     Second
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(b)     Certificate
of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed
March 20, 2000 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

3.1(c)      Certificate
of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed June
13, 2003 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(d)     Certificate
of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.9 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
August 9, 2007 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

3.1(e)      Certificate
of Change of Location of Registered Office and of Registered Agent of the
Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q
filed August 6, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

3.1(f)      Certificate
of Designation of 6.50% Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred
Stock of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s
Form 8-K filed March 7, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

3.1(g)
     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation
of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed May 10, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

3.1(h)     Certificate
of Designation of 6.50% Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of the
Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K
filed March 8, 2012 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

3.1(i)       Certificate
of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May
6, 2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


3.1(j)      Certificate of Amendment of
Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 30, 2015
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.2          Fifth
Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed October 30, 2015 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(a)     Indenture
for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company
and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s
Form 8-K filed September 9, 2002 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein
by reference thereto).

4.1(b)     Supplemental
Indenture No. 1, dated as of September 6, 2002, to Indenture for Senior Debt
Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third
Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
September 9, 2002 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

4.1(c)      Amendment
No. 1, dated March 12, 2003, to Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of
September 6, 2002, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of
September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 14, 2003 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(d)     Supplemental
Indenture No. 2, dated as of September 10, 2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt
Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third
Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
September 24, 2003 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

4.1(e)      Amendment
No. 1, dated September 16, 2003, to Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of
September 10, 2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of
September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.4 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 24, 2003
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(f)      Supplemental
Indenture No. 3, dated as of October 29, 2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt
Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third
Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
October 30, 2003 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

4.1(g)      Amendment
No. 1, dated September 13, 2004, to Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of
October 29, 2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of
September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company,
N.A., as successor to Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 13, 2004 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(h)     Supplemental
Indenture No. 4, dated as of April 27, 2005, to Indenture for Senior Debt
Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed April 28, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).

4.1(i)       Supplemental
Indenture No. 5, dated as of November 30, 2005, to Indenture for Senior Debt
Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed November 30, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(a)
    Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1
to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(b)     Supplemental
Indenture No. 1, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).


4.2(c)      Amendment No. 1 to
Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of June 18, 2010, between the
Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
June 18, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

4.2(d)     Supplemental
Indenture No. 2, dated as of April 7, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2
to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 7, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).

4.2(e)      Amendment
No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of June 8, 2010,
between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
June 8, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

4.2(f)      Supplemental
Indenture No. 3, dated as of September 10, 2010, between the Company
and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 13,
2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(g)      Supplemental
Indenture No. 4, dated as of November 16, 2010, between the Company and The
Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 16, 2010 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(h)     Supplemental
Indenture No. 5, dated as of March 14, 2011, between the Company and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 14, 2011 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(i)       Supplemental
Indenture No. 6, dated as of April 3, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2
to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 4, 2012 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(j)      Supplemental
Indenture No. 7, dated as of December 6, 2012, between the Company and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed December 11, 2012 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(k)     Supplemental
Indenture No. 8, dated as of October 7, 2013, between the Company and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed October 9, 2013 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(l)       Supplemental
Indenture No. 9, dated as of November 20, 2013, between the Company and The
Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 20, 2013 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(m)    Supplemental
Indenture No. 10, dated as of November 25, 2014, between the Company and The
Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 25, 2014 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(n)     Supplemental
Indenture No. 11, dated as of May 26, 2015, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2
to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 27, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(o)     Amendment
No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of October 19, 2015, between
the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed October 20, 2015
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.3          Form
of Indenture for Senior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 4.9 to the Company’s Form S-3 (File No. 333-73936) filed November
21, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


4.4          Form of Indenture for
Junior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.10
to the Company’s Form S-3 (File No. 333-73936) filed November 21, 2001, and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.5(a)     Indenture,
dated as of November 25, 2015, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the
Company and BNY Trust Company of Canada.

4.5(b)     First
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2015, by and among HCN
Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the Company and BNY Trust Company of Canada.

10.1        Credit
Agreement dated as of July 25, 2014 by and among the Company; the lenders
listed therein; KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent, L/C
issuer and a swingline lender; Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A., as co-syndication agents; Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as documentation
agent; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan
Securities LLC, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.,
as U.S. joint lead arrangers; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and RBC Capital Markets, as Canadian
joint lead arrangers; and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as joint book runners (filed with
the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed July 31, 2014
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

10.2        Equity
Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 28, 2011, by and among the
Company, FC-GEN Investment, LLC and FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
February 28, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

10.3(a)   Amended
and Restated Health Care REIT, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with
the Commission as Appendix A to the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2009
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed March 25, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(b)   Form
of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for the Chief
Executive Officer under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.18 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(c)   Form
of Amendment to Stock Option Agreements (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for
the Chief Executive Officer under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with
the Commission as Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(d)   Form
of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for the Chief
Executive Officer under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(e)   Form
of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive
Officers under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.19 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(f)    Form
of Amendment to Stock Option Agreements (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for
Executive Officers under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(g)   Form
of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive
Officers under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(h)   Form
of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for the Chief
Executive Officer under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.20 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


10.3(i)    Form of Stock Option
Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for the Chief Executive Officer
under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(j)    Form
of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive
Officers under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.21 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(k)   Form
of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive
Officers under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10,
2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(l)    Form
of Restricted Stock Agreement for the Chief Executive Officer under the 2005
Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.22 to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(m)  Form
of Restricted Stock Agreement for Executive Officers under the 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.23 to the Company’s
Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*

10.3(n)   Form
of Restricted Stock Agreement for the Chief Executive Officer under the Amended
and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(o)   Form
of Restricted Stock Agreement for Executive Officers under the Amended and
Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.4 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(p)   Form
of Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.24 to
the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(q)   Form
of Amendment to Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreements for Non-Employee Directors
under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.10 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(r)    Form
of Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.11 to
the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(s)    Form
of Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the
Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.4        Retirement
and Consulting Agreement, dated April 13, 2014, between the Company and George
L. Chapman (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form
10-Q filed May 8, 2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*

10.5(a)   Amended
and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 28, 2014, between the Company
and Thomas J. DeRosa.*

10.5(b)   Performance-Based
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement, dated effective as of July 30, 2014,
between the Company and Thomas J. DeRosa (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 4, 2014 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


10.6        Second Amended and Restated
Employment Agreement, dated December 29, 2008, between the Company and Scott A.
Estes (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Form 8-K
filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*

10.7(a)   Executive
Retirement Agreement, effective July 1, 2015, between the Company and Charles
J. Herman, Jr. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form
10-Q filed August 4, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*

10.7(b)   Consulting
Agreement, effective July 1, 2015, between the Company and Charles J. Herman,
Jr. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
August 4, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*

10.8        Amended
and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 29, 2008, between the Company
and Jeffrey H. Miller (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.8 to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed March 2, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.9

Employment Agreement, dated March 11, 2013, by and between
the Company and Scott M. Brinker (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to
the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 7, 2013 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.10      Third
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 29, 2008, between the
Company and Erin C. Ibele (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.11 to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed March 2, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.11      Amended
and Restated Health Care REIT, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
dated December 29, 2008 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.12 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.12      Form
of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each director, executive
officer and officer of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1
to the Company’s Form 8-K filed February 18, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.13      Summary
of Director Compensation (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.13 to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed February 20, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.14      Health
Care REIT, Inc. 2013-2015 Long-Term Incentive Program, as Amended and Restated
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May
8, 2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.15(a) Health
Care REIT, Inc. 2015-2017 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 4, 2015
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.15(b) Form
of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2015-2017
Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 4, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

12           Statement
Regarding Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Ratio of
Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends (Unaudited).

21           Subsidiaries of the Company.

23           Consent of Ernst & Young LLP,
independent registered public accounting firm.

24           Powers of Attorney.


31.1        Rule
13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.

31.2        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification
of Chief Financial Officer.

32.1        Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350 by Chief Executive Officer.

32.2        Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350 by Chief Financial Officer.

101.INS     XBRL Instance
Document**

101.SCH   XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Schema Document**

101.CAL   XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Calculation Linkbase Document**

101.LAB   XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Label Linkbase Document**

101.PRE    XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Presentation Linkbase Document**

101.DEF    XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Definition Linkbase Document**

*

Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.

**

Attached as Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form
  10-K are the following materials, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business
  Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31,
  2015 and 2014, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
  for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, (iii) the
  Consolidated Statements of Equity for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014
  and 2013, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years
  ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, (v) the Notes to Consolidated
  Financial Statements, (vi) Schedule III – Real Estate and Accumulated
  Depreciation and (vii) Schedule IV – Mortgage Loans on Real Estate.

130