10-K


10-K.htm

10-K

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM
10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13
OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31,

Commission File No. 1-8923

WELLTOWER
INC.

(Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

34-1096634

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

(419) 247-2800

(Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each
  Class

Name of Each
  Exchange on Which Registered

Common
  Stock, $1.00 par value

New
  York Stock Exchange

6.50%
  Series I Cumulative

Convertible
  Perpetual Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value

New
  York Stock Exchange

4.800%
  Notes due 2028

New
  York Stock Exchange

4.500%
  Notes due 2034

New
  York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes

☑

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.  Yes

☐

No

☑

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes

☑

No

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405
of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes

☑

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

R

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller
reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

☑

Accelerated
filer

☐

Non-accelerated
filer

o

Smaller reporting company

o

Emerging growth company

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

If an
emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected
not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised
financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the
Exchange Act.

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes

☐

No

☑

The
aggregate market value of the shares of voting common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing sales
price of such shares on the New York Stock Exchange as of the last business day
of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter was
$27,562,002,967.

As of
January 31, 2018, the registrant had 371,669,527 shares of common stock
outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions
of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the annual stockholders’ meeting
to be held May 3, 2018, are incorporated by reference into Part III.

WELLTOWER
INC.

2017 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT


Page

PART I

Item
  1.

Business


Item
  1A.

Risk
  Factors


Item
  1B.

Unresolved
  Staff Comments


Item
  2.

Properties


Item
  3.

Item
  4.

Legal
  Proceedings

Mine
  Safety Disclosures



PART II

Item
  5.

Market
  for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
  Purchases of Equity Securities


Item
  6.

Selected
  Financial Data


Item
  7.

Management’s
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


Item
  7A.

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


Item
  8.

Financial
  Statements and Supplementary Data


Item
  9.

Changes
  in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


Item
  9A.

Controls
  and Procedures


Item
  9B.

Other
  Information


PART III

Item
  10.

Directors,

Executive Officers and Corporate Governance


Item
  11.

Executive
  Compensation


Item
  12.

Security
  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
  Matters


Item
  13.

Certain

Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence


Item
  14.

Principal
  Accounting Fees and Services


PART IV

Item
  15.

Exhibits

and Financial Statement Schedules


Item
  16.

Form 10-K Summary


Signature


PART I

Item 1.

Business

General

Welltower
Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is
driving the transformation of health care infrastructure.  The company invests
with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems
to fund real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery
models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care experience. 
Welltower

TM

, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests
in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the United States
(“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing
and post-acute communities and outpatient medical properties.  Our capital
programs, when combined with comprehensive planning, development and property management
services, make us a single-source solution for acquiring, planning, developing,
managing, repositioning and monetizing real estate assets.  More information is
available on the Internet at www.welltower.com.  The information on our website
is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our
web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.

Our
primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder
value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create
opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of
annual increases in net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these
objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health
care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type,
relationship and geographic location.

References
herein to “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” refer to Welltower Inc., a
Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries unless specifically noted otherwise.

Portfolio of Properties

Please
see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operation – Executive Summary – Company Overview” for a table that
summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2017.

Property Types

We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate and
evaluate our business on three reportable segments: triple-net, seniors housing
operating and outpatient medical.

For additional information
regarding our segments, please see Note 17 to our consolidated financial
statements.

The accounting policies of the segments
are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting
policies in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.

The
following is a summary of our various property types.

Triple-Net

Our
triple-net properties include independent living facilities and independent
supportive living facilities (Canada), continuing care retirement communities,
assisted living facilities, care homes with and without nursing (U.K.),
Alzheimer’s/dementia care facilities and long-term/post-acute care facilities. 
We invest primarily through acquisitions, development and joint venture
partnerships. Our properties are primarily leased to operators under long-term,
triple-net master leases that obligate the tenant to pay all operating costs,
utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs
and all obligations under certain ground leases. We are not involved in
property management.  Our properties include stand-alone facilities that
provide one level of service, combination facilities that provide multiple
levels of service, and communities or campuses that provide a wide range of
services.

Independent
Living Facilities and Independent Supportive Living Facilities (Canada).

Independent
living facilities and independent supportive living facilities are
age-restricted, multifamily properties with central dining facilities that
provide residents access to meals and other services such as housekeeping,
linen service, transportation and social and recreational activities.

Continuing
Care Retirement Communities.

Continuing care
retirement communities typically include a combination of detached homes, an
independent living facility, an assisted living facility and/or a
long-term/post-acute care facility on one campus. These communities appeal to
residents because there is no need to relocate when health and medical needs
change. Resident payment plans vary, but can include entrance fees, condominium
fees and rental fees. Many of these communities also charge monthly maintenance
fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some health services.

Assisted
Living Facilities

.  Assisted living facilities are state regulated rental
properties that provide the same services as independent living facilities, but
also provide supportive care from trained employees to residents who require
assistance with activities of daily living, including, but not limited to,
management of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting, ambulating and eating.


Care
Homes with or without Nursing (U.K.)

.  Care homes without nursing,
regulated by the Care Quality Commission (CQC”), are rental properties that
provide essentially the same services as U.S. assisted living facilities. Care
homes with nursing, also regulated by the CQC, are licensed daily rate or
rental properties where the majority of individuals require 24-hour nursing
and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for various
national and local reimbursement programs.  Unlike the U.S., care homes with
nursing in the U.K. generally do not provide post-acute care.

Alzheimer’s/Dementia
Care Facilities.

Certain assisted living facilities may include
state-licensed settings that specialize in caring for those afflicted with
Alzheimer’s disease and/or other types of dementia.

Long-Term/Post-Acute
Care Facilities

.  Our long-term/post-acute care facilities generally include
skilled nursing/post-acute care facilities, inpatient rehabilitation facilities
and long-term acute care facilities.  Skilled nursing/post-acute care
facilities are licensed daily rate or rental properties where the majority of
individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these
properties are licensed for Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement in the U.S.
or provincial reimbursement in Canada.  All facilities offer some level of
rehabilitation services.  Some facilities focus on higher acuity patients and
offer rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac, orthopedic, dialysis,
neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation.  Inpatient rehabilitation facilities
provide inpatient services for patients with intensive rehabilitation needs. 
Long-term acute care facilities provide inpatient services for patients with
complex medical conditions that require more intensive care, monitoring or
emergency support than is available in most skilled nursing/post-acute care
facilities.

Our triple-net segment
accounted for 22%, 28% and 31% of total revenues for the years ended December
31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  For the year ended December 31, 2017,
our revenues related to our relationship with Genesis

HealthCare (“Genesis”)

accounted for
approximately 20% of our triple-net segment revenues and 4% of our total
revenues.

As of December 31, 2017, our relationship
with Genesis was comprised of a master lease for 86 properties owned 100% by
us, three real estate loans totaling approximately $267 million, approximately
9.5 million shares of GEN Series A common stock (representing approximately 6%
of total GEN common stock) and a 25% ownership stake in an unconsolidated joint
venture that includes a master lease for 28 properties operated by Genesis

. In
addition to rent, the master lease requires Genesis to pay all operating costs,
utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs, maintenance costs
and all obligations under certain ground leases.  All obligations under the
master lease have been guaranteed by FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC, a
subsidiary of Genesis. Please see Notes 6 and 21 to our consolidated financial
statements for additional information.

Seniors
Housing Operating

Our
seniors housing operating properties include several of the facility types
described in “Item 1 – Business – Property Types – Triple-Net”, including
independent living facilities and independent supportive living facilities,
assisted living facilities, care homes and Alzheimer’s/dementia care
facilities.  Properties are primarily held in joint venture entities with operating
partners. We utilize the structure proposed in the REIT Investment
Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007, which is commonly referred to as a
“RIDEA” structure (the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code authorizing the
RIDEA structure were enacted as part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act
of 2008).  See Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements for more
information.

Our seniors housing
operating segment accounted for 65%, 59% and 56% of total revenues for the
years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  As of December 31,
2017, we had relationships with 17 operators to manage our seniors housing
operating properties.  In each instance, our partner provides management
services to the properties pursuant to an incentive-based management contract. 
We rely on our partners to effectively and efficiently manage these
properties.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, our relationship with
Sunrise Senior Living accounted for approximately 37% of our seniors housing
operating segment revenues and 24% of our total revenues. See Note 7 to our
consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Outpatient
Medical

Outpatient
Medical Buildings

.  The outpatient medical building portfolio consists of health
care related buildings that generally include physician offices, ambulatory
surgery centers, diagnostic facilities, outpatient services and/or labs. Our
portfolio has a strong affiliation with health systems. Approximately 95% of
our outpatient medical building portfolio is affiliated with health systems
(with buildings on hospital campuses or serving as satellite locations for the
health system and its physicians). We typically lease our outpatient medical
buildings to multiple tenants and provide varying levels of property
management.  Our outpatient medical segment accounted for 13% of total revenues
for each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.  No single tenant
exceeds 20% of segment revenues.

Investments

We
invest in seniors housing and health care real estate primarily through
acquisitions, developments and joint venture partnerships. For additional
information regarding acquisition and development activity, please see Note 3
to our consolidated financial statements.  We seek to diversify our investment
portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic location. In determining
whether to invest in a property, we focus on the following: (1) the
experience of the obligor’s/partner’s management


team;
(2) the historical and projected financial and operational performance of
the property; (3) the credit of the obligor/partner; (4) the security
for any lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of the building and its
location; (6) the capital committed to the property by the
obligor/partner; and (7) the operating fundamentals of the applicable industry.

We
monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of
property. Our asset management process for seniors housing properties generally
includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating data for
each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property
inspections, and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real
estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property
management division manages and monitors the outpatient medical portfolio with
a comprehensive process including review of, among other things, tenant
relations, lease expirations, the mix of health service providers,
hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital improvement
needs, and market conditions.

Investment Types

Real Property.

Our properties
are primarily comprised of land, buildings, improvements and related rights. 
Our triple-net properties are generally leased to operators under long-term
operating leases.  The leases generally have a fixed contractual term of 12 to
15 years and contain one or more five to 15-year renewal options. Certain
of our leases also contain purchase options, a portion of which could result in
the disposition of properties for less than full market value.  Most of our
rents are received under triple-net leases requiring the operator to pay rent
and all additional charges incurred in the operation of the leased property.
The tenants are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the leased properties.
Substantially all of these operating leases are designed with escalating rent
structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized
on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability
assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators
is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the
period.

At
December 31, 2017, approximately 92% of our triple-net properties were subject
to master leases. A master lease is a lease of multiple properties to one
tenant entity under a single lease agreement. From time to time, we may acquire
additional properties that are then leased to the tenant under the master
lease. The tenant is required to make one monthly payment that represents rent
on all the properties that are subject to the master lease. Typically, the
master lease tenant can exercise its right to purchase the properties or to
renew the master lease only with respect to all leased properties at the same
time. This bundling feature benefits us because the tenant cannot limit the
purchase or renewal to the better performing properties and terminate the
leasing arrangement with respect to the poorer performing properties. This
spreads our risk among the entire group of properties within the master lease.
The bundling feature should provide a similar advantage to us if the master
lease tenant is in bankruptcy. Subject to certain restrictions, a debtor in
bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject its unexpired leases and executory
contracts.  In the context of integrated master leases such as ours, our
tenants in bankruptcy would be required to assume or reject the master lease as
a whole, rather than deciding on a property by property basis.

Our
outpatient medical portfolio is primarily self-managed and consists principally
of multi-tenant properties leased to health care providers. Our leases
typically include increasers and some form of operating expense reimbursement
by the tenant. As of December 31, 2017, 80% of our portfolio included leases
with full pass through, 19% with a partial expense reimbursement (modified
gross) and 1% with no expense reimbursement (gross). Our outpatient medical
leases are non-cancellable operating leases that have a weighted-average
remaining term of seven years at December 31, 2017 and are often credit
enhanced by security deposits, guaranties and/or letters of credit.

Construction.

We provide for
the construction of properties for tenants primarily as part of long-term
operating leases. We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds
used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is
based upon the amount advanced during the construction period using the rate of
interest that approximates our Company-wide cost of financing. Our interest
expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. We also typically charge a
transaction fee at the commencement of construction which we defer and amortize
to income over the term of the resulting lease. The construction period
commences upon funding and terminates upon the earlier of the completion of the
applicable property or the end of a specified period. During the construction
period, we advance funds to the tenants in accordance with agreed upon terms
and conditions which require, among other things, periodic site visits by a
Company representative. During the construction period, we generally require an
additional credit enhancement in the form of payment and performance bonds
and/or completion guaranties. At December 31, 2017, we had outstanding
construction investments of $237,746,000 and were committed to provide
additional funds of approximately $429,815,000 to complete construction for
investment properties. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information. We also provide for construction loans which, depending
on the terms and conditions, could be treated as loans, real property, or
investments in unconsolidated entities.

Real
Estate Loans.

Our real estate loans are typically structured to
provide us with interest income, principal amortization and transaction fees
and are generally secured by first/second mortgage liens, leasehold mortgages,
corporate guaranties and/or personal guaranties. At December 31, 2017, we had gross
outstanding real estate loans of $495,871,000.  The interest yield averaged approximately
9.2% per annum on our outstanding real estate loan balances. Our yield on real
estate loans depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest
rate, average principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any
interest rate adjustments. The real estate loans outstanding at December 31,
2017 are generally subject to one to 15-year terms with principal amortization
schedules and/or balloon payments of the outstanding principal balances at the
end of the term. Typically, real estate loans are cross-defaulted and
cross-collateralized with other real estate loans, operating leases or
agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates. See Note 6 to our
consolidated financial statements for additional information.


Investments in
Unconsolidated Entities

. Investments in entities that we do not consolidate
but have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and
financial policies are reported under the equity method of accounting.  Our
investments in unconsolidated entities generally represent interests ranging
from 10% to 50% in real estate assets.  Under the equity method of accounting,
our share of the investee’s earnings or losses is included in our consolidated
results of operations. To the extent that our cost basis is different from the
basis reflected at the entity level, the basis difference is generally
amortized over the lives of the related assets and liabilities, and such
amortization is included in our share of equity in earnings of the entity.  The
initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on
the amount paid to purchase the entity interest or the estimated fair value of
the assets prior to the sale of interests in the entity. We evaluate our equity
method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair
value of the equity method investment to its carrying value. When we determine
a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying
value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.  See Note 7 to our
consolidated financial statements for more information.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements
are in conformity with U.S general accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”)
and include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint venture
entities that we control, through voting rights or other means. All material
intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

At inception of joint venture
transactions, we identify entities for which control is achieved through means
other than voting rights (“variable interest entities” or “VIEs”) and determine
which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary of its operations. A VIE
is broadly defined as an entity where either (i) the equity investors as a
group, if any, do not have a controlling financial interest, or (ii) the
equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities
without additional subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments
in VIEs when we are determined to be the primary beneficiary.  Accounting
Standards Codification Topic 810, Consolidations, requires enterprises to
perform a qualitative approach to determining whether or not a VIE will need to
be consolidated. This evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct
and influence the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact that
entity’s economic performance.

For investments in joint ventures, U.S.
GAAP may preclude consolidation by the sole general partner in certain
circumstances based on the type of rights held by the limited partner(s).  We
assess the limited partners’ rights and their impact on our consolidation
conclusions, and we reassess if there is a change to the terms or in the
exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, the sole general partner
increases or decreases its ownership of limited partnership interests, or there
is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding limited partnership
interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing members of limited
liability companies.

Borrowing Policies

We
utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments. Our debt and
equity levels are determined by management to maintain a conservative balance
sheet and credit profile. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed-rate
public debt with long-term maturities to approximate the maturities on our
triple-net leases and investment strategy. For short-term purposes, we may
borrow on our primary unsecured credit facility. We replace these borrowings
with long-term capital such as senior unsecured notes or common stock. When
terms are deemed favorable, we may invest in properties subject to existing
mortgage indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for
unleveraged properties in which we have invested or may refinance properties
acquired on a leveraged basis. In certain agreements with our lenders, we are
subject to restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.

Competition

We
compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships,
private equity and hedge fund investors, banks, insurance companies,
finance/investment companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and
tax-exempt bond funds, health care operators, developers and other investors in
the acquisition, development, leasing and financing of health care and seniors
housing properties. We compete for investments based on a number of factors
including relationships, certainty of execution, investment structures and
underwriting criteria. Our ability to successfully compete is impacted by
economic and demographic trends, availability of acceptable investment
opportunities, our ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms,
availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, and
applicable laws and regulations.

The
operators/tenants of our properties compete with properties that provide
comparable services in the local markets. Operators/tenants compete for
patients and residents based on a number of factors including quality of care,
reputation, physical appearance of properties, location, services offered,
family preferences, physicians, staff, and price. We also face competition from
other health care facilities for tenants, such as physicians and other health
care providers that provide comparable facilities and services.

For
additional information on the risks associated with our business, please see
“Item 1A — Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

As of January 31, 2018, we had 392 employees.


Credit Concentrations

Please see Note 8 to our
consolidated financial statements.

Geographic Concentrations

Please see “Item 2 –
Properties” below and Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements.

Health Care Industry

The
demand for health care services, and consequently health care properties, is
projected to reach unprecedented levels in the near future. The Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) projects that national health
expenditures will rise to approximately $3.7 trillion in 2018 or 18.5% of gross
domestic product. The average annual growth in national health expenditures for
2015 through 2025 is expected to be 5.8%. While demographics are the primary
driver of demand, economic conditions and availability of services contribute
to health care service utilization rates. We believe the health care property
market may be less susceptible to fluctuations and economic downturns relative
to other property sectors. Investor interest in the market remains strong,
especially in specific sectors such as private-pay seniors housing and
outpatient medical buildings. The total U.S. population for 2015 through 2025
is projected to increase by 9.3%. The elderly population aged 65 and over is
projected to increase by 36% through 2025. The elderly are an important
component of health care utilization, especially independent living services,
assisted living services, long-term/post-acute care services, inpatient and
outpatient hospital services and physician ambulatory care. Most health care
services are provided within a health care facility such as a hospital, a
physician’s office or a seniors housing community. Therefore, we believe there
will be continued demand for companies, such as ours, with expertise in health
care real estate.

Health
care real estate investment opportunities tend to increase as demand for health
care services increases.  We recognize the need for health care real estate as
it correlates to health care service demand.  Health care providers require
real estate to house their businesses and expand their services.  We believe
that investment opportunities in health care real estate will continue to be
present due to:

·

The specialized nature of the industry, which enhances the
credibility and experience of the Company;

·

The projected population growth combined with stable or increasing
health care utilization rates, which ensures demand; and

·

The on-going merger and acquisition activity.

Certain
Government Regulations

United
States

Health Law Matters — Generally

Typically, operators of seniors housing facilities do not receive significant
funding from government programs and are largely subject to state laws, as
opposed to federal laws.  Operators of long-term/post-acute care facilities and
hospitals do receive significant funding from government programs, and these
facilities are subject to extensive regulation, including federal and state
laws covering the type and quality of medical and/or nursing care provided,
ancillary services (

e.g

., respiratory, occupational, physical and
infusion therapies), qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing
staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment, reimbursement and rate
setting and operating policies.  In addition, as described below, operators of
these facilities are subject to extensive laws and regulations pertaining to
health care fraud and abuse, including, but not limited to, the federal
Anti-Kickback Statute (“AKS”), the federal Stark Law (“Stark Law”), and the federal
False Claims Act (“FCA”), as well as comparable state laws.  Hospitals,
physician group practice clinics, and other health care providers that operate
in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal, state, and local licensure,
registration, certification, and inspection laws, regulations, and industry
standards.  Our tenants’ failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations
could result in, among other things: loss of accreditation; denial of
reimbursement; imposition of fines; suspension, decertification, or exclusion
from federal and state health care programs; loss of license; or closure of the
facility.  See risk factors “The requirements of, or changes to, governmental
reimbursement programs, such as Medicare or Medicaid, could have a material
adverse effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial condition and results of
operations, which could adversely affect our obligors’ ability to meet their
obligations to us” and “Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with
federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and
inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely affect such
operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could adversely affect our operators’
and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us” in “Item 1A – Risk
Factors” below.

Licensing and Certification

The primary regulations that affect long-term and post-acute care facilities
are state licensing and registration laws.  For example, certain health care
facilities are subject to a variety of licensure and certificate of need
(“CON”) laws and regulations.  Where applicable, CON laws generally require,
among other requirements, that a facility demonstrate the need for (1)
constructing a new facility, (2) adding beds or expanding an existing facility,
(3) investing in major capital equipment or adding new services, (4) changing
the ownership or control of an existing licensed facility, or (5) terminating
services that have been previously approved through the CON process.  Certain
state CON laws and regulations may restrict the ability of operators to add new
properties or


expand an existing facility’s size or
services. In addition, CON laws may constrain the ability of an operator to
transfer responsibility for operating a particular facility to a new operator.

With respect to licensure, generally our long-term/post-acute care facilities
are required to be licensed and certified for participation in Medicare,
Medicaid, and other federal and state health care programs.  The failure of our
operators to maintain or renew any required license or regulatory approval as
well as the failure of our operators to correct serious deficiencies identified
in a compliance survey could require those operators to discontinue operations
at a property.  In addition, if a property is found to be out of compliance with
Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal or state health care program conditions of
participation, the property operator may be excluded from participating in
those government health care programs.

Reimbursement

The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care facilities continue to
evolve.  Federal and state authorities have considered and may seek to
implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies, including value-based
reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health care property
operations.  The impact of any such changes, if implemented, may result in a
material adverse effect on our portfolio.  No assurance can be given that
current revenue sources or levels will be maintained.  Accordingly, there can
be no assurance that payments under a government health care program are
currently, or will be in the future, sufficient to fully reimburse the property
operators for their operating and capital expenses.

·

Seniors Housing Facilities.

Approximately 60% of our overall revenues
for the year ended December 31, 2017 were attributable to U.S. seniors housing
facilities.  The majority of the revenues received by the operators of these
facilities are from private pay sources. The remaining revenue source is
primarily Medicaid provided under state waiver programs for home and community
based care.  As of September 30, 2017, 14 of our 43 seniors housing operators
received Medicaid reimbursement pursuant to Medicaid waiver programs. For the
twelve months ended September 30, 2017, approximately 1.2% of the revenues at
our seniors housing facilities were from Medicaid reimbursement.  There can be
no guarantee that a state Medicaid program operating pursuant to a waiver will
be able to maintain its waiver status.  Rates paid by self-pay residents are
set by the facilities and are determined by local market conditions and
operating costs.  Generally, facilities receive a higher payment per day for a
private pay resident than for a Medicaid beneficiary who requires a comparable level
of care.  The level of Medicaid reimbursement varies from state to state. 
Thus, the revenues generated by operators of our assisted living facilities may
be adversely affected by payor mix, acuity level, changes in Medicaid
eligibility, and reimbursement levels.  In addition, a state could lose its
Medicaid waiver and no longer be permitted to utilize Medicaid dollars to
reimburse for assisted living services.

·

Long-Term/Post-Acute Care
Facilities

.  Approximately 8% of our
overall revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 were attributable to U.S.
long-term/post-acute care facilities.  The majority of the revenues received by
the operators of these facilities are from the Medicare and Medicaid programs,
with the balance representing reimbursement payments from private payors. 
Consequently, changes in federal or state reimbursement policies may adversely
affect an operator’s ability to cover its expenses, including our rent or debt
service.  Long-term/post-acute care facilities are subject to periodic pre- and
post-payment reviews, and other audits by federal and state authorities.  A
review or audit of a property operator’s claims could result in recoupments,
denials, or delay of payments in the future.  Due to the significant judgments
and estimates inherent in payor settlement accounting, no assurance can be
given as to the adequacy of any reserves maintained by our property operators
to cover potential adjustments to reimbursements, or to cover settlements made
to payors. Recent focus on billing practices, payments, and quality of care, or
ongoing government pressure to reduce spending by government health care
programs, could result in lower payments to long-term/post-acute care
facilities and, as a result, may impair an operator’s ability to meet its
financial obligations to us.

☐

Medicare Reimbursement.

For the twelve months ended September 30, 2017,
approximately 35% of the revenues at our long-term/post-acute care facilities
were paid by Medicare. Generally, long-term/post-acute care facilities are
reimbursed under the Medicare Skilled Nursing Facility Prospective Payment
System (“SNF PPS”), the Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment
System (“IRF PPS”), or the Long-Term Care Hospital Prospective Payment System
(“LTCH PPS”), which generally provide reimbursement based upon a predetermined
fixed amount per episode of care and are updated by CMS, an agency of the
Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) annually.  In August 2017, CMS
made some positive payment updates for fiscal year (“FY”) 2017 under the SNF
PPS, the IRF PPS and the LTCH PPS.  In particular, CMS published a final rule
regarding FY 2018 Medicare payment policies and rates for:

§

SNF PPS.  Under the final SNF PPS rule,
CMS projects that payments to SNFs will increase in FY

on an aggregate basis by

1.0% from payments in
FY

2017.

§

IRF PPS.  Under the IRF PPS rule,
CMS estimates that aggregate payments to IRFs will increase in FY

2018 on an aggregate basis by

0.9%
relative to payments in FY

2017.

§

LTCH PPS.  As a result of the
continuation of the phase-in of site neutral payment rates for specified cases
in LTCHs, CMS projects FY 2018 Medicare payments to LTCHs will decrease by

2.4%.  Payment rates will increase by

1.0% for cases that qualify for the higher standard
LTCH

PPS rate.  CMS also finalized its proposal to
remove from FY 2018 payment rates the temporary 0.6% Medicare Part A hospital payment
increase to FY 2017 payment rates implemented in connection with a federal
district court’s review of the “Two Midnight” payment policy.

There is a risk under these payment systems that costs
will exceed the fixed payments, or that payments may be set below the costs to
provide certain items and services.  In addition, the HHS Office of Inspector
General has released recommendations to address SNF billing practices and
Medicare payment rates.  If followed, these recommendations regarding SNF
payment reform may impact our tenants and operators.


☐

Medicaid Reimbursement

.  For the twelve months ended September 30, 2017,
approximately 36% of the revenues of our long-term/post-acute care facilities
were paid by Medicaid.  Many states reimburse SNFs, for example, using fixed
daily rates, which are applied prospectively based on patient acuity and the
historical costs incurred in providing patient care.  In most states, Medicaid
does not fully reimburse the cost of providing services.  Certain states are
attempting to slow the rate of Medicaid growth by freezing rates or restricting
eligibility and benefits.  In addition, Medicaid reimbursement rates may
decline if state revenues in a particular state are not sufficient to fund
budgeted expenditures.

·

Medicare Reimbursement for
Physicians, Hospital Outpatient Departments (“HOPDs”), and Ambulatory Surgical
Centers (“ASCs”).

Changes in
reimbursement to physicians, HOPDs, and ASCs may further affect our tenants and
operators.  Generally, Medicare reimburses physicians under the Physician Fee
Schedule, while HOPDs and ASCs are reimbursed under prospective payment
systems.  The Physician Fee Schedule and the HOPD and ASC prospective payment
systems are updated annually by CMS.  These annual Medicare payment regulations
have resulted in lower net pay increases than providers of those services have
often expected.  In addition, the Medicare and Children’s Health Insurance Program
Reauthorization Act of 2015 (“MACRA”) includes payment reductions for providers
who do not meet government quality standards.  The implementation of
pay-for-quality models like those required under MACRA is expected to produce
funding disparities that could adversely impact some provider tenants in outpatient
medical buildings and other health care properties.

Changes in Medicare Advantage plan payments may also indirectly
affect our operators and tenants that contract with Medicare Advantage plans

.

·

Health Reform Laws.

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the
Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Health
Reform Laws”) dramatically altered how health care is delivered and reimbursed
in the U.S. and contained various provisions, including Medicaid expansion and
the establishment of Health Insurance Exchanges (“HIEs”) providing subsidized
health insurance, that may directly impact us or the operators and tenants of
our properties.

Since taking office, President Trump
and the current U.S. Congress have sought to modify, repeal, or otherwise
invalidate all or portions of the Health Reform Laws. For example, in October
2017, President Trump issued an executive order in which he stated that it is
his Administration’s policy to seek the prompt repeal of the Health Reform Laws
and directed executive departments and federal agencies to waive, defer, grant
exemptions from, or delay the implementation of the provisions of the Health
Reform Laws to the maximum extent permitted by law

. 
On the same day, the federal government separately announced that cost-sharing
reduction payments to insurers offering qualified health plans through the HIEs
would end, effective immediately, unless Congress appropriated the funds.
Further, in December 2017, the U.S. Congress passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act,
which included a provision that eliminates the penalty under the Health Reform
Laws’ individual mandate and could impact the future state of the HIEs
established by the Health Reform Laws.  There is still uncertainty with respect
to the

additional impact President Trump’s
Administration and the U.S. Congress may have, if any, and any changes will likely
take time to unfold, and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for
health care items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the
Health Reform Laws.  We cannot predict whether the existing Health Reform Laws,
or future health care reform legislation or regulatory changes, will have a
material impact on our operators’ or tenants’ property or business.

Fraud & Abuse Enforcement

Long-term/post-acute care facilities (and seniors
housing facilities that receive Medicaid payments) are subject to federal,
state, and local laws, regulations, and applicable guidance that govern the
operations and financial and other arrangements that may be entered into by
health care providers.  Certain of these laws, such as the AKS and Stark Law,
prohibit direct or indirect payments of any kind for the purpose of inducing or
encouraging the referral of patients for medical products or services reimbursable
by government health care programs.  Other laws require providers to furnish
only medically necessary services and submit to the government valid and
accurate statements for each service.  Specifically, our operators and tenants
that receive payments from federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and
Medicaid, are subject to substantial financial penalties under the Civil
Monetary Penalties Act and the FCA and, in particular, actions under the FCA’s
“whistleblower” provisions.  Private enforcement of health care fraud has
increased due in large part to amendments to the FCA that encourage private
individuals to sue on behalf of the government. In addition, states may also
have separate false claims acts, which, among other things, generally prohibit
health care providers from filing false claims or making false statements to
receive payments.  Still other laws require providers to comply with a variety
of safety, health and other requirements relating to the condition of the
licensed property and the quality of care provided.  Sanctions for violations
of these laws, regulations, and other applicable guidance may include, but are
not limited to, criminal and/or civil penalties and fines, loss of licensure,
immediate termination of government payments, exclusion from any government
health care program, damage assessments, and imprisonment.  In certain
circumstances, violation of these rules (such as those prohibiting abusive and
fraudulent behavior) with respect to one property may subject other facilities
under common control or ownership to sanctions, including exclusion from
participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as other
government health care programs.  In the ordinary course of its business, a
property operator is regularly subjected to inquiries, investigations, and
audits by the federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and
regulations.

Prosecutions, investigations, or whistleblower actions could have a material
adverse effect on a property operator’s liquidity, financial condition, and
operations, which could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet
its financial obligations to us.  In addition, government investigations and
enforcement actions brought against the health care industry have increased
dramatically over the past several years and are expected to continue. 
Although the responsibility for enforcing these laws and regulations lies with
a variety of federal, state and local governmental agencies, some may be
enforced by private litigants through federal and state false claims acts and
other laws, including some state privacy laws, that allow for private
individuals to bring actions.  The costs for an


operator
of a health care property associated with both defending such enforcement actions
and the undertakings in settling these actions can be substantial and could
have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its
obligations to us.

Federal and State Data Privacy and
Security Laws

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), as
amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health
Act, and numerous other state and federal laws govern the collection, security,
dissemination, use, access to and confidentiality of individually identifiable
health information.  Violations of these laws may result in substantial civil
and/or criminal fines and penalties.  The costs for an operator of a health
care property associated with developing and maintaining HIPAA compliance
systems, defending enforcement actions and paying any assessed fines, can be
substantial and could have a material adverse effect on the ability of an
operator to meet its obligations to us.

United
Kingdom

In the U.K., care home services are principally regulated by the Health and
Social Care Act 2008 (as amended) and other regulations.  This legislation
subjects service providers to a number of legally binding “Fundamental
Standards” and requires, amongst other things, that all persons carrying out “Regulated
Activities” in the U.K., and the managers of such persons, be registered.
Providers of care home services are also subject (as data controllers) to laws
governing their use of personal data (including in relation to their employees,
clients and recipients of their services).  These laws currently take the form
of the U.K.’s Data Protection Act 1998, enforced by the U.K.’s Information
Commissioner’s Office, but are expected to be replaced by the European Union’s
(“EU”) new General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”).  The GDPR will impose a
significant number of new obligations with the potential for fines of up to 4%
of annual worldwide turnover or €20 million, whichever is greater.  Entities
incorporated in or carrying on a business in the U.K. as well as individuals
residing in the U.K. are also subject to the U.K. Bribery Act 2010.  The U.K.
recently introduced a new national minimum wage with a maximum fine for
non-payment of £20,000 per worker and employers who fail to pay will be banned
from being a company director for up to 15 years.  The U.K. recently voted to
exit from the EU (“Brexit”).  Negotiations on the exit agreement are underway
but at present it is not possible to predict whether Brexit will have a material
impact on our operators’ or tenants’ property or business.

Canada

Retirement homes and long-term care homes are subject to regulation, and
long-term care homes receive funding, under provincial law.  There is no
federal regulation in this area.  Set out below are summaries of the principal
regulatory requirements in the provinces where we have a material number of
facilities.

Licensing and Regulation

Alberta

In Alberta, there are three relevant designations for seniors’ living
arrangements, ordered below from the most independent to the highest level of
care.

·

Retirement Homes

(also called independent living) are designed for
older adults able to live on their own, and may offer various lifestyle
amenities.  These residences may be rented, privately owned, or life-leased,
and may be operated for profit or non-profit.  Support services are not usually
offered, but can be arranged by residents.  Retirement homes do not generally
receive government funding; residents pay for tenancy and services
received.  Rental subsidies may be available to qualified seniors.
Independent living residences are subject to provincial tenancy and housing
laws.

·

Supportive Living

(also called assisted living) provides home-like
accommodation for residents who wish or need to access care, assistance, and
services. Operators provide at least one meal a day and/or housekeeping
services.  There are four levels of supportive living, addressing care needs
from basic to advanced.  In addition, there are two specialized designations of
supportive care to address the needs of residents who require the highest level
of care including for those who have cognitive impairments. Supportive living can
include senior lodges, group homes, and mental health and designated supportive
living accommodations, which can be operated by private for-profit or
not-for-profit, or public operators.  Supportive living services are licensed
and regulated under provincial laws, and governed by the Ministry of Health. 
Operators receiving public funds for health and personal care services must
also comply with additional provincial legislation, and are subject to
legislated safeguards aimed at investigation of suspected abuse. The maximum
accommodation fee in publicly-funded designated supportive living is regulated
by Alberta Health. In other supportive living settings, the operator sets the
cost of accommodation. Health services are publicly-funded and provided through
Alberta Health Services.  Private sector operators are eligible to apply for
government funding under a government capital grant program that provides
funding to develop long-term care and affordable supportive living spaces.

·

Nursing Homes

(also called long-term care) are for residents who
have complex, unpredictable medical needs and who require 24-hour on-site
registered nurse assessment or treatment. Nursing homes are regulated by provincial
laws, and governed by the Ministry of Health.  Operators are not licensed, but
enter into agreements with the Ministry for the operation of nursing homes and
must comply with certain accommodation standards.  Homes can be operated by
private for-profit or


not-for-profit, or public
operators. Operators that receive public funds for health and personal care
services must also comply with certain health service standards and legislation
aimed at protecting residents.  Alberta Health regulates the maximum
accommodation fee in publicly-funded nursing homes.  Health services in
long-term care are publicly-funded, provided through Alberta Health Services. 
Private sector operators are eligible to apply for government funding, and the
Minister may make grants to an operator in respect of its operating or capital
costs.

Ontario

Retirement homes are regulated and licensed under a provincial law aimed at
protecting residents. Retirement homes do not receive government funding;
residents enter into tenancy agreements under provincial tenancy law, and pay
for tenancy and services received.  Residents may access publicly-funded
external care services at the home from external suppliers.  Retirement home
licenses are granted by the Retirement Homes Regulatory Authority (“RHRA”), and
are non-transferable. The RHRA administers the law governing retirement homes,
to ensure that licensees are meeting certain standards, generally with respect
to care and safety.  The law requires any person to report to the RHRA when
there are reasonable grounds to suspect abuse of a resident by anyone, or
neglect of a resident by staff.  The RHRA conducts a mandatory inspection and
issues a report that is posted on the RHRA’s public website, and also must be
posted in the subject home if it is the most recent report.  The Registrar of
the RHRA can receive complaints about a retirement home contravening a
provision of the law, and if such a complaint is received, it must be reviewed
promptly.  The Registrar has broad powers relating to complaint investigation
and action.  The RHRA Registrar has the power to inspect a retirement home at
any time without warning or issue a warrant to ensure compliance.  Compliance
inspections occur at least every three years. The Registrar has the power to
make a variety of orders including the imposition of a fine or an order
revoking the operator’s license.  The applicable law also enumerates offenses,
such as operating without a license, and provides for penalties for offenses.

British Columbia

Provincial laws regulate and license “community care facilities” (long-term
care homes) in substantially the same manner as retirement homes are regulated
under Ontario laws. Community care facilities are defined as premises used for
the purpose of supervising vulnerable persons who require three or more prescribed
services (from a list that includes regular assistance with activities of daily
living; distribution of medication; management of cash resources; monitoring of
food intake; structured behavior management and intervention; and psychosocial
or physical rehabilitative therapy).

Provincial law also recognizes and regulates “assisted living residences,” for
seniors who can live independently, but require assistance with certain
activities. Services available can include meals, housekeeping, monitoring and
emergency support, social/recreational opportunities, and transportation. 
Assisted living residences do not require a license, but must be registered
with the registrar of assisted living residences and must be operated in a
manner that does not jeopardize the health or safety of residents. If the
registrar believes the standard is not being met, the registrar may inspect the
residence and may suspend or cancel a registration.  Independent living residences offer housing and
hospitality services for retired adults who are functionally independent and
able to direct their own care.

Québec

Provincial laws in Québec regulate retirement homes (private seniors’
residences) as well as long-term care homes (residential and long-term care
centers). Private seniors’ residences are required to obtain a certificate of
compliance based on prescribed operating standards.  A certificate of
compliance is issued for a period of four years and is renewable. The regional
health and social agency may revoke or refuse to issue or renew a certificate
of compliance if, among other things, the operator fails to comply with the
applicable law. The agency may also order corrective measures, further to an
inspection, complaint or investigation. The agency is authorized to inspect a
residence, at any reasonable time of day, in order to ascertain whether it
complies with the law.

Private seniors’ residences may belong to either or both of the following
categories: (i) those offering services to independent elderly persons and (ii)
those offering services to semi-independent elderly persons. The operator must,
for each category, comply with the applicable criteria and standards, with some
exceptions for residences with fewer than six or ten rooms or apartments. There
are requirements with respect to residents’ health and safety, meal services
and recreation, content of residents’ files, disclosure of information to
residents, and staffing, among other things.

In May 2017, Quebec adopted the

Act to combat maltreatment of seniors and
other persons of full age in vulnerable situations

, which aims to implement
a Quebec-wide framework agreement to combat maltreatment, targets all
facilities that provide health services and social services to seniors and
vulnerable persons, including health establishments and private residences.  We
expect that it will affect private seniors’ residences in the following ways:

·

Health establishments are required
to adopt an “Anti-Maltreatment Policy”, providing notably for the measures put
in place to prevent maltreatment of persons in vulnerable situations;

·

The policy adopted by health
establishments will notably have to include the required adaptation for the
implementation of the policy in private sector residences; and


·

Operators of private seniors’
residences will be required to apply the policy adopted by the integrated
health and social services center in their territory, as well as ensure that
the policy is known by residents, their family members and their employees.

Other Related Laws

Privacy

The services provided in our facilities are subject to privacy legislation in
Canada, including, in certain provinces, privacy laws specifically related to
personal health information.  Although the obligations of custodians of personal
information in the various provinces differ, they all include the obligation to
protect the information.  The organizations with which we have management
agreements may be the custodian of personal information collected in connection
with the operation of our facilities.

Privacy laws in Canada are consent-based and require the implementation of a
privacy program involving policies, procedures and the designation of an
individual or team with primary responsibility for privacy law compliance.  Mandatory
breach notification to affected individuals is a requirement under some laws. 
Mandatory breach notification to the applicable regulator is a requirement in
some provinces.  Some laws require notification where personal information is
processed or stored outside of Canada.  One provincial law (in Quebec) provides
for fines where an organization fails to perform due diligence before
outsourcing activities involving personal information to a service provider
outside of the province.

The powers of privacy regulators and penalties for violations of privacy law
vary according to the applicable law or are left to the courts.  To date,
monetary penalties granted have been on the low side, although that is changing
with civil actions for breach of privacy and may change further as a result of
class action activity.  There are over 60 privacy class actions which have been
filed in Canada over recent years although none have yet been decided on their
merits.  Regulators have the authority to make public the identity of a
custodian that has been found to have committed a breach, so there is a
reputational risk associated with privacy law violations even where no monetary
damages are incurred. The notification of residents (mandatory under some
privacy laws) and other activities required to manage a privacy breach can give
rise to significant costs.

Other Legislation

Retirement homes may be
subject to residential tenancy laws, such that there can be restrictions on
rent increases and termination of tenancies, for instance.  Other provincial
and/or municipal laws applicable to fire safety, food services, zoning, occupational
health and safety, public health, and the provision of community health care
and funded long-term/post-acute care may also apply to retirement homes.

Taxation

U.S. Federal Income Tax
Considerations

General

We elected to be taxed as
a REIT commencing with our first taxable year. We intend to continue to operate
in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no guarantee that we
will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for subsequent years. Qualification
and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety of complex
qualification tests imposed under federal income tax law with respect to
income, assets, distribution level and diversity of share ownership. There can
be no assurance that we will be owned and organized and will operate in a
manner so as to qualify or remain qualified.

Failure to Qualify as a
REIT

If we fail to qualify for
taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income
tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Distributions to
stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as a REIT will not be deductible
nor will any particular amount of distributions be required to be made in any
year. All distributions to stockholders will be taxable as ordinary income to
the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits allocable to these
distributions and, subject to certain limitations, will be eligible for the
dividends received deduction for corporate stockholders. Unless entitled to
relief under specific statutory provisions, we also will be disqualified from
taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which
qualification was lost. It is not possible to state whether in all
circumstances we would be entitled to statutory relief. Failure to qualify for
even one year could result in our need to incur indebtedness or liquidate
investments in order to pay potentially significant resulting tax liabilities.

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
(“Tax Act”)


The Tax Act made significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws
applicable to businesses and their owners, including REITs and their
shareholders.  Congressional leaders have recognized that the process of
adopting extensive tax legislation in a short amount of time without hearings
and substantial time for review may have led to drafting errors, issues needing
clarification and unintended consequences that may need to be addressed
subsequent tax legislation.  It is unknown when Congress may address these
issues or when the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) may issue guidance
regarding the interpretation and implementation of the Tax Act.  We cannot
predict what impact future legislation and guidance will have on us or our
shareholders.

Internet Access to Our SEC Filings

Our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as our proxy
statements and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are made available, free of charge,
on the Internet at www.welltower.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after
they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We routinely post important
information on our website at

www.welltower.com

in
the “Investors” section, including corporate and investor presentations and
financial information.  We intend to use our website as a means of
disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our
disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included
on our website under the heading “Investors.”  Accordingly, investors
should monitor such portion of our website in addition to following our press
releases, public conference calls, and filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The information on our website is not incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included
as an inactive textual reference only.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form
10-K and the documents incorporated by reference contain statements that
constitute “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When we use words such as “may,”
“will,” “intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,”
“estimate” or similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical
matters, we are making forward-looking statements. In particular, these
forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those relating to
our opportunities to acquire, develop or sell properties; our ability to close
our anticipated acquisitions, investments or dispositions on currently anticipated
terms, or within currently anticipated timeframes; the expected performance of
our operators/tenants and properties; our expected occupancy rates; our ability
to declare and to make distributions to stockholders; our investment and
financing opportunities and plans; our continued qualification as a REIT; and
our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds.

Forward-looking statements are
not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that
may cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations
discussed in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various
factors, including, but not limited to:

•

the status of the economy;

•

the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of
capital;

•

issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and
changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government
investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in
cost-effectively obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other
insurance;

•

changes in financing terms;

•

competition within the health care and seniors housing industries;

•

negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of
operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and
repay loans;

•

our ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results;

•

the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when
anticipated;

•

natural disasters and other acts of God affecting our properties;

•

our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;

•

our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets
sold;

•

operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies;

•

the cooperation of joint venture partners;

•

government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement
rates and operational requirements;

•

liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants;

•

unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future
investments or acquisitions;

•

environmental laws affecting our properties;

•

changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;

•

the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates;

•

our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT;

•

key management personnel recruitment and retention; and

•

the risks described under “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”


We
undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking
statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise.

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

This section discusses the
most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial
condition. It does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us,
our industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks, as
well as other risks and uncertainties that are not addressed in this section or
that we have not yet identified, actually occur, we could be materially
adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline. We group
these risk factors into three categories:

•

Risks arising from our business;

•

Risks arising from our capital structure; and

•

Risks arising from our status as a REIT.

Risks Arising from Our Business

Our investments in and acquisitions
of health care and seniors housing properties may be unsuccessful or fail to
meet our expectations

We are exposed to the risk
that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could
encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired
properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might
require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our
ongoing business. If we agree to provide construction funding to an
operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to
ensure completion of the project. Such expenditures may negatively affect our
results of operations. Investments in and acquisitions of seniors housing and
health care properties entail risks associated with real estate investments
generally, including risks that the investment will not achieve expected
returns, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements will prove
inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will fail to meet
performance expectations.  Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our
anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to
various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing,
on anticipated terms, or at all.  Health care properties are often highly
customizable and the development or redevelopment of such properties may
require costly tenant-specific improvements.  We also may be unable to quickly
and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of
portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an
adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  As a
result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve the economic benefit we
expect from acquisitions, investment, development and redevelopment
opportunities.  All of the foregoing could affect our ability to continue
paying dividends at the current rate.

Our investments in joint
ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over
these investments, our partners’ insolvency or failure to meet their
obligations, and disputes between us and our partners

We have entered into, and may
continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other
persons or entities. Joint venture investments involve risks that may not be
present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our
partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due
or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain
liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might
at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or
become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged
in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional
resources to resolve such dispute and could have an adverse impact on the
operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be
in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions
or requests. In addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint
venture to a third party may be restricted. In some instances, we and/or our
partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause
us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner’s interest, at a time when we
otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire
our partner’s interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash,
available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. In such event, we may
be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise
prefer to retain it. Joint ventures may require us to share decision-making
authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the
properties in the joint ventures. Even when we have a controlling interest,
certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale,
acquisition or financing of a property.

We are exposed to operational
risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that could
adversely affect our revenue and operations

We are exposed to various
operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that
may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues.
These risks include fluctuations in occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions;
competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure,
certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability
and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage;
state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the
availability and


increases in the cost of labor (as a
result of unionization or otherwise). Any one or a combination of these factors
may adversely affect our revenue and operations.

Decreases in our operators’
revenues or increases in our operators’ expenses could affect our operators’
ability to make payments to us

Our operators’ revenues are
primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement, if applicable. Expenses for these facilities are primarily
driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or
debt service. Revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to,
come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls.
Operating costs continue to increase for our operators. To the extent that any
decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a
property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our
operator and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. To the
extent the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an
impairment for such asset. Furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an
underperforming property, such sale may result in a loss. Any such impairment
or loss on sale would negatively affect our financial results.  All of the
foregoing could affect our ability to continue paying dividends at the current
rate.

Increased competition and
oversupply may affect our operators’ ability to meet their obligations to

us

The operators of our
properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties
and other health care providers that provide comparable services for residents
and patients, including on the basis of the scope and quality of care and
services provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of
the properties, price, and location.  Our operators are expected to encounter
increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract
residents or expand their businesses.  In addition, we expect that there will
continue to be a more than adequate inventory of seniors housing facilities.  We
cannot be certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to
achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all
of their obligations to us.  If our operators cannot compete effectively or if
there is an oversupply of facilities, their financial performance and ability
to meet their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our
financial results.

A severe cold and flu season,
epidemics or any other widespread illnesses could adversely affect the
occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net properties

Our and our operators’ revenues
are dependent on occupancy.  It is impossible to predict the severity of the
cold and flu season or the occurrence of epidemics or any other widespread
illnesses.  The occupancy of our seniors housing operating and triple-net
properties could significantly decrease in the event of a severe cold and flu
season, an epidemic or any other widespread illness.  Such a decrease could
affect the operating income of our seniors housing operating properties and the
ability of our triple-net operators to make payments to us.  In addition, a flu
pandemic could significantly increase the cost burdens faced by our operators,
including if they are required to implement quarantines for residents, and
adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us, which would
have a material adverse effect on our financial results.

The insolvency or bankruptcy
of our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors may adversely
affect our business, results of operations and financial condition

We are exposed to the risk
that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors may not be
able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which
may result in a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor bankruptcy
or insolvency, or that a tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor
might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons.
Although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a
tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our
loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand
immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the
collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws
afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or
reorganization. A tenant, operator, borrower, manager or other obligor in
bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings may be able to limit or delay our
ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid
principal and interest in the case of a loan, and to exercise other rights and
remedies. In addition, if a lease is rejected in a tenant bankruptcy, our claim
against the tenant may be limited by applicable provisions of the bankruptcy
law.  We may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and
maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment property, avoid the
imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a property to a new tenant.
In some instances, we have terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the
property to another tenant. In some of those situations, we have provided
working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the new obligor. If we
cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may take possession of
that property, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. Should
such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely
affected.  All of the foregoing could affect our ability to continue paying
dividends at the current rate.

We may not be able to timely
reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us

From time to time, we will
have cash available from the proceeds of sales of our securities, principal
payments on our loans receivable or the sale of properties, including
non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar
financial support


arrangements. In order to maintain
current revenues and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to
re-invest these proceeds in a timely manner. We compete for real estate
investments with a broad variety of potential investors, including other health
care REITs, real estate partnerships, health care providers, health care
lenders and other investors, including developers, banks, insurance companies,
pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of
whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do.
This competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability
to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us.

We
depend on Genesis HealthCare (“Genesis”) and Brookdale Senior Living (“Brookdale”)
for a significant portion of our revenues and any failure, inability or
unwillingness by them to satisfy obligations under their agreements with us
could adversely affect us

The properties we lease to
Genesis and Brookdale account for a significant portion of our revenues, and
because our leases with Genesis and Brookdale are triple-net leases, we also
depend on Genesis and Brookdale to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and
maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. We
cannot assure you that Genesis and Brookdale will have sufficient assets,
income and access to financing to enable them to make rental payments to us or
to otherwise satisfy their respective obligations under our leases, and any
failure, inability or unwillingness by Genesis or Brookdale to do so could have
an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition. Although the most recent publicly available financial statements of
Genesis reflect going concern disclosures, the operator remains current on rent
and the coverage remains above 1.0.  Genesis and Brookdale have also agreed to
indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims,
litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective
businesses, and we cannot assure you that Genesis and Brookdale will have
sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable
them to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations.  Genesis’s and
Brookdale’s failure to effectively conduct their operations or to maintain and
improve our properties could adversely affect their business reputations and
their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties,
which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition. Additionally, we have made real estate and other loans to
Genesis and their operational or other failures could adversely impact their
ability to repay these loans when due.  See Note 21 to our consolidated
financial statements for additional information regarding Genesis.

The properties managed by
Sunrise Senior Living, LLC (“Sunrise”) account for a significant portion of our
revenues and operating income and any adverse developments in its business or
financial condition could adversely affect us

As of December 31, 2017,
Sunrise managed 158 of our seniors housing operating properties.  These
properties account for a significant portion of our revenues, and we rely on
Sunrise to manage these properties efficiently and effectively.  We also rely
on Sunrise to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level
financial results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise
operate them in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all
applicable laws and regulations.  Any adverse developments in Sunrise’s business
or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently
and effectively, which could adversely affect our business, results of
operations, and financial condition.  Also, if Sunrise experiences any
significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties, such
difficulties could result in, among other things, acceleration of its
indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital or the commencement
of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code,
which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.

Ownership of property outside
the U.S. may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated
with our domestic operations

We have operations in Canada
and the U.K. International development, ownership, and operating activities
involve risks that are different from those we face with respect to our
domestic properties and operations. These risks include, but are not limited
to, any international currency gain recognized with respect to changes in
exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross
income test that we must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our
status as a REIT;

challenges with respect to
the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; changes in foreign political,
regulatory, and economic conditions (regionally, nationally and locally)
including, but not limited to, the U.K.’s June 2016 vote to exit the EU; challenges
in managing international operations; challenges of complying with a wide
variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to real
estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment and other civil and
criminal legal proceedings;

foreign ownership
restrictions with respect to operations in countries; differences in lending
practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide
financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and political and
economic instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and
regulations in the U.S. that affect foreign operations, including, but not
limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If we are unable to
successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and
operations, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely
affected.

If our tenants do not renew
their existing leases, or if we are required to sell properties for liquidity
reasons,

we may be unable to lease or sell the properties on
favorable terms, or at all


We
cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases at the end of
their lease terms, which expire at various times. If these leases are not
renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to occupy those properties
or sell them. There can be no assurance that we would be able to identify
suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new tenants on terms as
favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be able to lease those
properties at all.

Real estate investments are
relatively illiquid and most of the property we own is highly customized for
specific uses. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in
response to changes in operator, economic and other conditions will be limited.
No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property
that we are required to sell. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in
the performance of our investments could

adversely affect our financial condition and results
of operations. In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in
concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors
housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could
adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties
for a price or on terms acceptable to us.  All of the foregoing could affect
our ability to continue paying dividends at the current rate.

Our tenants, operators and managers may not have
the necessary insurance coverage to insure adequately against losses

We maintain or require our
tenants, operators and managers to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on
our properties and their operations with terms, conditions, limits and
deductibles that we believe are customary for similarly-situated companies in
our industry, and we frequently review our insurance programs and
requirements.  That said, we cannot assure you that we or our tenants,
operators or managers will continue to be able to maintain adequate levels of
insurance and required coverages or that we will continue to require the same
levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements,
which could adversely affect us in the event of a significant uninsured loss. 
Also, in recent years, long-term/post-acute care and seniors housing operators
and managers have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size
of patient care liability claims. As a result, general and professional
liability costs have increased in some markets. General and professional liability
insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect
the tenants’, operators’ and managers’ future

operations, cash flows and financial condition, and
may have a material adverse effect on the tenants’, operators’ and managers’
ability to meet their obligations to us.

Our ownership of properties
through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such

properties
upon breach or termination of the ground leases

We have acquired an interest
in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property
on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in
the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. As the lessee
under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property
upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease
by us.

The requirements of, or
changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare, Medicaid or
government funding, could have a material adverse effect on our obligors’
liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely
affect our obligors’ ability to meet their obligations to us

Some of our obligors’
businesses are affected by government reimbursement. To the extent that an
operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government
payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to
statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of
program overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings,
policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or
carriers, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect
to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any
ongoing government investigations and audits at such property. In recent years,
government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due
to budgetary pressures. Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of
paramount importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any
assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms
may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. There can
be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for
services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives
reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on
the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have
a material adverse effect on an obligor’s liquidity, financial condition and
results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor
to meet its obligations to us.

The Health
Reform Laws, provide those states that expand their Medicaid coverage to
otherwise eligible state residents with incomes at or below 138% of the federal
poverty level with an increased federal medical assistance percentage,
effective January 1, 2014, when certain conditions are met. Given that the
federal government substantially funds the Medicaid expansion, it is unclear
how many states will ultimately pursue this option, although, as of early
February

2018, more than

60% of
the states have expanded Medicaid coverage. The participation by states in the
Medicaid expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants’
revenues, through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their
ability to pay our tenants. We expect that the current Presidential
Administration and U.S. Congress will seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise
invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the Health Reform Laws, including
Medicaid expansion. Since taking office, President Trump has continued to
support the repeal of all or portions of the Health Reform Laws.  See
“Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States —
Reimbursement” above for additional information. If the operations, cash flows
or financial condition of our operators and tenants are


materially
adversely impacted by the Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our revenue
and operations may be adversely affected as well. More generally, and because
of the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health
care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and
budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching
legislative or regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business,
or that of our operators and tenants.

Our operators’ or tenants’
failure to comply with federal, state, province, local, and industry-regulated
licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could
adversely affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could adversely
affect our operators’ and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us

Our operators and tenants
generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and
industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations,
and standards. Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with any of these
laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial
of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion
from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the
facility. Such actions may have an effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability
to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. See “Item 1 —
Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States — Fraud & Abuse
Enforcement” above.

Many of our properties may
require a license, registration, and/or CON to operate. Failure to obtain a
license, registration, or CON, or loss of a required license, registration, or
CON would prevent a facility from operating in the manner intended by the
operators or tenants. These events could materially adversely affect our
operators’ or tenants’ ability to make rent or other obligatory payments to us.
State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the addition of
new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the construction
or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar
approval from a state agency. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government
Regulations — United States — Licensing and Certification” above.

The real estate market and
our business may be negatively impacted by changes to U.S. tax laws

The Tax Act adopted on
December 22, 2017 significantly changes the U.S. income tax rules for
individuals and corporations.  We are continuing to evaluate the impact of the
Tax Act and, as such, its implications for our business remain uncertain. 
Although the Tax Act involves comprehensive changes to the system of corporate
income tax, it does not substantively change the manner in which REITs are
taxed.  Although numerous provisions of the Tax Act do affect REITs, we are
generally not subject to pay federal taxes applicable to regular corporations
if we comply with the tax regulations governing REIT status.  Nonetheless, the
Tax Act makes numerous changes to the individual income tax rules that may
affect the real estate market in the U.S., including limitations on the
deductibility of state and local property taxes, the elimination of the
deductibility of interest on new home equity loans and a reduction in the limit
for an individual’s mortgage interest expense to interest on $750,000 of
mortgages.  Although the impact of these changes is likely to be most
significant in the residential real estate market, rather than in the sectors
where we operate, the effects of these changes on the broader real estate
market in the geographic areas in which we operate and on our tenants remain
uncertain.

Changes
in applicable tax regulations could negatively affect our financial results

We are subject to taxation in
the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Because, even with the passage of
the Tax Act, the U.S. maintains a worldwide corporate tax system, the foreign
and U.S. tax systems are somewhat interdependent.  Longstanding international
norms that determine each country’s jurisdiction to tax cross-border
international trade are evolving, such as the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting
project (“BEPS”) currently being undertaken by the G8, G20 and Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  Tax changes pursuant to BEPS could
reduce the ability of our foreign subsidiaries to deduct for foreign tax purposes
the interest they pay on loans from us, thereby, increasing the foreign tax
liability of the subsidiaries; it is also possible that foreign countries could
increase their withholding taxes on dividends and interest.  Given the
unpredictability of these possible changes and their potential interdependency,
it is very difficult to assess the overall effect of such potential tax changes
on our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our
financial results.

Unfavorable resolution of
pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition

From time to time, we may be
directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims.
We may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our
actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such
operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us
harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in
connection with their respective businesses. An unfavorable resolution of
pending or future litigation or legal proceedings may have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless
of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and
significantly divert the attention of management. There can be no assurance
that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of,
pending or future litigation. In addition, pending litigation or future
litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead to
increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations.

Development, redevelopment
and construction risks could affect our profitability


At any given time, we may be
in the process of constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will
require a CON and license before they can be utilized by the operator for their
intended use. The operator also may need to obtain Medicare and Medicaid
certification and enter into Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements and/or
third party payor contracts. In the event that the operator is unable to obtain
the necessary CON, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts
after the completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able
to earn any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains
a license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary
provider agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator
that is able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use
and the necessary provider agreements or contracts.

In connection with our
renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we
may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning,
land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and
authorizations. These factors could result in increased costs or our
abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may not be able to obtain
financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our
development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and
lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt
service expense or construction costs. Additionally, the time frame required
for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we
may have to wait years for significant cash returns. Because we are required to
make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations
or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money
to fund such distributions. Newly developed and acquired properties may not
produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall
financial performance.

In deciding whether to acquire
or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected
future performance of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on
our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs. If
our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a
result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the property may fail to
perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs
of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be
inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals.
Additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the
cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating
expenses and debt service associated with that property.

We may
experience losses caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters,
which could result in an increase of our or our tenants’ cost of insurance, a
decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we
have invested in a property

We maintain
or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our
properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are
appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage, and we frequently
review our insurance programs and requirements. However, a large number of our
properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to revenue loss, cost
increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters
such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and floods. We believe, given
current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside consultants, that
our and our tenants’ insurance coverage is appropriate to cover reasonably
anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes,
floods and other severe weather conditions and natural disasters, including the
effects of climate change. Nevertheless, we are always subject to the risk that
such insurance will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity
of the event and the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a
significant portion of the losses. These losses may lead to an increase of our
and our tenants’ cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from
an affected property and a loss of all or a portion of the capital we have
invested in an affected property.  In addition, we or our tenants may not
purchase insurance under certain circumstances if the cost of insurance
exceeds, in our or our tenants’ judgment, the value of the coverage relative to
the risk of loss.

We may incur costs to
remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an
adverse effect on our or our obligors’ business or financial condition

Under various laws, owners or
operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release
of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property
damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental
contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. We may become liable to
reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the
contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the
person’s relationship to the property. Our tenants or borrowers are primarily
responsible for the condition of the property. Moreover, we review
environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior
to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to meet the “all
appropriate inquiry” standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent
purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such
assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to
material environmental contamination. However, environmental liabilities may be
present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination,
which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial
condition or the business or financial condition of our obligors.

Cybersecurity incidents could
disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information

Our business is at risk from
and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain
unauthorized access to our confidential data, and other electronic security breaches,
including those resulting from human error, product defects and technology
failures. Such cyber-attacks can range from individual attempts to gain
unauthorized access to our information technology systems to


more sophisticated security threats. While we employ a
number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, there is no
guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber-attack.
Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business, compromise the confidential
information of our employees, operators, tenants and partners, damage our
reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.

Our success depends on key
personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed

Our success depends on the
continued availability and service of key personnel, including our executive
officers and other highly qualified employees, and competition for their
talents is intense.  We cannot assure you that we will retain our key personnel
or that we will be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified employees
in the future.  Losing any key personnel could, at least temporarily, have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of
operations.

Risks Arising from Our Capital
Structure

Our certificate of
incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions

Our certificate of
incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on
share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval
requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for
or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our
incumbent Board of Directors. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or
discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock.

We may become more leveraged

Permanent financing for our
investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of
debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt.
The incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more
leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash
flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn
in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4)
negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating
agencies.

Cash available for distributions
to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend contributions at expected
levels and are made at the discretion of the Board of Directors

If cash available for
distribution generated by our assets decreases due to dispositions or
otherwise, we may be unable to make dividend distributions at expected levels. 
Our inability to make expected distributions would likely result in a decrease
in the market price of our common stock.  All distributions are made at the
discretion of our Board of Directors in accordance with Delaware law and depend
on our earnings, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to
us, our expectation of our future capital requirements and operating
performance, restrictive covenants in our financial and other contractual
arrangements, maintenance of our REIT qualification, restrictions under
Delaware law and other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from
time to time.  Additionally, our ability to make distributions will be
adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant
adverse events, occur.

We are subject to covenants
in our debt agreements that could have a material adverse impact on our
business, results of operations and financial condition

Our debt agreements contain
various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things,
these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum
net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness,
create liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants
could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable
indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against
such instruments. These defaults could have a material adverse impact on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

Limitations on our ability to
access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future
investments or to meet our obligations and commitments

We cannot assure you that we
will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to
meet our obligations and commitments as they mature.  Our access to capital
depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control,
including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions;
the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential
future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our capital
stock and the credit ratings of our debt securities; the financial stability of
our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us
or their willingness to make additional loans to us; changes in the credit
ratings on U.S. government debt securities; or default or delay in payment by
the U.S. of its obligations. If our access to capital is limited by these
factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our ability to acquire
properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund operations or make
distributions to our stockholders.


Downgrades
in our credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our cost and
availability of capital

We plan to manage the Company
to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there
can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit
ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the
rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability
of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on our results
of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.

Increases in interest rates
could have a material adverse impact on our cost of capital

An increase in interest rates
may increase interest cost on new and existing variable rate debt.  Such
increases in the cost of capital could adversely impact our ability to finance
operations, the acquisition and development of properties, and refinance
existing debt.  Additionally, increased interest rates may also result in less
liquid property markets, limiting our ability to sell existing assets.

Fluctuations in the value of
foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and
financial position

Currency exchange rate
fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial position. We
generate a portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as
the Canadian dollar and the British pound sterling. Although we may enter into
foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local
currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the
value of foreign currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency
fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us.

Our entry into hedge agreements
may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign
currency exchange rates

We enter into hedge agreements
from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign
currency exchange rate volatility. These agreements involve risks, such as the
risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these
arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing
our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates.
When we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will
not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to
hedge. If such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely
affected.

Risks Arising from Our Status as
a REIT

We might fail to qualify or
remain qualified as a REIT

We intend to operate as a REIT
under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and believe
we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. If we lose our status as
a REIT, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially
reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution
to our stockholders because:

•

we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in
computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at
regular corporate rates;

•

we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly
increased state and local taxes; and

•

unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could
not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the
year during which we were disqualified.

Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a
number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill
them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of U.S. federal
and other income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the
amount we could distribute to our stockholders. If we do not qualify as a REIT,
we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-REIT
is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain REIT
status or avoid an excise tax. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT,
all distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to
the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although
corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction,
and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally
applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 20%) with
respect to distributions.

As a result of all these
factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to
implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our
common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly
technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial
and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual
matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our
ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we believe that we qualify as a
REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified
as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

Certain subsidiaries might
fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT


We
own interests in a number of entities which have elected to be taxed as REITs
for U.S. federal income tax purposes, some of which we consolidate for
financial reporting purposes but each of which is treated as a separate REIT
for federal income tax purposes (each a “Subsidiary REIT”).  To qualify as a
REIT, each Subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT
qualification requirements under the Code, together with all other rules
applicable to REITs.  Provided that each Subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT,
our interests in the Subsidiary REITs will be treated as qualifying real estate
assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests.  If a Subsidiary REIT fails to
qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, such Subsidiary REIT will be subject to
federal and state income taxes and may not be able to qualify as a REIT for the
four subsequent taxable years.  Any such failure could have an adverse effect
on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our
ability to qualify as a REIT, unless we are able to avail ourselves of certain
relief provisions.

The 90% annual distribution
requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in
otherwise beneficial transactions

To comply with the 90%
distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible
excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. Although we
anticipate that we generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to
enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that,
from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to
meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute
such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation.
This may be due to timing differences between the actual receipt of income and
actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of
that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income,
on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal
amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash
deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to
enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In the event that timing
differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow
funds, issue additional equity securities (although we cannot assure you that
we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute
other property or securities or engage in another transaction intended to
enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements. This may require us to
raise additional capital to meet our obligations.

The lease of qualified health
care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to special requirements

We lease certain qualified
health care properties to taxable REIT subsidiaries (or limited liability
companies of which the taxable REIT subsidiaries are members), which lessees
contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care
operations at these properties. The rents from this taxable REIT subsidiary
lessee structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they
are paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property
with a taxable REIT subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible
independent contractor (as defined in the Code). If any of these conditions are
not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents.

If certain sale-leaseback
transactions are not characterized by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) as
“true leases,” we may be subject to adverse tax consequences

We have purchased certain
properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may
enter into similar transactions in the future. We intend for any such
sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease
will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as
the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However,
depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the IRS might take the
position that the transaction is not a “true lease” but is more properly
treated in some other manner. In the event any sale-leaseback transaction is
challenged and successfully re-characterized by the IRS, we would not be
entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and

cost recovery generally available to an owner of
property. Furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction were so
re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT asset tests or income tests
and, consequently, could lose our REIT status effective with the year of
re-characterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could
be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the REIT annual
distribution requirements for a taxable year.

We could be subject to
changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax
legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities

We are subject to taxes in the
U.S. and foreign jurisdictions.  Our analysis of the Tax Act may be impacted by
any corrective legislation and any guidance provided by the U.S. Treasury, the IRS
or by the General Explanation of the Tax Act, which is under preparation by the
Staff of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.  Our effective tax
rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with
differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets
and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation.  We are also
subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the IRS
and other tax authorities and governmental bodies.  We regularly assess the
likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine
the adequacy of our provision for taxes.  There can be no assurance as to the
outcome of these examinations.  If we were subject to review or examination by
the IRS or applicable foreign jurisdiction as the result of any new tax law
changes (including the recently enacted Tax Act) the ultimate determination of
which may change our taxes owed for an amount in excess of amounts previously
accrued or recorded, our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows
could be adversely affected.


Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

None.


Item 2.

Properties

We own
our corporate headquarters located at 4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615. We
also lease corporate offices in Canada, the United Kingdom and Luxembourg and
have ground leases relating to certain of our properties. The following table
sets forth certain information regarding the properties that comprise our
consolidated real property and real estate loan investments as of December 31,
2017 (dollars in thousands and annualized revenues adjusted for timing of
investment):

Triple-net

Seniors Housing Operating

Property Location

Number of Properties

Total Investment

Annualized Revenues

Number of Properties

Total Investment

Annualized Revenues

Alabama


$

34,374

$

4,198

-

$

-

$

-

Arizona


26,771

2,349


59,180

22,940

California


425,291

50,368


2,629,870

636,760

Colorado


253,330

22,718


137,842

39,864

Connecticut


162,800

20,314


420,700

135,459

District Of Columbia

-

-

-


62,508

14,169

Delaware


102,090

12,340


20,657

6,750

Florida


208,011

22,468


714,900

110,064

Georgia


21,769

4,435


119,906

35,284

Iowa


55,228

5,588


31,736

11,292

Idaho


21,801

3,547

-

-

-

Illinois


157,493

16,926


438,607

111,523

Indiana


462,707

50,889

-

-

-

Kansas


259,364

26,624


68,739

17,284

Kentucky


50,832

8,676


38,366

14,209

Louisiana


19,168

3,328


49,858

12,373

Massachusetts


185,084

32,601


1,124,085

253,943

Maryland


133,528

8,969


149,237

51,050

Maine

-

-

-


49,437

18,715

Michigan


96,814

10,165


108,521

24,860

Minnesota


222,546

18,809


111,503

21,595

Missouri


11,926



147,090

23,376

Mississippi


26,661

1,887

-

-

-

Montana


5,841


-

-

-

North Carolina


369,065

41,964


39,461

7,239

Nebraska


31,942

4,067

-

-

-

New Hampshire


51,186

7,599


117,062

29,986

New Jersey


1,229,004

132,850


233,766

65,306

New Mexico

-

-

-


18,199

1,375

Nevada


80,918

12,785


35,919

10,995

New York


147,412

15,993


334,217

87,283

Ohio


125,308

31,430


216,731

36,858

Oklahoma


225,662

20,181


39,679

3,374

Oregon


74,169

7,125

-

-

-

Pennsylvania


766,860

12,909


80,343

39,962

Rhode Island

-

-

-


59,215

20,345

South Carolina


31,653

5,698

-

-

-

Tennessee


39,654

3,839


48,830

15,741

Texas


387,507

48,760


928,494

205,362

Utah


30,108

2,582


16,315

10,546

Virginia


179,684

13,229


92,020

11,062

Vermont

-

-

-


26,501

6,710

Washington


318,379

33,773


403,565

78,355

Wisconsin


108,644

14,650

-

-

-

West Virginia


66,949

8,454

-

-

-

Total domestic


7,207,533

746,232


9,173,059

2,192,009

Canada


160,418

11,023


2,077,853

440,222

United Kingdom


1,220,528

107,728


1,542,910

312,009

Total international


1,380,946

118,751


3,620,763

752,231

Grand total


$

8,588,479

$

864,983


$

12,793,822

$

2,944,240


Outpatient Medical

Property Location

Number of Properties

Total Investment

Annualized Revenues

Alaska


$

23,414

$

2,423

Alabama


30,119

5,515

Arkansas


22,730

2,067

Arizona


62,649

9,453

California


866,727

91,492

Colorado


32,967

5,025

Connecticut


41,686

3,939

Florida


436,149

50,703

Georgia


169,521

28,178

Iowa


6,615

1,303

Illinois


49,505

8,749

Indiana


162,463

20,157

Kansas


72,142

12,695

Kentucky


7,297


Maryland


93,869

11,817

Maine


19,290

2,824

Michigan


30,159

4,141

Minnesota


165,704

26,127

Missouri


144,391

17,451

North Carolina


53,499

7,086

Nebraska


33,727

5,379

New Hampshire


13,344

1,758

New Jersey


266,546

44,194

New Mexico


31,760

3,731

Nevada


43,466

4,200

New York


109,193

7,214

Ohio


51,894

9,845

Oklahoma


23,633

3,318

Oregon


9,279

1,453

South Carolina


24,844

2,615

Tennessee


64,569

7,831

Texas


892,224

89,447

Virginia


31,824

4,846

Washington


170,665

20,456

Wisconsin


244,483

32,779

Total domestic


4,502,347

550,890

United Kingdom


286,434

25,880

Grand total


$

4,788,781

$

576,770

The
following table sets forth occupancy, coverages and average annualized revenues
for certain property types (excluding investments in unconsolidated entities):

Occupancy

(1)

Coverages

(1,2)

Average Annualized Revenues

(3)







Triple-net

(4)

85.8%

86.5%

1.34x

1.43x

$

15,663

$

16,841

per bed/unit

Seniors housing operating

(5)

86.5%

88.7%

n/a

n/a

60,828

59,627

per unit

Outpatient medical

(6)

93.7%

94.7%

n/a

n/a



per sq. ft.

(1) We use unaudited, periodic financial information provided
  solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate occupancy and coverages for
  properties other than outpatient medical buildings and have not independently
  verified the information.

(2) Represents the ratio of our triple-net customers' earnings
  before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees
  to contractual rent or interest due us. Data reflects the twelve months ended
  September 30 for the periods presented.

(3) Represents annualized revenues divided by total beds, units
  or square feet as presented in the tables above.

(4) Occupancy represents average quarterly operating occupancy
  based on the quarters ended September 30 and excludes properties that are unstabilized,
  closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.

(5) Occupancy represents average occupancy for the three months
  ended December 31.

(6) Occupancy represents the percentage of total rentable square
  feet leased and occupied (including month-to-month and holdover leases and
  excluding terminations) as of December 31.


The following table sets forth information
regarding lease expirations for certain portions of our portfolio as of
December 31, 2017 (dollars in thousands):

Expiration Year

(1)











Thereafter

Triple-net:

Properties


-










Base rent

(2)

$

107,517

$

-

$

17,740

$

16,576

$

9,895

$

8,348

$

10,842

$

76,589

$

63,138

$

95,730

$

482,337

% of base rent

12.1%

0.0%

2.0%

1.9%

1.1%

0.9%

1.2%

8.6%

7.1%

10.8%

54.3%

Units

8,715

-

1,225

1,620

1,220

1,432


4,489

3,662

4,647

26,065

% of units

16.2%

0.0%

2.3%

3.0%

2.3%

2.7%

1.3%

8.3%

6.8%

8.6%

48.5%

Outpatient medical:

Square feet

2,382,066

1,173,527

1,312,277

1,502,213

1,701,977

1,048,663

1,143,704

736,777

1,133,674

402,904

4,359,985

Base rent

(2)

$

50,744

$

32,011

$

35,425

$

39,984

$

45,079

$

28,599

$

32,946

$

21,255

$

28,705

$

11,425

$

98,411

% of base rent

12.0%

7.5%

8.3%

9.4%

10.6%

6.7%

7.8%

5.0%

6.8%

2.7%

23.2%

Leases












% of leases

13.7%

13.4%

13.5%

11.6%

13.1%

8.8%

5.3%

4.7%

5.5%

3.4%

6.9%

(1) Excludes investments in unconsolidated entities. Investments
  classified as held for sale are included in 2018.

(2) The most recent monthly base rent including straight-line
  for leases with fixed escalators or annual cash rents with contingent
  escalators.  Base rent does not include tenant recoveries or amortization of
  above and below market lease intangibles.

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

From time to time, there
are various legal proceedings pending against us that arise in the ordinary
course of our business.  Management does not believe that the resolution of any
of these legal proceedings either individually or in the aggregate will have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial
condition.  Further, from time to time, we are party to certain legal
proceedings for which third parties, such as tenants, operators and/or managers
are contractually obligated to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless.  In some
of these matters, the indemnitors have insurance for the potential damages.  In
other matters, we are being defended by tenants and other obligated third
parties and these indemnitors may not have sufficient insurance, assets, income
or resources to satisfy their defense and indemnification obligations to us. 
The unfavorable resolution of such legal proceedings could, individually or in
the aggregate, materially adversely affect the indemnitors’ ability to satisfy
their respective obligations to us, which, in turn, could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 
It is management’s opinion that there are currently no such legal proceedings
pending that will, individually or in the aggregate, have such a material
adverse effect. Despite management’s view of the ultimate resolution of these
legal proceedings, we may have significant legal expenses and costs associated
with the defense of such matters.  Further, management cannot predict the
outcome of these legal proceedings and if management’s expectation regarding
such matters is not correct, such proceedings could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

Item 4.

Mine Safety
Disclosures

None.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for
Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder

Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

There were
4,761 stockholders of record as of January 31, 2018. The following table sets
forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low prices of our common stock
on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:WELL), and common dividends paid per
share:

Sales Price

Dividends Paid

High

Low

Per Share


First Quarter

$

71.17

$

64.63

$

0.87

Second Quarter

78.17

68.66

0.87

Third Quarter

75.91

69.77

0.87

Fourth Quarter

70.87

63.06

0.87


First Quarter

$

70.45

$

52.80

$

0.86

Second Quarter

76.24

66.55

0.86

Third Quarter

80.19

72.34

0.86

Fourth Quarter

74.85

59.39

0.86

Our Board of Directors has
approved a 2018 quarterly cash dividend rate of $0.87 per share of common stock
per quarter, commencing with the February 2018 dividend. The declaration and
payment of quarterly dividends remains subject to the review and approval of
the Board of Directors.


Stockholder Return Performance Presentation

Set forth below is a line
graph comparing the yearly percentage change and the cumulative total
stockholder return on our shares of common stock against the cumulative total
return of the S & P Composite-500 Stock Index and the FTSE NAREIT
Equity Index. As of December 31, 2017, 157 companies comprised the FTSE NAREIT
Equity Index, which consists of REITs identified by NAREIT as equity (those
REITs which have at least 75% of their investments in real property). The data
are based on the closing prices as of December 31 for each of the five years.
2012 equals $100 and dividends are assumed to be reinvested.

12/31/12

12/31/13

12/31/14

12/31/15

12/31/16

12/31/17

S
  & P 500

100.00

132.39

150.51

152.59

170.84

208.14

Welltower Inc.

100.00

91.58

136.01

128.23

132.55

132.81

FTSE
  NAREIT Equity

100.00

102.47

133.35

137.61

149.33

157.14

Except to the extent that we specifically incorporate
this information by reference, the foregoing Stockholder Return Performance
Presentation shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general
statement incorporating by reference this Annual Report on Form 10-K into
any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. This information shall not
otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.

Issuer Purchases of
  Equity Securities

Period

Total Number of Shares
  Purchased

(1)

Average Price Paid Per Share

Total Number of Shares
  Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs

(2)

Maximum Number of Shares
  that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs

October 1, 2017 through October 31, 2017

-

$

-

November 1, 2017 through November 30, 2017


68.46

December 1, 2017 through December 31, 2017

32,072

67.94

Totals

32,321

$

67.94

(1) During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the Company
  acquired shares of common stock held by employees who tendered owned shares
  to satisfy tax withholding obligations.

(2) No shares were purchased as part of publicly announced plans
  or programs.


Item 6.

Selected
Financial Data

The
following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 2017
are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements (in thousands,
except per share data):

Year Ended December 31,






Operating Data

Revenues

$

2,880,608

$

3,343,546

$

3,859,826

$

4,281,160

$

4,316,641

Expenses

2,778,363

2,959,333

3,223,709

3,571,907

4,017,025

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and income
  (loss) from unconsolidated entities

102,245

384,213

636,117

709,253

299,616

Income tax (expense) benefit

(7,491)

1,267

(6,451)

19,128

(20,128)

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

(8,187)

(27,426)

(21,504)

(10,357)

(83,125)

Income from continuing operations

86,567

358,054

608,162

718,024

196,363

Income from discontinued operations, net

51,713

7,135

-

-

-

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

-

147,111

280,387

364,046

344,250

Net income

138,280

512,300

888,549

1,082,070

540,613

Preferred stock dividends

66,336

65,408

65,406

65,406

49,410

Preferred stock redemption charge

-

-

-

-

9,769

Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests

(6,770)


4,799

4,267

17,839

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

78,714

$

446,745

$

818,344

$

1,012,397

$

463,595

Other Data

Average number of common shares outstanding:

Basic

276,929

306,272

348,240

358,275

367,237

Diluted

278,761

307,747

349,424

360,227

369,001

Per Share Data

Basic:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common
  stockholders

$

0.10

$

1.44

$

2.35

$

2.83

$

1.26

Discontinued operations, net

0.19

0.02

-

-

-

Net income attributable to common stockholders *

$

0.28

$

1.46

$

2.35

$

2.83

$

1.26

Diluted:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common
  stockholders

$

0.10

$

1.43

$

2.34

$

2.81

$

1.26

Discontinued operations, net

0.19

0.02

-

-

-

Net income attributable to common stockholders *

$

0.28

$

1.45

$

2.34

$

2.81

$

1.26

Cash distributions per common share

$

3.06

$

3.18

$

3.30

$

3.44

$

3.48

December 31,

Balance Sheet Data






Net real estate investments

$

21,680,221

$

22,851,196

$

26,888,685

$

26,563,629

$

26,171,077

Total assets

23,026,666

24,962,923

29,023,845

28,865,184

27,944,445

Total long-term obligations

10,594,723

10,776,640

12,967,686

12,358,245

11,731,936

Total liabilities

11,235,296

11,403,465

13,664,877

13,185,279

12,643,799

Total preferred stock

1,017,361

1,006,250

1,006,250

1,006,250

718,503

Total equity

11,756,331

13,473,049

15,175,885

15,281,472

14,925,452

* Amounts may not sum due to rounding


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

EXECUTIVE
  SUMMARY

Company Overview

Business Strategy

Key Transactions

Key Performance Indicators,
  Trends and Uncertainties

Corporate Governance






LIQUIDITY
  AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Sources and Uses of Cash

Off-Balance Sheet
  Arrangements

Contractual Obligations

Capital Structure





RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS

Summary

Triple-net

Seniors Housing Operating

Outpatient Medical

Non-Segment/Corporate






OTHER

Non-GAAP Financial Measures


Critical Accounting Policies



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The
following discussion and analysis is based primarily on the consolidated
financial statements of Welltower Inc. presented in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) for the periods
presented and should be read together with the notes thereto contained in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other important factors are identified in
“Item 1 — Business” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” above.

Executive Summary

Company Overview

Welltower
Inc. (NYSE:WELL), an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is
driving the transformation of health care infrastructure.  The Company invests
with leading seniors housing operators, post-acute providers and health systems
to fund the real estate and infrastructure needed to scale innovative care
delivery models and improve people’s wellness and overall health care
experience.  Welltower

TM

, a real estate investment trust (“REIT”),
owns interests in properties concentrated in major, high-growth markets in the
United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of
seniors housing and post-acute communities and outpatient medical properties. 
Our capital programs, when combined with comprehensive planning, development
and property management services, make us a single-source solution for
acquiring, planning, developing, managing, repositioning and monetizing real
estate assets.

The following table
summarizes our consolidated portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2017
(dollars in thousands):

Percentage of

Number of

Type of Property

NOI

(1)

NOI

Properties

Triple-net

$

967,084

43.3%


Seniors housing operating

880,026

39.5%


Outpatient medical

384,068

17.2%


Totals

$

2,231,178

100.0%

1,286

(1) Represents consolidated NOI and excludes our share of
  investments in unconsolidated entities.  Entities in which we have a joint
  venture with a minority partner are shown at 100% of the joint venture
  amount. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information and
  reconciliation.

Business Strategy

Our
primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder
value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create
opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of
annual increases in net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these
objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health
care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type,
relationship and geographic location.

Substantially
all of our revenues are derived from operating lease rentals, resident fees/services,
and interest earned on outstanding loans receivable. These items represent our
primary sources of liquidity to fund distributions and depend upon the
continued ability of our obligors to make contractual rent and interest
payments to us and the profitability of our operating properties. To the extent
that our obligors/partners experience operating difficulties and become unable
to generate sufficient cash to make payments or operating distributions to us,
there could be a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
operations, liquidity and/or financial condition. To mitigate this risk, we
monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of
property. Our asset management process for seniors housing properties generally
includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating data for
each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property
inspections, and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real
estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property
management division manages and monitors the outpatient medical portfolio with
a comprehensive process including review of tenant relations, lease
expirations, the mix of health service providers, hospital/health system
relationships, property performance, capital improvement needs, and market
conditions among other things. We evaluate the operating environment in each
property’s market to determine the likely trend in operating performance of the
facility.  When we identify unacceptable trends, we seek to mitigate, eliminate
or transfer the risk. Through these efforts, we are generally able to intervene
at an early stage to address any negative trends, and in so doing, support both
the collectability of revenue and the value of our investment.

In
addition to our asset management and research efforts, we also structure our relevant
investments to help mitigate payment risk. Operating leases and loans are
normally credit enhanced by guaranties and/or letters of credit. In addition,
operating leases are typically structured as master leases and loans are
generally cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate
loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its
affiliates.

For
the year ended December 31, 2017, rental income and resident fees/services represented
33% and 64%, respectively, of total revenues.  Substantially all of our
operating leases are designed with escalating rent structures. Leases with
fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line
basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment.
Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally
recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. Our
yield on loans receivable depends upon a number of factors, including the
stated interest rate, the average principal amount outstanding during the term
of the loan, and any interest rate adjustments.

Our
primary sources of cash include rent and interest receipts, resident fees/services,
borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility, public issuances of
debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment dispositions, and
principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include
dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and
interest), real


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

property investments (including
acquisitions, capital expenditures, construction advances, and transaction
costs), loan advances, property operating expenses, and general and
administrative expenses.  Depending upon the availability and cost of external
capital, we believe our liquidity is sufficient to fund these uses of cash.

We
also continuously evaluate opportunities to finance future investments.  New
investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings under our primary
unsecured credit facility, internally generated cash and the proceeds from
investment dispositions. Our investments generate cash from net operating
income and principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent financing for
future investments, which replaces funds drawn under our primary unsecured
credit facility, has historically been provided through a combination of the
issuance of public debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption
of secured debt.

Depending
upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in
the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate
returns to our stockholders. It is also likely that investment dispositions may
occur in the future. To the extent that investment dispositions exceed new
investments, our revenues and cash flows from operations could be adversely
affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds from any investment dispositions
in new investments. To the extent that new investment requirements exceed our
available cash on-hand, we expect to borrow under our primary unsecured credit
facility. At December 31, 2017, we had $243,777,000 of cash and cash
equivalents, $65,526,000 of restricted cash and $2,258,635,000 of available
borrowing capacity under our primary unsecured credit facility.

Key Transactions

Capital

.

During the year ended December 31, 2017, we extinguished
$1,080,268,000 of secured debt at a blended average interest rate of 5.2%.  In
addition, we redeemed all 11,500,000 shares of our 6.5% Series J Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock.

Also, for the year ended
December 31, 2017,

we raised $611,443,000 through our dividend
reinvestment program and our Equity Shelf Program (as defined below).  The
capital raised, in combination with available cash and borrowing capacity under
our primary unsecured credit facility and proceeds from dispositions, supported
new investment activity for the year.

Investments

. The following summarizes our property acquisitions
and joint venture investments made during the year ended December 31, 2017
(dollars in thousands):

Properties

Investment Amount

(1)

Capitalization Rates

(2)

Book Amount

(3)

Triple-net


$

170,076

6.4%

$

281,875

Seniors housing operating


375,400

6.6%

539,173

Outpatient medical


196,544

5.9%

224,232

Totals


$

742,020

6.3%

$

1,045,280

(1) Represents stated pro rata purchase price including cash and
  any assumed debt but excludes fair value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP.

(2) Represents annualized contractual or projected net operating
  income to be received in cash divided by investment amounts.

(3) Represents amounts recorded on our books including fair
  value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP.  See Note 3 to our consolidated
  financial statements for additional information.

Dispositions

. The following summarizes property
dispositions made during the year ended December 31, 2017 (dollars in
thousands):

Properties

Proceeds

(1)

Capitalization Rates

(2)

Book Amount

(3)

Triple-net


$

1,190,791

6.9%

$

916,689

Seniors housing operating


105,349

4.6%

74,832

Outpatient medical


23,590

8.3%

19,697

Totals


$

1,319,730

6.7%

$

1,011,218

(1) Represents pro rata proceeds received upon disposition
  including any seller financing.

(2) Represents annualized contractual net operating income that
  was being received in cash at date of disposition divided by disposition
  proceeds.

(3) Represents carrying value of assets at time of disposition. 
  See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements for additional
  information.

Dividends

.
Our Board of Directors announced the 2018 annual cash dividend of $3.48 per common
share ($0.87 per share quarterly), consistent with 2017, beginning in February
2018.  The dividend declared for the quarter ended December 31, 2017 represents
the 187

th

consecutive quarterly dividend payment.

Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties

We
utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the various aspects of
our business. These indicators are discussed below and relate to operating
performance, credit strength and concentration risk.  Management uses these key
performance indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our
historical operating results, in making operating decisions, and for budget
planning


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

purposes.

Operating
Performance

. We believe that net income and net income attributable to
common stockholders (“NICS”) per the Statement of Comprehensive Income are the
most appropriate earnings measures. Other useful supplemental measures of our
operating performance include funds from operations attributable to common
stockholders (“FFO”), consolidated net operating income (“NOI”) and same store
NOI (“SSNOI”); however, these supplemental measures are not defined by U.S.
GAAP. Please refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for
further discussion and reconciliations. These earnings measures are widely used
by investors and analysts in the valuation, comparison, and investment
recommendations of companies. The following table reflects the recent
historical trends of our operating performance measures for the periods
presented (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Net income

$

888,549

$

1,082,070

$

540,613

Net income attributable to common stockholders

818,344

1,012,397

463,595

Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders

1,409,640

1,582,940

1,165,576

Consolidated net operating income

2,237,569

2,404,177

2,232,716

Same store net operating income

1,523,666

1,499,511

1,519,193

Credit Strength.

We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios
and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet
capitalization is related to long-term debt, net of cash and Internal Revenue
Code (“IRC”) section 1031 deposits. The coverage ratios indicate our ability to
service interest and fixed charges (interest, secured debt principal
amortization and preferred dividends). We expect to maintain capitalization
ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain a capital structure consistent
with our current profile. The coverage ratios are based on adjusted earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“AEBITDA”). Please refer
to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further discussion
and reconciliation of these measures. Leverage ratios and coverage ratios are
widely used by investors, analysts and rating agencies in the valuation,
comparison, investment recommendations, and rating of companies. The following
table reflects the recent historical trends for our credit strength measures
for the periods presented:

Year Ended December 31,




Net debt to book capitalization ratio

44.8%

42.9%

42.9%

Net debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio

39.5%

37.4%

36.3%

Net debt to market capitalization ratio

32.5%

31.1%

31.2%

Adjusted interest coverage ratio

4.24x

4.21x

4.36x

Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio

3.35x

3.34x

3.54x

Concentration Risk

. We
evaluate our concentration risk in terms of NOI by property mix, relationship
mix and geographic mix. Concentration risk is a valuable measure in
understanding what portion of our NOI could be at risk if certain sectors were
to experience downturns. Property mix measures the portion of our NOI that
relates to our various property types. Relationship mix measures the portion of
our NOI that relates to our top five relationships.  Geographic mix measures
the portion of our NOI that relates to our top five states (or international
equivalents). The following table reflects our recent historical trends of
concentration risk by NOI for the periods indicated below:


December 31,

(1)




Property mix:

Triple-net

54%

50%

43%

Seniors housing operating

31%

34%

40%

Outpatient medical

15%

16%

17%

Relationship mix:

Sunrise Senior Living

(2)

13%

13%

14%

Genesis HealthCare

17%

16%

9%

Revera

(2)

5%

6%

7%

Brookdale Senior Living

7%

6%

7%

Benchmark Senior Living

4%

4%

4%

Remaining

54%

55%

59%

Geographic mix:

California

13%

10%

13%

United Kingdom

9%

8%

9%

New Jersey

8%

8%

8%

Canada

8%

7%

8%

Texas

7%

7%

7%

Remaining

55%

60%

55%

(1) Excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated entities
  and non-segment/corporate NOI. Entities in which we have a joint venture with
  a minority partner are shown at 100% of the joint venture amount.

(2) Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise Senior Living.
  See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for additional
  information.

We evaluate our key performance
indicators in conjunction with current expectations to determine if historical
trends are indicative of future results. Our expected results may not be
achieved and actual results may differ materially from our expectations.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results are
described in more detail in “Item 1 — Business — Cautionary Statement Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” and other sections of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management regularly monitors economic and
other factors to develop strategic and tactical plans designed to improve
performance and maximize our competitive position. Our ability to achieve our
financial objectives is dependent upon our ability to effectively execute these
plans and to appropriately respond to emerging economic and Company-specific
trends. Please refer to “Item 1 — Business,” “Item 1A — Risk Factors” in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of these risk factors.

Corporate
Governance

Maintaining
investor confidence and trust is important in today’s business environment. Our
Board of Directors and management are strongly committed to policies and
procedures that reflect the highest level of ethical business practices. Our
corporate governance guidelines provide the framework for our business
operations and emphasize our commitment to increase stockholder value while
meeting all applicable legal requirements. These guidelines meet the listing
standards adopted by the New York Stock Exchange and are available on the
Internet at www.welltower.com/investors/governance.  The information on our
website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Sources and Uses
of Cash

During
the fourth quarter of 2017, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2016-18, “Restricted Cash,” and ASU No. 2016-15, “Classification of Certain
Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.”  See Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements for further information.

Our primary sources of
cash include rent and interest receipts, resident fees/services, borrowings
under our primary unsecured credit facility, public issuances of debt and
equity securities, proceeds from investment dispositions, and principal
payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include dividend
distributions, debt service payments (including principal and interest), real
property investments (including acquisitions, capital expenditures,
construction advances and transaction costs), loan advances, property operating
expenses, and general and administrative expenses. These sources and uses of
cash are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and are
discussed in further detail below.  The following is a summary of our sources
and uses of cash flows for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Beginning cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash

$

553,423

$

422,690

$

(130,733)

-24%

$

607,220

$

184,530

44%

$

53,797

10%

Net cash provided from (used in):

Operating activities

1,382,599

1,639,064

256,465

19%

1,434,177

(204,887)

-13%

51,578

4%

Investing activities

(3,502,075)

(183,443)

3,318,632

-95%

154,581

338,024

n/a

3,656,656

n/a

Financing activities

1,997,318

(1,250,817)

(3,248,135)

n/a

(1,913,527)

(662,710)

53%

(3,910,845)

n/a

Effect of foreign currency translation

(8,575)

(20,274)

(11,699)

136%

26,852

47,126

n/a

35,427

n/a

Ending cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash

$

422,690

$

607,220

$

184,530

44%

$

309,303

$

(297,917)

-49%

$

(113,387)

-27%

Operating
Activities

. The change in net cash provided from operating
activities is attributable to changes in NOI, which is primarily due to
dispositions in 2016 and 2017, partially offset by acquisitions and annual rent
increasers.  Please see “Results of Operations” below for further discussion. 
For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, cash flows from
operations exceeded cash distributions to stockholders.

Investing Activities

.  The changes in net cash used in investing activities are
primarily attributable to net changes in real property investments, real estate
loans receivable, and investments in unconsolidated entities which are
summarized above in “Key Transactions in 2017.”  Please refer to Notes 3, 6,
and 7 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information.  The
following is a summary of cash used in non-acquisition capital improvement
activities for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

New development

$

244,561

$

403,131

$

158,570

65%

$

232,715

$

(170,416)

-42%

$

(11,846)

-5%

Recurring capital expenditures, tenant improvements and lease
  commissions

64,458

66,332

1,874

3%

-

(66,332)

-100%

(64,458)

-100%

Renovations, redevelopments and other capital improvements

123,294

152,814

29,520

24%

250,276

97,462

64%

126,982

103%

Total

$

432,313

$

622,277

$

189,964

44%

$

482,991

$

(139,286)

-22%

$

50,678

12%

The change in new development is primarily due to the number
and size of construction projects on-going during the relevant periods. 
Renovations, redevelopments and other capital improvements include expenditures
to maximize property value, increase net operating income, maintain a
market-competitive position, and/or achieve property stabilization.  Generally,
these expenditures have increased as a result of acquisitions, primarily in our
seniors housing operating segment.

Financing Activities

. The changes in net cash provided from financing activities are
primarily attributable to changes related to our long-term debt arrangements,
the issuance/redemptions of common and preferred stock, and dividend payments
which are summarized above in “Key Transactions in 2017.”  Please refer to
Notes 9, 10 and 13 of our consolidated financial statements for additional
information.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

At December 31, 2017, we
had investments in unconsolidated entities with our ownership generally ranging
from 10% to 50%. Please see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.  We use financial derivative instruments to hedge
interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Please see Note 11
to our consolidated financial statements for additional information.  At
December 31, 2017, we had fourteen outstanding letter of credit obligations.
Please see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for additional
information.

Contractual
Obligations

The
following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2017 (in thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Payments Due by Period

Contractual Obligations

Total


2019-2020

2021-2022

Thereafter

Unsecured revolving credit facility

(1)

$

719,000

$

-

$

-

$

719,000

$

-

Senior unsecured notes and term credit facilities:

(2)

U.S. Dollar senior unsecured notes

6,050,000

450,000

1,050,000

1,050,000

3,500,000

Canadian Dollar senior unsecured notes

(3)

239,674

-

239,674

-

-

Pounds Sterling senior unsecured notes

(3)

1,420,545

-

-

-

1,420,545

U.S. Dollar term credit facility

507,500

-

7,500

500,000

-

Canadian Dollar term credit facility

(3)

199,728

-

-

199,728

-

Secured debt:

(2,3)

Consolidated

2,618,408

396,588

707,184

456,634

1,058,002

Unconsolidated

753,807

31,087

133,312

36,628

552,780

Contractual interest obligations:

(4)

Unsecured revolving credit facility

80,485

20,121

40,243

20,121

-

Senior unsecured notes and term loans

(3)

3,124,832

359,943

665,295

510,717

1,588,877

Consolidated secured debt

(3)

502,477

96,372

145,563

101,972

158,570

Unconsolidated secured debt

(3)

194,923

28,840

51,220

41,856

73,007

Capital lease obligations

(5)

89,104

4,678

8,507

8,346

67,573

Operating lease obligations

(5)

1,125,098

17,871

35,675

34,184

1,037,368

Purchase obligations

(5)

441,647

304,188

137,459

-

-

Other long-term liabilities

(6)

2,704

1,475

1,229

-

-

Total contractual obligations

$

18,069,932

$

1,711,163

$

3,222,861

$

3,679,186

$

9,456,722

(1) Relates to our unsecured revolving credit facility with an
  aggregate commitment of $3,000,000,000. See Note 9 to our consolidated
  financial statements.

(2) Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not reflect
  unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected
  on the balance sheet.

(3) Based on foreign currency exchange rates in effect as of
  balance sheet date.

(4) Based on variable interest rates in effect as of December
  31, 2017.

(5) See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements.

(6) Primarily relates to payments to be made under a
  supplemental executive retirement plan for one former executive officer.

Capital Structure

Please
refer to “Credit Strength” above for our leverage and coverage ratio trends. 
Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of
default. Certain agreements require us to maintain financial ratios and minimum
net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness,
create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2017, we believe
we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements. None
of our debt agreements contain provisions for acceleration which could be
triggered by our debt ratings. However, under our primary unsecured credit
facility, the ratings on our senior unsecured notes are used to determine the
fees and interest charged.

We plan to manage the Company to maintain
compliance with our debt covenants and with a capital structure consistent with
our current profile. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or
all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and
availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on
our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.

On May 1, 2015, we
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) (1) an open-ended
automatic or “universal” shelf registration statement covering an indeterminate
amount of future offerings of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock,
depositary shares, warrants and units and (2) a registration statement in
connection with our enhanced dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) under which we
may issue up to 15,000,000 shares of common stock. As of January 31, 2018, 2,108,286
shares of common stock remained available for issuance under the DRIP registration
statement. We have entered into separate Equity Distribution Agreements with
each of Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, UBS Securities LLC and Wells Fargo
Securities, LLC relating to the offer and sale from time to time of up to
$1,000,000,000 aggregate amount of our common stock (“Equity Shelf Program”).  The
Equity Shelf Program also allows us to enter into forward sale agreements.  We
expect that, if entered into, we will physically settle each forward sale
agreement on one or more dates on or prior to the maturity date of that
particular forward sale agreement, in which case we will expect to receive per
share cash proceeds at settlement equal to the forward sale price under the
relevant forward sale agreement.  However, we may elect to cash settle or net
share settle a forward share agreement.  As of January 31, 2018, we had $784,083,000
of remaining capacity under the Equity Shelf Program and there were no
outstanding forward sales agreements. Depending upon market conditions, we
anticipate issuing securities under our registration statements to invest in
additional properties and to repay borrowings under our primary unsecured
credit facility.

Results of Operations

Summary

Our
primary sources of revenue include rent, resident fees/services, and interest
income. Our primary expenses include interest


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

expense,
depreciation and amortization, property operating expenses, other expenses, and
general and administrative expenses.  We evaluate our business and make
resource allocations on our three business segments: triple-net, seniors
housing operating and outpatient medical.  The primary performance measures for
our properties are NOI and SSNOI and other supplemental measures include FFO
and AEBITDA, which are further discussed below.  Please see Non-GAAP Financial
Measures for additional information and reconciliations.  The following is a
summary of our results of operations for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands, except per share amounts):

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,



Amount

%


Amount

%

Amount

%

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

818,344

$

1,012,397

$

194,053

24%

$

463,595

$

(548,802)

-54%

$

(354,749)

-43%

Net income

888,549

1,082,070

193,521

22%

540,613

(541,457)

-50%

(347,936)

-39%

Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders

1,409,640

1,582,940

173,300

12%

1,165,576

(417,364)

-26%

(244,064)

-17%

Adjusted EBITDA

2,113,258

2,256,864

143,606

7%

2,128,429

(128,435)

-6%

15,171

1%

Consolidated NOI

2,237,569

2,404,177

166,608

7%

2,232,716

(171,461)

-7%

(4,853)

0%

Same store NOI

1,523,666

1,499,511

(24,155)

-2%

1,519,193

19,682

1%

(4,473)

0%

Per share data (fully diluted):

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

2.34

$

2.81

$

0.47

20%

$

1.26

$

(1.55)

-55%

$

(1.08)

-46%

Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders

4.03

4.39

0.36

9%

3.16

(1.23)

-28%

(0.87)

-22%

Adjusted interest coverage ratio

4.24x

4.21x

-0.03x

-1%

4.36x

0.15x

4%

0.12x

3%

Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio

3.35x

3.34x

-0.01x

0%

3.54x

0.20x

6%

0.19x

6%

The following table represents the changes in outstanding
common stock for the period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2017 (in
thousands):

Year Ended

December 31, 2015

December 31, 2016

December 31, 2017

Totals

Beginning balance

328,790

354,778

362,602

328,790

Public offerings

19,550

-

-

19,550

Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

4,024

4,145

5,640

13,809

Senior note conversions

1,330

-

-

1,330

Preferred stock conversions

-

-



Redemption of equity membership units

-

-



Option exercises





Equity Shelf Program issuances


3,135

2,987

6,818

Other, net





Ending balance

354,778

362,602

371,732

371,732

Average number of shares outstanding:

Basic

348,240

358,275

367,237

Diluted

349,424

360,227

369,001

During the past three years,
inflation has not significantly affected our earnings because of the moderate
inflation rate. Additionally, a portion of our earnings are derived primarily
from long-term investments with predictable rates of return. These investments
are mainly financed with a combination of equity, senior unsecured notes,
secured debt, and borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility.
During inflationary periods, which generally are accompanied by rising interest
rates, our ability to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new
investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing costs. Presuming
the current inflation rate remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not
increase significantly, we believe that inflation will not impact the availability
of equity and debt financing for us.

Triple-net

The following is a summary of our NOI and SSNOI for the
triple-net segment for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

NOI

$

1,175,806

$

1,208,860

$

33,054

3%

$

967,084

$

(241,776)

-20%

$

(208,722)

-18%

Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties

(1)

(48,890)

(38,899)

9,991

-20%

(28,602)

10,297

-26%

20,288

-41%

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(2)

(498,131)

(574,049)

(75,918)

15%

(333,279)

240,770

-42%

164,852

-33%

SSNOI

(1)

$

628,785

$

595,912

$

(32,873)

-5%

$

605,203

$

9,291

2%

$

(23,582)

-4%

(1) Relates to 418 same store properties.

(2) Primarily relates to the acquisition of 74 properties and
  the conversion of 17 construction projects into revenue-generating properties
  subsequent to January 1, 2015 as well as 48 properties sold or held for sale
  at December 31, 2017.

The following is a summary of our results of operations for
the triple-net segment for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Rental income

$

1,094,827

$

1,112,325

$

17,498

2%

$

885,811

$

(226,514)

-20%

$

(209,016)

-19%

Interest income

74,108

90,476

16,368

22%

73,742

(16,734)

-18%

(366)

0%

Other income

6,871

6,059

(812)

-12%

7,531

1,472

24%


10%

1,175,806

1,208,860

33,054

3%

967,084

(241,776)

-20%

(208,722)

-18%

NOI

(1)

1,175,806

1,208,860

33,054

3%

967,084

(241,776)

-20%

(208,722)

-18%

Other expenses:

Interest expense

28,384

21,370

(7,014)

-25%

15,194

(6,176)

-29%

(13,190)

-46%

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

(58,427)


58,495

n/a

2,284

2,216

3259%

60,711

-104%

Depreciation and amortization

288,242

297,197

8,955

3%

243,830

(53,367)

-18%

(44,412)

-15%

Transaction costs

(2)

53,195

10,016

(43,179)

-81%

-

(10,016)

-100%

(53,195)

-100%

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

10,095


(9,232)

-91%

29,083

28,220

3270%

18,988

188%

Provision for loan losses

(3)

-

6,935

6,935

n/a

62,966

56,031

808%

62,966

n/a

Impairment of assets

(4)

2,220

20,169

17,949

809%

96,909

76,740

380%

94,689

4265%

Other expenses

(2)

35,648

-

(35,648)

-100%

116,689

116,689

n/a

81,041

227%

359,357

356,618

(2,739)

-1%

566,955

210,337

59%

207,598

58%

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and income
  (loss) from unconsolidated entities

816,449

852,242

35,793

4%

400,129

(452,113)

-53%

(416,320)

-51%

Income tax benefit (expense)

(4,244)

(1,087)

3,157

-74%

(4,291)

(3,204)

295%

(47)

1%

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

8,260

9,767

1,507

18%

19,428

9,661

99%

11,168

135%

Income from continuing operations

820,465

860,922

40,457

5%

415,266

(445,656)

-52%

(405,199)

-49%

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

(4)

86,261

355,394

269,133

312%

286,325

(69,069)

-19%

200,064

232%

Net income

906,726

1,216,316

309,590

34%

701,591

(514,725)

-42%

(205,135)

-23%

Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests

6,348

1,221

(5,127)

-81%

4,603

3,382

277%

(1,745)

-27%

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

900,378

$

1,215,095

$

314,717

35%

$

696,988

$

(518,107)

-43%

$

(203,390)

-23%

(1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.

(2) See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.

(3) See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements.

(4) See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.

The 2017 decrease
in rental income is primarily attributable to the disposition of properties
exceeding new acquisitions and conversions of newly constructed triple-net
properties. Certain of our leases contain annual rental escalators that are
contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) and/or changes in
the gross operating revenues of the tenant’s properties.  These escalators are
not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental income is
recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period.  If
gross operating revenues at our facilities and/or the CPI do not increase, a
portion of our revenues may not continue to increase.  Our leases could renew
above or below current rent rates, resulting in an increase or decrease in
rental income.  For the three months ended December 31, 2017, we had no triple-net
lease renewals but we had 25 leases with rental rate increasers ranging from
0.15% to 0.36% in our triple-net portfolio. The 2017 decrease in interest
income is primarily attributable to the volume of loan payoffs during 2016 and
2017 and the 2016 increase is attributable to higher loan volumes during the
majority of 2016.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

During the year ended December 31, 2017, we completed seven
triple-net construction projects totaling $283,472,000 or $347,818 per bed/unit
and two expansion projects totaling $10,336,000. The following is a summary of
triple-net construction projects pending as of December 31, 2017 (dollars in
thousands):

Location

Units/Beds

Commitment

Balance

Est. Completion

Alexandria,VA


$

60,156

$

46,631

2Q18

Exton, PA


34,175

18,560

2Q18

Westerville, OH


22,800

3,595

4Q18

Total


$

117,131

$

68,786

Total
interest expense represents secured debt interest expense and related fees. 
The change in secured debt interest expense is due to the net effect and timing
of assumptions, segment transitions, fluctuations in foreign currency rates,
extinguishments and principal amortizations.

The
fluctuations in loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt is primarily attributable
to the volume of extinguishments and terms of the related secured debt.

The
following is a summary of our triple-net secured debt principal activity for
the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2015

December 31, 2016

December 31, 2017

Weighted Avg.

Weighted Avg.

Weighted Avg.

Amount

Interest Rate

Amount

Interest Rate

Amount

Interest Rate

Beginning balance

$

670,769

5.337%

$

554,014

5.488%

$

594,199

4.580%

Debt issued

-

0.000%

166,155

2.205%

13,000

4.570%

Debt assumed

44,142

5.046%

-

0.000%

-

0.000%

Debt extinguished

(132,545)

4.695%

(118,500)

5.562%

(274,048)

5.954%

Foreign currency

(15,633)

5.315%

3,157

5.247%

20,186

2.909%

Principal payments

(12,719)

5.450%

(10,627)

5.682%

(5,863)

5.657%

Ending balance

$

554,014

5.488%

$

594,199

4.580%

$

347,474

3.546%

Monthly averages

$

551,803

5.518%

$

497,213

5.414%

$

408,688

3.909%

Depreciation and amortization decreased in 2017 primarily
as a result of the disposition of triple-net properties. To the extent that we
acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future, our provision for
depreciation and amortization will change accordingly.  Changes in gains on
sales of properties are related to the volume of property sales and the sales
prices.

During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we
recorded impairment charges totaling $96,909,000 related to 21 properties,
$20,169,000 related to 22 properties, and $2,220,000 related to two properties,
respectively.

The provision for loan losses is related to our
critical accounting estimate for the allowance for loan losses and is discussed
in “Critical Accounting Policies” below and Note 6 to our consolidated
financial statements.  During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we
recorded provision for loan losses related to certain first mortgage loans to
Genesis HealthCare (“Genesis”) of $62,966,000 and $6,935,000, respectively.

During the year ended December 31, 2017, other
expenses primarily represents non-capitalizable transaction costs, including
$88,316,000 related to a joint venture transaction with an existing seniors
housing operator, including the conversion of properties from triple-net to
seniors housing operating, an exchange of PropCo/OpCo interests and
termination/restructuring of pre-existing relationships.

In April 2011, we completed the acquisition of
substantially all of the real estate assets of privately-owned Genesis.  In
conjunction with this transaction, we received the option to acquire an
ownership interest in Genesis.  In February 2015, Genesis closed on a
transaction to merge with Skilled Healthcare Group to become a publicly traded
company which required us to record the value of the derivative asset due to
the net settlement feature.  This event resulted in $58,427,000 gain. During
the fourth quarter of 2015, the cost basis of this investment exceeded the fair
value.  Management performed an assessment to determine whether the decline in
fair value was other than temporary and concluded that it was.  As a result, we
recognized an other than temporary impairment charge of $35,648,000 which was
recorded in other expense.  During the fourth quarter of 2017, management
recorded an additional other than temporary charge of $18,294,000 in other
expenses on the Genesis equity investment.

A portion of our triple-net properties were formed
through partnerships.  Income or loss from unconsolidated entities represents
our share of net income or losses from partnerships where we are the
noncontrolling partner.  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
represents our partners’ share of net income relating to those partnerships
where we are the controlling partner.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Seniors Housing Operating

The following is a summary of our NOI and SSNOI for the
seniors housing operating segment for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands):

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

NOI

$

701,262

$

814,114

$

112,852

16%

$

880,026

$

65,912

8%

$

178,764

25%

Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties

(1)

1,003

1,990


98%

1,242

(748)

-38%


24%

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(2)

(83,880)

(190,459)

(106,579)

127%

(246,731)

(56,272)

30%

(162,851)

194%

SSNOI

(1)

$

618,385

$

625,645

$

7,260

1%

$

634,537

$

8,892

1%

$

16,152

3%

(1) Relates to 294 same store properties.

(2) Primarily relates to the acquisition of 129 properties
  subsequent to January 1, 2015.

The following is a summary of our results of
operations for the seniors housing operating segment for the periods presented (dollars
in thousands):

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Resident fees and services

$

2,158,031

$

2,504,731

$

346,700

16%

$

2,779,423

$

274,692

11%

$

621,392

29%

Interest income

4,180

4,180

-

0%


(4,111)

-98%

(4,111)

-98%

Other income

6,060

17,085

11,025

182%

5,127

(11,958)

-70%

(933)

-15%

2,168,271

2,525,996

357,725

16%

2,784,619

258,623

10%

616,348

28%

Property operating expenses

1,467,009

1,711,882

244,873

17%

1,904,593

192,711

11%

437,584

30%

NOI

(1)

701,262

814,114

112,852

16%

880,026

65,912

8%

178,764

25%

Other expenses:

Interest expense

70,388

81,853

11,465

16%

63,265

(18,588)

-23%

(7,123)

-10%

Depreciation and amortization

351,733

415,429

63,696

18%

484,796

69,367

17%

133,063

38%

Transaction costs

(2)

54,966

29,207

(25,759)

-47%

-

(29,207)

-100%

(54,966)

-100%

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

(195)

(88)


-55%

3,785

3,873

-4401%

3,980

-2041%

Impairment of assets

(3)

-

12,403

12,403

n/a

21,949

9,546

77%

21,949

n/a

Other expenses

(2)

-

-

-

n/a

8,347

8,347

n/a

8,347

n/a

476,892

538,804

61,912

13%

582,142

43,338

8%

105,250

22%

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income from
  unconsolidated entities

224,370

275,310

50,940

23%

297,884

22,574

8%

73,514

33%

Income tax benefit (expense)


(3,762)

(4,748)

-482%

(16,430)

(12,668)

337%

(17,416)

-1766%

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

(32,672)

(20,442)

12,230

-37%

(105,236)

(84,794)

415%

(72,564)

222%

Income from continuing operations

192,684

251,106

58,422

30%

176,218

(74,888)

-30%

(16,466)

-9%

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

(3)

-

9,880

9,880

n/a

56,295

46,415

470%

56,295

n/a

Net income (loss)

192,684

260,986

68,302

35%

232,513

(28,473)

-11%

39,829

21%

Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests

(1,438)

2,292

3,730

-259%

8,472

6,180

270%

9,910

-689%

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

194,122

$

258,694

$

64,572

33%

$

224,041

$

(34,653)

-13%

$

29,919

15%

(1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.

(2) See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.

(3) See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.

Fluctuations in resident fees/services and property operating
expenses are primarily a result of acquisitions and the movement of U.S. and
foreign currency exchange rates. The fluctuations in depreciation and
amortization are due to acquisitions and variations in amortization of
short-lived intangible assets. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of
additional properties in the future, these amounts will change accordingly. The
increase in other income for the year ended December 31, 2016 is primarily a
result of insurance proceeds received relating to a property as well as a
bargain purchase gain recognized in conjunction with a single property
acquisition.

The majority of our
seniors housing operating properties are formed through partnership interests. 
The fluctuations in income (loss) from unconsolidated entities are largely due
to the recognition of impairments related to one of our investments in
unconsolidated


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

entities during the year ended December
31, 2017. In addition, losses are also attributable to depreciation and amortization
of short-lived intangible assets related to certain investments in
unconsolidated joint ventures in 2013 and 2014.   Net income attributable to
noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income (loss)
related to joint ventures.

During the year ended
December 31, 2017, we completed one seniors housing operating construction
project representing $3,634,000 or $302,820 per unit.  The following is a
summary of our seniors housing operating construction projects, excluding
expansions, pending as of December 31, 2017 (dollars in thousands):

Location

Units/Beds

Commitment

Balance

Est. Completion

Chertsey, UK


$

42,210

$

35,814

1Q18

Bushey, UK


55,131

36,784

3Q18

Wandsworth, UK


78,739

29,502

1Q20

Total


$

176,080

102,100

Interest expense represents secured debt interest expense
which fluctuates based on the net effect and timing of assumptions, segment
transitions, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, extinguishments and
principal amortizations.

The fluctuations in loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt is
primarily attributable the volume of extinguishments and terms of the related
secured debt.

The following is a summary of our seniors housing
operating property secured debt principal activity (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2015

December 31, 2016

December 31, 2017

Weighted Avg.

Weighted Avg.

Weighted Avg.

Amount

Interest Rate

Amount

Interest Rate

Amount

Interest Rate

Beginning balance

$

1,654,531

4.422%

$

2,290,552

3.958%

$

2,463,249

3.936%

Debt issued

228,685

2.776%

293,860

2.895%

228,772

2.722%

Debt assumed

842,316

3.420%

60,898

4.301%

-

0.000%

Debt extinguished

(285,599)

4.188%

(159,498)

3.656%

(668,804)

4.805%

Debt deconsolidated

-

0.000%

-

0.000%

(60,000)

3.799%

Foreign currency

(110,691)

3.625%

26,549

3.483%

72,636

3.234%

Principal payments

(38,690)

4.126%

(49,112)

3.888%

(47,153)

3.601%

Ending balance

$

2,290,552

3.958%

$

2,463,249

3.936%

$

1,988,700

3.661%

Monthly averages

$

1,894,609

4.261%

$

2,391,706

3.926%

$

2,065,477

3.662%

The increases in gains on real estate
dispositions is due to higher volumes of property sales. During the years ended
December 31, 2017, and 2016, we recorded impairment charges totaling $21,949,000
and $12,403,000, relating to three and two properties, respectively.

Outpatient Medical

The following is a summary of our NOI and SSNOI for the
outpatient medical segment for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

NOI

(1)

$

359,410

$

380,264

$

20,854

6%

$

384,068

$

3,804

1%

$

24,658

7%

Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties

(1)

(6,095)

(3,073)

3,022

-50%

(1,764)

1,309

-43%

4,331

-71%

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(2)

(76,819)

(99,237)

(22,418)

29%

(102,851)

(3,614)

4%

(26,032)

34%

SSNOI

(1)

$

276,496

$

277,954

$

1,458

1%

$

279,453

$

1,499

1%

$

2,957

1%

(1) Relates to 202 same store properties.

(2) Primarily relates to the acquisition of 28 properties and
  the conversion of 12 construction projects into revenue-generating properties
  subsequent to January 1, 2015 as well as 20 properties sold or held for sale
  at Dcember 31, 2017.

The following is a summary of our results of operations for
the outpatient medical segment for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Rental income

$

504,121

$

536,490

$

32,369

6%

$

560,060

$

23,570

4%

$

55,939

11%

Interest income

5,853

3,307

(2,546)

-43%

-

(3,307)

-100%

(5,853)

-100%

Other income

4,684

5,568


19%

3,340

(2,228)

-40%

(1,344)

-29%

514,658

545,365

30,707

6%

563,400

18,035

3%

48,742

9%

Property operating expenses

155,248

165,101

9,853

6%

179,332

14,231

9%

24,084

16%

NOI

(1)

359,410

380,264

20,854

6%

384,068

3,804

1%

24,658

7%

Other expenses:

Interest expense

27,542

19,087

(8,455)

-31%

10,015

(9,072)

-48%

(17,527)

-64%

Depreciation and amortization

186,265

188,616

2,351

1%

193,094

4,478

2%

6,829

4%

Transaction costs

(2)

2,765

3,687


33%

-

(3,687)

-100%

(2,765)

-100%

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

-

-

-

n/a

4,373

4,373

n/a

4,373

n/a

Provision for loan losses

(3)

-

3,280

3,280

n/a

-

(3,280)

-100%

-

n/a

Impairment of assets

(4)

-

4,635

4,635

n/a

5,625


21%

5,625

n/a

Other expenses

(2)

-

-

-

n/a

1,911

1,911

n/a

1,911

n/a

216,572

219,305

2,733

1%

215,018

(4,287)

-2%

(1,554)

-1%

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and income
  (loss)  from unconsolidated entities

142,838

160,959

18,121

13%

169,050

8,091

5%

26,212

18%

Income tax benefit (expense)


(511)

(756)

n/a

(1,477)

(966)

189%

(1,722)

n/a

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

2,908


(2,590)

-89%

2,683

2,365

744%

(225)

-8%

Income from continuing operations

145,991

160,766

14,775

10%

170,256

9,490

6%

24,265

17%

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

(4)

194,126

(1,228)

(195,354)

n/a

1,630

2,858

n/a

(192,496)

-99%

Net income (loss)

340,117

159,538

(180,579)

-53%

171,886

12,348

8%

(168,231)

-49%

Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests

(110)



n/a

4,765

3,997

520%

4,875

n/a

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

340,227

$

158,770

$

(181,457)

-53%

$

167,121

$

8,351

5%

$

(173,106)

-51%

(1) See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below.

(2) See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.

(3) See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements.

(3) See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.

The increases
in rental income is primarily attributable to the acquisitions of new
properties and the conversion of newly constructed outpatient medical
properties from which we receive rent. Certain of our leases contain annual
rental escalators that are contingent upon changes in the CPI.  These
escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental
income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the
period.  If the CPI does not increase, a portion of our revenues may not
continue to increase.  Revenue from real property that is sold would offset
revenue increases and, to the extent that revenues from sold properties exceed
those from new acquisitions, we would experience decreased revenues.  Our
leases could renew above or below current rent rates, resulting in an increase
or decrease in rental income.

For the three months ended December 31,
2017, our consolidated outpatient medical portfolio signed 79,129 square feet
of new leases and 270,505 square feet of renewals.  The weighted-average
term of these leases was six years, with a rate of $32.92 per square foot and
tenant improvement and lease commission costs of $11.43 per square foot. 
Substantially all of these leases during the referenced quarter contain an
annual fixed or contingent escalation rent structure ranging from the change in
CPI to 3.5%.

The
fluctuation in property operating expenses is primarily attributable to
acquisitions and construction conversions of new outpatient medical facilities
for which we incur certain property operating expenses.  The fluctuations in
depreciation and amortization are due to acquisitions and variations in
amortization of short-lived intangible assets. To the extent that we acquire or
dispose of additional properties in the future, these amounts will change
accordingly.

During the
year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded a provision for loan loss related to
our critical accounting estimate for the allowance for loan losses discussed in
“Critical Accounting Policies” below and Note 6 to our consolidated financial
statements.

Changes
in gains/losses on sales of properties are related to

volume of property sales and the sales prices

.

During 2016 and 2017, we recognized impairment charges
related to certain held-for-sale properties as the carrying values exceeded the
estimated fair values less costs to sell.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

During the year ended December 31, 2017, we completed four
outpatient medical construction projects representing $63,036,000 or $311 per
square foot. The following is a summary of outpatient medical construction
projects pending as of December 31, 2017 (dollars in thousands):

Location

Square Feet

Commitment

Balance

Est. Completion

Palmer, AK

38,376

$

12,345

$

2,329

3Q18

Brooklyn, NY

140,955

105,177

49,901

3Q19

Total

179,331

$

117,522

$

52,230

Total interest expense
represents secured debt interest expense. The change in secured debt interest
expense is primarily due to the net effect and timing of assumptions,
extinguishments and principal amortizations. The fluctuations in loss (gain) on
extinguishment of debt is primarily attributable the volume of extinguishments
and terms of the related secured debt.  The following is a summary of our
outpatient medical secured debt principal activity for the periods presented (dollars
in thousands):

Year Ended

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2015

December 31, 2016

December 31, 2017

Weighted Avg.

Weighted Avg.

Weighted Avg.

Amount

Interest Rate

Amount

Interest Rate

Amount

Interest Rate

Beginning balance

$

609,268

5.838%

$

627,689

5.177%

$

404,079

4.846%

Debt assumed

120,959

2.113%

-

0.000%

23,094

6.670%

Debt extinguished

(88,182)

5.257%

(210,115)

5.970%

(137,416)

5.990%

Principal payments

(14,356)

5.975%

(13,495)

6.552%

(9,806)

6.850%

Ending balance

$

627,689

5.177%

$

404,079

4.846%

$

279,951

4.720%

Monthly averages

$

613,155

5.434%

$

536,774

5.106%

$

294,694

4.624%

A portion of our
outpatient medical properties were formed through partnerships.

Income or loss from unconsolidated entities represents our share
of net income or losses from partnerships where we are the noncontrolling
partner.

Net income attributable to noncontrolling
interests represents our partners’ share of net income or loss relating to
those partnerships where we are the controlling partner.

Non-Segment/Corporate

The following is a
summary of our results of operations for the non-segment/corporate activities
(dollars in thousands):

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Other income

$

1,091

$


$

(152)

-14%

$

1,538

$


64%

$


41%

Expenses:

Interest expense

365,855

399,035

33,180

9%

396,148

(2,887)

-1%

30,293

8%

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

-

(2,516)

(2,516)

n/a

-

2,516

-100%

-

n/a

General and administrative

147,416

155,241

7,825

5%

122,008

(33,233)

-21%

(25,408)

-17%

Loss (gain) on extinguishments of debt, net

24,777

16,439

(8,338)

-34%

-

(16,439)

-100%

(24,777)

-100%

Other expenses

10,583

11,998

1,415

13%

50,829

38,831

324%

40,246

380%

548,631

580,197

31,566

6%

568,985

(11,212)

-2%

20,354

4%

Loss from continuing operations before income taxes

(547,540)

(579,258)

(31,718)

6%

(567,447)

11,811

-2%

(19,907)

4%

Income tax benefit (expense)

(3,438)

24,488

27,926

n/a

2,070

(22,418)

-92%

5,508

n/a

Net loss

(550,978)

(554,770)

(3,792)

1%

(565,377)

(10,607)

2%

(14,399)

3%

Preferred stock dividends

65,406

65,406

-

0%

49,410

(15,996)

-24%

(15,996)

-24%

Preferred stock redemption charge

-

-

-

n/a

9,769

9,769

n/a

9,769

n/a

Net loss attributable to common stockholders

$

(616,384)

$

(620,176)

$

(3,792)

1%

$

(624,556)

$

(4,380)

1%

$

(8,172)

1%

The following is a summary of our
non-segment/corporate interest expense for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year Ended

One Year Change

Year Ended

One Year Change

Two Year Change

December 31,

December 31,

December 31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Senior unsecured notes

$

341,265

$

368,775

$

27,510

8%

$

364,773

$

(4,002)

-1%

$

23,508

7%

Secured debt



(47)

-13%


(183)

-59%

(230)

-65%

Primary unsecured credit facility

10,812

16,811

5,999

55%

17,863

1,052

6%

7,051

65%

Loan expense

13,421

13,139

(282)

-2%

13,385


2%

(36)

0%

Totals

$

365,855

$

399,035

$

33,180

9%

$

396,148

$

(2,887)

-1%

$

30,293

8%

The change
in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due to the net effect of issuances
and extinguishments, primarily the $450,000,000 of 4.70% senior unsecured notes
extinguished in December 2016.  Please refer to Note 10 to consolidated
financial statements for additional information.  The loss on extinguishment of
debt in 2015 is primarily due to the early extinguishment of the 2016 senior
unsecured notes. The loss on extinguishment of debt in 2016 is due to the early
extinguishment of the 2017 senior unsecured notes. The change in interest
expense on our primary unsecured credit facility is due primarily to the net
effect and timing of draws, paydowns and variable interest rate changes. 
Please refer to Note 9 of our consolidated financial statements for additional
information regarding our primary unsecured credit facility.

General
and administrative expenses as a percentage of consolidated revenues for the
years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were 2.83%, 3.63% and 3.82%,
respectively.  The 2017 decrease in general and administrative expenses is
primarily related to a reduction in professional service fees for tax and legal
consulting and compensation costs as a result of execution of our strategic
initiatives.

Other
expenses for 2017 primarily represents $40,730,000 of costs related to
finalization of an agreement with the University of Toledo Foundation to
transfer our corporate headquarters as a donation. Other expenses for all years
also includes severance-related costs associated with the departure of certain
executive officers and key employees.  During 2017, we incurred expenses
totaling approximately $3,811,000 in connection with the litigation captioned
Welltower v. Brinker, Case No. G-4801-CI-0201702692-000 (Ct. Common Pleas,
Toledo, Ohio).  These expenses were offset by:  1) $4,000,000 we received
pursuant to the terms of the settlement of the litigation; and 2) approximately
$2,848,000 that Mr. Brinker was owed under his Separation Agreement with us,
which was forgiven pursuant to the terms of the settlement of the litigation. Other
expenses in 2015 also included costs associated with the termination of our
investment in a strategic outpatient medical partnership.

The
fluctuations in income taxes are primarily due to benefits recognized in the
year ended December 31, 2016 related to the release of a valuation allowance
reserve on a taxable subsidiary and the restructuring of an unconsolidated
investment. The decrease in preferred dividends and the preferred stock redemption
charge are due to the redemption of our 6.5% Series J preferred stock during
the three months ended March 31, 2017.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Other

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

We believe that net income and net income attributable to common stockholders
(“NICS”), as defined by U.S. GAAP, are the most appropriate earnings
measurements. However, we consider FFO, NOI, SSNOI, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA
(“AEBITDA”) to be useful supplemental measures of our operating performance.
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP
implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably
over time as evidenced by the provision for depreciation. However, since real
estate values have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many
industry investors and analysts have considered presentations of operating
results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be
insufficient. In response, the National Association of Real Estate Investment
Trusts (“NAREIT”) created funds from operations attributable to common
stockholders (“FFO”) as a supplemental measure of operating performance for
REITs that excludes historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as
defined by NAREIT, means NICS, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, excluding
gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and impairment of depreciable
assets, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for
unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling interests.

Consolidated net operating income (“NOI”) is used to evaluate the operating
performance of our properties. We define NOI as total revenues, including
tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses. Property operating
expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing
tenants for our seniors housing operating and outpatient medical facility
properties.  These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related
payroll and benefits, property management fees paid to operators, marketing,
housekeeping, food service, maintenance, utilities, property taxes and
insurance.  General and administrative expenses (excluded from NOI) represent
costs unrelated to property operations.  These expenses include, but are not
limited to, payroll and benefits, professional services, office expenses, and
depreciation of corporate fixed assets.  Same store NOI (“SSNOI”) is used to
evaluate the operating performance of our properties under a consistent
population which eliminates changes in the composition of our portfolio.  As
used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating
properties in the portfolio for the reporting period subsequent to January 1,
2015.  Land parcels, loans, sub-leases and major capital restructurings as well
as any properties acquired, developed/redeveloped, transitioned, sold or
classified as held for sale during that period are excluded from the same store
amounts.  We believe NOI and SSNOI provide investors relevant and useful
information because they measure the operating performance of our properties at
the property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSNOI to make
decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level
performance of our properties.

EBITDA stands for earnings (net income) before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization. We believe that EBITDA, along with net income and cash flow
provided from operating activities, is an important supplemental measure
because it provides additional information to assess and evaluate the
performance of our operations. We primarily utilize EBITDA to measure our
interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided by total interest, and
our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided by fixed
charges. Fixed charges include total interest, secured debt principal
amortization, and preferred dividends. Covenants in our senior unsecured notes
contain financial ratios based on a definition of EBITDA that is specific to
those agreements. Failure to satisfy these covenants could result in an event
of default that could have a material adverse impact on our cost and
availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on
our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.
Due to the materiality of these debt agreements and the financial covenants, we
have disclosed AEBITDA, which represents EBITDA as defined above excluding
unconsolidated entities and adjusted for items per our covenant. We use AEBITDA
to measure our adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents AEBITDA
divided by fixed charges on a trailing twelve months basis. Fixed charges
include total interest (excluding capitalized interest and non-cash interest
expenses), secured debt principal amortization and preferred dividends. Our
covenant requires an adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.50
times.

Our supplemental reporting measures and similarly entitled financial measures
are widely used by investors, equity and debt analysts and rating agencies in
the valuation, comparison, rating and investment recommendations of companies.
Management uses these financial measures to facilitate internal and external
comparisons to our historical operating results and in making operating
decisions. Additionally, these measures are utilized by the Board of Directors
to evaluate management. None of our supplemental measures represent net income or
cash flow provided from operating activities as determined in accordance with
U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as alternative measures of profitability
or liquidity. Finally, the supplemental measures, as defined by us, may not be
comparable to similarly entitled items reported by other REITs or other
companies.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The table below reflects the reconciliation of
FFO to NICS, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods
presented. Noncontrolling interest and unconsolidated entity amounts represent
adjustments to reflect our share of depreciation and amortization, gains/loss
on real estate dispositions and impairments of assets.  Amounts are in
thousands except for per share data.

Year Ended December 31,

FFO Reconciliation:




Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

818,344

$

1,012,397

$

463,595

Depreciation and amortization

826,240

901,242

921,720

Impairment of assets

2,220

37,207

124,483

Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net

(280,387)

(364,046)

(344,250)

Noncontrolling interests

(39,271)

(71,527)

(60,018)

Unconsolidated entities

82,494

67,667

60,046

Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders

$

1,409,640

$

1,582,940

$

1,165,576

Average common shares outstanding:

Basic

348,240

358,275

367,237

Diluted

349,424

360,227

369,001

Per share data:

Net income attributable to common stockholders

Basic

$

2.35

$

2.83

$

1.26

Diluted

2.34

2.81

1.26

Funds from operations attributable to common stockholders

Basic

$

4.05

$

4.42

$

3.17

Diluted

4.03

4.39

3.16


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The
table below reflects the reconciliation of AEBITDA to net income, the most
directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented.  Dollars are
in thousands.

Year Ended December 31,

AEBITDA Reconciliation:




Net income

$

888,549

$

1,082,070

$

540,613

Interest expense

492,169

521,345

484,622

Income tax expense (benefit)

6,451

(19,128)

20,128

Depreciation and amortization

826,240

901,242

921,720

EBITDA

2,213,409

2,485,529

1,967,083

Stock-based compensation expense

30,844

28,869

19,102

Transaction costs

110,926

42,910

-

Provision for loan losses

-

10,215

62,966

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

34,677

17,214

37,241

Impairment of assets

2,220

37,207

124,483

Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net

(280,387)

(364,046)

(344,250)

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

(58,427)

(2,448)

2,284

Other expenses

40,636

7,721

176,395

Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities

21,504

10,357

83,125

Additional other income

(2,144)

(16,664)

-

AEBITDA

$

2,113,258

$

2,256,864

$

2,128,429

Adjusted Interest Coverage Ratio:

Interest expense

$

492,169

$

521,345

$

484,622

Capitalized interest

8,670

16,943

13,489

Non-cash interest expense

(2,586)

(1,681)

(10,359)

Total interest

498,253

536,607

487,752

AEBITDA

$

2,113,258

$

2,256,864

$

2,128,429

Adjusted interest coverage ratio

4.24x

4.21x

4.36x

Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio:

Total interest

$

498,253

$

536,607

$

487,752

Secured debt principal payments

67,064

74,466

64,078

Preferred dividends

65,406

65,406

49,410

Total fixed charges

630,723

676,479

601,240

AEBITDA

$

2,113,258

$

2,256,864

$

2,128,429

Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio

3.35x

3.34x

3.54x

Our leverage ratios include book capitalization,
undepreciated book capitalization, and market capitalization. Book
capitalization represents the sum of net debt (defined as total long-term debt
less cash and cash equivalents and any IRC section 1031 deposits), total equity
and redeemable noncontrolling interests. Undepreciated book capitalization
represents book capitalization adjusted for accumulated depreciation and
amortization. Market capitalization represents book capitalization adjusted for
the fair market value of our common stock. Our leverage ratios are defined as
the proportion of net debt to total capitalization. The table below reflects
the reconciliation of our leverage ratios to our balance sheets for the periods
presented. Amounts are in thousands, except share price.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31,




Book capitalization:

Borrowings under primary unsecured credit facility

$

835,000

$

645,000

$

719,000

Long-term debt obligations

(1)

12,132,686

11,713,245

11,012,936

Cash & cash equivalents

(2)

(484,754)

(557,659)

(249,620)

Total net debt

12,482,932

11,800,586

11,482,316

Total equity

15,175,885

15,281,472

14,925,452

Redeemable noncontrolling interest

183,083

398,433

375,194

Book capitalization

$

27,841,900

$

27,480,491

$

26,782,962

Net debt to book capitalization ratio

44.8%

42.9%

42.9%

Undepreciated book capitalization:

Total net debt

$

12,482,932

$

11,800,586

$

11,482,316

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

3,796,297

4,093,494

4,838,370

Total equity

15,175,885

15,281,472

14,925,452

Redeemable noncontrolling interest

183,083

398,433

375,194

Undepreciated book capitalization

$

31,638,197

$

31,573,985

$

31,621,332

Net debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio

39.5%

37.4%

36.3%

Market capitalization:

Common shares outstanding

354,778

362,602

371,732

Period end share price

$

68.03

$

66.93

$

63.77

Common equity market capitalization

$

24,135,547

$

24,268,952

$

23,705,350

Total net debt

12,482,932

11,800,586

11,482,316

Noncontrolling interests

(3)

768,408

873,512

877,499

Preferred stock

1,006,250

1,006,250

718,503

Market capitalization:

$

38,393,137

$

37,949,300

$

36,783,668

Net debt to market capitalization ratio

32.5%

31.1%

31.2%

(1) Amounts include senior unsecured notes, secured debt and
  capital lease obligations as reflected on our consolidated balance sheet.

(2) Inclusive of IRC section 1031 deposits, if any.

(3) Includes all noncontrolling interests (redeemable and
  permanent) as reflected on our consolidated balance sheet.

The following tables reflect the reconciliation
of NOI and SSNOI to net income, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure,
for the years presented.  Dollar amounts are in thousands.

Year Ended December 31,

NOI Reconciliation:




Net income

$

888,549

$

1,082,070

$

540,613

Loss (gain) on real estate dispositions, net

(280,387)

(364,046)

(344,250)

Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities

21,504

10,357

83,125

Income tax expense (benefit)

6,451

(19,128)

20,128

Other expenses

46,231

11,998

177,776

Impairment of assets

2,220

37,207

124,483

Provision for loan losses

-

10,215

62,966

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

34,677

17,214

37,241

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

(58,427)

(2,448)

2,284

Transaction costs

110,926

42,910

-

General and administrative expenses

147,416

155,241

122,008

Depreciation and amortization

826,240

901,242

921,720

Interest expense

492,169

521,345

484,622

Consolidated net operating income (NOI)

$

2,237,569

$

2,404,177

$

2,232,716

NOI by segment:

Triple-net

$

1,175,806

$

1,208,860

$

967,084

Seniors housing operating

701,262

814,114

880,026

Outpatient medical

359,410

380,264

384,068

Non-segment/corporate

1,091


1,538

Total NOI

$

2,237,569

$

2,404,177

$

2,232,716


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Year Ended December 31,

SSNOI Reconciliation:




NOI:

Triple-net

$

1,175,806

$

1,208,860

$

967,084

Seniors housing operating

701,262

814,114

880,026

Outpatient medical

359,410

380,264

384,068

Total

2,236,478

2,403,238

2,231,178

Adjustments:

Triple-net:

Non-cash NOI on same store properties

(48,890)

(38,899)

(28,602)

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(498,131)

(574,049)

(333,279)

Subtotal

(547,021)

(612,948)

(361,881)

Seniors housing operating:

Non-cash NOI on same store properties

1,003

1,990

1,242

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(83,880)

(190,459)

(246,731)

Subtotal

(82,877)

(188,469)

(245,489)

Outpatient medical:

Non-cash NOI on same store properties

(6,095)

(3,073)

(1,764)

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(76,819)

(99,237)

(102,851)

Subtotal

(82,914)

(102,310)

(104,615)

Total

(712,812)

(903,727)

(711,985)

SSNOI by segment:

Triple-net

628,785

595,912

605,203

Seniors housing operating

618,385

625,645

634,537

Outpatient medical

276,496

277,954

279,453

Total

$

1,523,666

$

1,499,511

$

1,519,193

SSNOI Property Reconciliation:

Total properties

1,286

Acquisitions

(231)

Developments

(33)

Disposals/Held-for-sale

(71)

Segment transitions

(28)

Other

(1)

(9)

Same store properties


(1) Includes eight land parcels and one loan.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Critical Accounting Policies

Our consolidated financial
statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make
estimates and assumptions.  Management considers accounting estimates or
assumptions critical if:

·

the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the
levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain
matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change; and

·

the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition
or operating performance is material.

Management has discussed the
development and selection of its critical accounting policies with the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the
disclosure presented below relating to them.  Management believes the current
assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our
consolidated financial statements are appropriate and are not reasonably likely
to change in the future.  However, since these estimates require assumptions to
be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, they bear the
risk of change.  If actual experience differs from the assumptions and other
considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated
financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial
condition.  Please refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial
statements for further information on significant accounting policies that
impact us and for the impact of new accounting standards, including accounting
pronouncements that were issued but not yet adopted by us.

The following table presents
information about our critical accounting policies, as well as the material
assumptions used to develop each estimate:

Nature of Critical

Accounting Estimate

Assumptions/Approach

Used

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated
  financial statements include our accounts, the accounts of our wholly-owned
  subsidiaries, and the accounts of joint venture entities in which we own a
  majority voting interest with the ability to control operations and where no
  substantive participating rights or substantive kick out rights have been
  granted to the noncontrolling interests.  In addition, we consolidate those
  entities deemed to be variable interest entities (“VIEs”) in which we are
  determined to be the primary beneficiary. All material intercompany
  transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

We
  make judgments about which entities are VIEs based on an assessment of
  whether (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a
  controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is
  insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional
  subordinated financial support. We

make
  judgments with respect to our level of influence or control of an entity and
  whether we are (or are not) the primary beneficiary of a VIE. Consideration
  of various factors includes, but is not limited to, our ability to direct the
  activities that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance,
  our form of ownership interest, our representation on the entity's governing
  body, the size and seniority of our investment, our ability and the rights of
  other investors to participate in policy making decisions, replace the
  manager and/or liquidate the entity, if applicable. Our ability to correctly
  assess our influence or control over an entity at inception of our
  involvement or on a continuous basis when determining the primary beneficiary
  of a VIE affects the presentation of these entities in our consolidated
  financial statements. If we perform a primary beneficiary analysis at a date
  other than at inception of the VIE, our assumptions may be different and may
  result in the identification of a different primary beneficiary.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Nature of Critical

Accounting Estimate

Assumptions/Approach

Used

Real Estate Acquisitions

On January 1, 2017,
  we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of
  a Business (“ASU 2017-01”) which narrows the Financial Accounting Standards
  Board’s (“FASB”) definition of a business and provides a framework that gives
  entities a basis for making reasonable judgments about whether a transaction
  involves an asset or a business. ASU 2017-01 states that when substantially
  all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a
  single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, the
  acquired asset is not a business. If this initial test is not met, an
  acquired asset cannot be considered a business unless it includes an input
  and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the
  ability to create output. The primary differences between business
  combinations and asset acquisitions include recording the asset acquisition
  at relative fair value, capitalizing transaction costs, and the elimination
  of the measurement period in which to record adjustments to the transaction.
  We believe that substantially all our real estate acquisitions are considered
  asset acquisitions. We are applying ASU 2017-01 prospectively for
  acquisitions after January 1, 2017. Regardless of whether an acquisition is
  considered an asset acquisition or a business combination, the cost of real
  property acquired is allocated to net tangible and identifiable intangible
  assets based on their respective fair values. Tangible assets primarily
  consist of land, buildings, and improvements. The remaining purchase price is
  allocated among identifiable intangible assets primarily consisting of the
  above or below market component of in-place leases and the value of in-place
  leases. The total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further
  allocated to in-place lease values and customer relationship values based on
  management’s evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s
  lease and our overall relationship with that respective tenant. Real property
  developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of construction
  period interest.

We make estimates as
  part of our allocation of the purchase price of acquisitions to the various
  components of the acquisition based upon the relative fair value of each
  component. The most significant components of our allocations are typically
  the allocation of fair value to the buildings as-if-vacant, land, and
  in-place leases. In the case of the fair value of buildings and the
  allocation of value to land and other intangibles, our estimates of the
  values of these components will affect the amount of depreciation and
  amortization we record over the estimated useful life of the property
  acquired or the remaining lease term. In the case of the value of in-place
  leases, we make our best estimates based on our evaluation of the specific
  characteristics of each tenant's lease. Factors considered include estimates
  of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods, market
  conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. Our assumptions affect the
  amount of future revenue that we will recognize over the remaining lease term
  for the acquired in-place leases.

We compute
  depreciation and amortization on our properties using the straight-line
  method based on their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to
  40 years for buildings and five to 15 years for improvements.
  Amortization periods for intangibles are based on the remaining life of the
  lease or lease-up period.

Allowance for Loan Losses

We maintain an
  allowance for loan losses in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  The allowance for
  loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential
  losses in our loans receivable.  The determination of the allowance is based
  on a quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans.  If this evaluation
  indicates that there is a greater risk of loan charge-offs, additional
  allowances or placement on non-accrual status may be required.  A loan is
  impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that
  we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the
  contractual terms of the original loan agreement or if it has been modified
  in a troubled debt restructuring.  Consistent with this definition, all loans
  on non-accrual are deemed impaired.  To the extent circumstances improve and
  the risk of collectability is diminished, we will return these loans to income
  accrual status.

The determination of
  the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans,
  including general economic conditions and estimated collectability of loan
  payments. We evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable based on a
  combination of factors, including, but not limited to, delinquency status,
  historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and
  guarantors, and value of the underlying collateral. Any loans with
  collectability concerns are subjected to a projected payoff valuation.  The
  valuation is based on the expected future cash flows and/or the estimated
  fair value of the underlying collateral. The valuation is compared to the
  outstanding balance to determine the reserve needed for each loan.  We may
  base our valuation on a loan’s observable market price, if any, or the fair
  value of collateral, net of sales costs, if the repayment of the loan is
  expected to be provided solely by the collateral.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Nature of Critical

Accounting Estimate

Assumptions/Approach

Used

Revenue Recognition

Revenue is recorded
  in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires that revenue be recognized after
  four basic criteria are met. These four criteria include persuasive evidence
  of an arrangement, the rendering of service, fixed and determinable income
  and reasonably assured collectability. If the collectability of revenue is
  determined incorrectly, the amount and timing of our reported revenue could
  be significantly affected. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned
  based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of
  collectability risk. Substantially all of our operating leases contain fixed
  and/or contingent escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental
  escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial
  lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related
  to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on
  the contractual cash rental payments due for the period.  We recognize
  resident fees and services, other than move-in fees, monthly as services are
  provided.  Lease agreements with residents generally have a term of one year
  and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days’ notice.

We evaluate the
  collectability of our revenues and related receivables on an on-going basis.
  We evaluate collectability based on assumptions and other considerations including,
  but not limited to, the certainty of payment, payment history, the financial
  strength of the investment’s underlying operations as measured by cash flows
  and payment coverages, the value of the underlying collateral and guaranties,
  and current economic conditions.

If our evaluation
  indicates that collectability is not reasonably assured, we may place an
  investment on non-accrual or reserve against all or a portion of current
  income as an offset to revenue.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

We review our
  long-lived assets for potential impairment in accordance with U.S. GAAP. An
  impairment charge must be recognized when the carrying value of a long-lived
  asset is not recoverable.  The carrying value is not recoverable if it
  exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the
  use and eventual disposition of the asset.  If it is determined that a
  permanent impairment of a long-lived asset has occurred, the carrying value
  of the asset is reduced to its fair value and an impairment charge is
  recognized for the difference between the carrying value and the fair value.

The net book value of
  long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to
  determine if there are indicators of impairment.  These indicators may
  include anticipated operating losses at the property level, the tenant’s
  inability to make rent payments, a decision to dispose of an asset before the
  end of its estimated useful life, and changes in the market that may
  permanently reduce the value of the property.  If indicators of impairment
  exist, then the undiscounted future cash flows from the most likely uses of
  the property are compared to the current net book value.  This analysis
  requires us to determine if indicators of impairment exist and to estimate
  the most likely stream of cash flows to be generated from the property during
  the period the property is expected to be held.  Properties that meet the
  held-for-sale criteria are recorded at the lesser of fair value less costs to
  sell or carrying value.


Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We are exposed to various
market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes in
interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We seek to mitigate the

underlying
foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative contracts
hedging these exposures.

We seek to mitigate the
effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new
investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. We
may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest
rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on our policy to match our
variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the
general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of
the future volatility of interest rates. This section is a discussion of the
risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates. For more information, see Notes 11 and 16 to our
consolidated financial statements.

We historically borrow on
our primary unsecured credit facility to acquire, construct or make loans
relating to health care and seniors housing properties. Then, as market
conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay
the borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility.  We are subject to
risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing
indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be
as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. The majority of our
borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit
the amount of indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, in the event that we are
unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations,
our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited.

A change in interest
rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt.
Interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate
debt. Changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate
debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on
whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or
equity, or repaid by the sale of assets. To illustrate the impact of changes in
the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed
rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values
arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the
instruments’ change in fair value. The following table summarizes the analysis
performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands):

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

Principal balance

Fair value change

Principal balance

Fair value change

Senior unsecured notes

$

7,710,219

$

(500,951)

$

7,568,832

$

(521,203)

Secured debt

1,749,958

(63,492)

2,489,276

(73,944)

Totals

$

9,460,177

$

(564,443)

$

10,058,108

$

(595,147)

Our variable rate debt, including our primary
unsecured credit facility, is reflected at fair value. At December 31, 2017, we
had $2,294,678,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. Assuming no
changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result
in increased annual interest expense of $22,947,000. At December 31, 2016, we had
$2,311,996,000 outstanding under our variable rate debt. Assuming no changes in
outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have resulted in
increased annual interest expense of $23,120,000.

We are subject to currency fluctuations that may,
from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Increases or decreases in the value of the Canadian Dollar or British Pounds
Sterling relative to the U.S. Dollar impact the amount of net income we earn
from our investments in Canada and the United Kingdom. Based solely on our results
for the year ended December 31, 2017, including the impact of existing hedging
arrangements, if these exchange rates were to increase or decrease by 10%, our
net income from these investments would increase or decrease, as applicable, by
less than $12,000,000.  We will continue to mitigate these underlying foreign
currency exposures with non-U.S. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on
derivative contracts.  If we increase our international presence through
investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and health
care properties outside the U.S., we may also decide to transact additional
business or borrow funds in currencies other than U.S. Dollars, Canadian
Dollars or British Pounds Sterling. To illustrate the impact of changes in
foreign currency markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our derivative
portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values arising from a
hypothetical 1% increase in foreign currency exchange rates to determine the
instruments’ change in fair value.  The following table summarizes the results
of the analysis performed, excluding cross currency hedge activity (dollars in
thousands):

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

Carrying value

Fair value change

Carrying value

Fair value change

Foreign currency exchange contracts

$

23,238

$

12,929

$

87,962

$


Debt designated as hedges

1,620,273

16,203

1,481,591

13,000

Totals

$

1,643,511

$

29,132

$

1,569,553

$

13,722


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and
Shareholders of Welltower Inc.

Opinion on the Financial
Statements

We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries
(the Company) as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the related consolidated
statements of comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2017, and the related notes and
financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15(a) (collectively
referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated
financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of the Company at December 31, 2017 and 2016 and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2017, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.

We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal
Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated
February 28, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements
based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB
and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance
with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations
of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or
fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of
material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or
fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures
included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

/s/

Ernst & Young

LLP

We have served as the
Company’s auditor since 1970.

Toledo

, Ohio

February 28, 2018


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

(in thousands)

December 31,

December 31,



Assets

Real estate investments:

Real property owned:

Land and land improvements

$

2,734,467

$

2,591,071

Buildings and improvements

25,373,117

24,496,153

Acquired lease intangibles

1,502,471

1,402,884

Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation

734,147

1,044,859

Construction in progress

237,746

506,091

Gross real property owned

30,581,948

30,041,058

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization

(4,838,370)

(4,093,494)

Net real property owned

25,743,578

25,947,564

Real estate loans receivable

495,871

622,628

Less allowance for losses on loans receivable

(68,372)

(6,563)

Net real estate loans receivable

427,499

616,065

Net real estate investments

26,171,077

26,563,629

Other assets:

Investments in unconsolidated entities

445,585

457,138

Goodwill

68,321

68,321

Cash and cash equivalents

243,777

419,378

Restricted cash

65,526

187,842

Straight-line receivable

389,168

342,578

Receivables and other assets

560,991

826,298

Total other assets

1,773,368

2,301,555

Total assets

$

27,944,445

$

28,865,184

Liabilities and equity

Liabilities:

Borrowings under primary unsecured credit facility

$

719,000

$

645,000

Senior unsecured notes

8,331,722

8,161,619

Secured debt

2,608,976

3,477,699

Capital lease obligations

72,238

73,927

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

911,863

827,034

Total liabilities

12,643,799

13,185,279

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

375,194

398,433

Equity:

Preferred stock

718,503

1,006,250

Common stock

372,449

363,071

Capital in excess of par value

17,662,681

16,999,691

Treasury stock

(64,559)

(54,741)

Cumulative net income

5,316,580

4,803,575

Cumulative dividends

(9,471,712)

(8,144,981)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

(111,465)

(169,531)

Other equity


3,059

Total Welltower Inc. stockholders’ equity

14,423,147

14,806,393

Noncontrolling interests

502,305

475,079

Total equity

14,925,452

15,281,472

Total liabilities and equity

$

27,944,445

$

28,865,184

See accompanying notes


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

(In thousands, except per
share data)

Year Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Rental income

$

1,445,871

$

1,648,815

$

1,598,948

Resident fees and services

2,779,423

2,504,731

2,158,031

Interest income

73,811

97,963

84,141

Other income

17,536

29,651

18,706

Total revenues

4,316,641

4,281,160

3,859,826

Expenses:

Interest expense

484,622

521,345

492,169

Property operating expenses

2,083,925

1,876,983

1,622,257

Depreciation and amortization

921,720

901,242

826,240

General and administrative

122,008

155,241

147,416

Transaction costs

-

42,910

110,926

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

2,284

(2,448)

(58,427)

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

37,241

17,214

34,677

Provision for loan losses

62,966

10,215

-

Impairment of assets

124,483

37,207

2,220

Other expenses

177,776

11,998

46,231

Total expenses

4,017,025

3,571,907

3,223,709

Income from continuing operations before income taxes

and income from unconsolidated entities

299,616

709,253

636,117

Income tax (expense) benefit

(20,128)

19,128

(6,451)

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

(83,125)

(10,357)

(21,504)

Income from continuing operations

196,363

718,024

608,162

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

344,250

364,046

280,387

Net income

540,613

1,082,070

888,549

Less:  Preferred stock dividends

49,410

65,406

65,406

Less:  Preferred stock redemption charge

9,769

-

-

Less:  Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling
  interests

(1)

17,839

4,267

4,799

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

463,595

$

1,012,397

$

818,344

Average number of common shares outstanding:

Basic

367,237

358,275

348,240

Diluted

369,001

360,227

349,424

Earnings per share:

Basic:

Income from continuing operations

$

0.53

$

2.00

$

1.75

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

1.26

$

2.83

$

2.35

Diluted:

Income from continuing operations

$

0.53

$

1.99

$

1.74

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

1.26

$

2.81

$

2.34

(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling
interests

See accompanying notes


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(CONTINUED)

WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

(In thousands)

Year Ended December 31,




Net income

$

540,613

$

1,082,070

$

888,549

Other comprehensive income (loss):

Unrecognized gain (loss) on equity investments

-

5,120

-

Reclassification adjustment for write down of equity investment

(5,120)

-

-

Unrecognized gain (loss) on cash flow hedges


1,414

(766)

Unrecognized actuarial gain (loss)




Foreign currency translation gain (loss)

85,263

(85,557)

(46,679)

Total other comprehensive income (loss)

80,414

(78,833)

(47,199)

Total comprehensive income

621,027

1,003,237

841,350

Less: Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to
  noncontrolling interests

(1)

40,187

6,722

(31,166)

Total comprehensive income attributable to stockholders

$

580,840

$

996,515

$

872,516

(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling
  interests.

See accompanying notes


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

(in
  thousands)

Accumulated

Capital in

Other

Preferred

Common

Excess of

Treasury

Cumulative

Cumulative

Comprehensive

Other

Noncontrolling

Stock

Stock

Par Value

Stock

Net Income

Dividends

Income (Loss)

Equity

Interests

Total

Balances at December 31, 2014

$

1,006,250

$

328,835

$

14,740,712

$

(35,241)

$

2,842,022

$

(5,635,923)

$

(77,009)

$

5,507

$

297,896

$

13,473,049

Comprehensive income:

Net income

883,750

4,878

888,628

Other comprehensive income (loss)

(11,234)

(35,965)

(47,199)

Total comprehensive income

841,429

Net change in noncontrolling interests

(23,077)

318,516

295,439

Amounts related to issuance of common stock

from dividend reinvestment and stock

incentive plans, net of forfeitures


25,053

(9,131)

(2,107)

13,941

Net proceeds from issuance of common stock

24,520

1,730,181

1,754,701

Equity component of convertible debt

1,330

5,431

6,761

Option compensation expense



Cash dividends paid:

Common stock dividends

(1,144,727)

(1,144,727)

Preferred stock dividends

(65,406)

(65,406)

Balances at December 31, 2015

1,006,250

354,811

16,478,300

(44,372)

3,725,772

(6,846,056)

(88,243)

4,098

585,325

15,175,885

Comprehensive income:

Net income

1,077,803

9,277

1,087,080

Other comprehensive income (loss)

(81,288)

2,455

(78,833)

Total comprehensive income

1,008,247

Net change in noncontrolling interests

(51,478)

(121,978)

(173,456)

Amounts related to issuance of common stock

from dividend reinvestment and stock

incentive plans, net of forfeitures


46,938

(10,369)

(1,305)

36,103

Net proceeds from issuance of common stock

7,421

525,931

533,352

Option compensation expense



Cash dividends paid:

Common stock dividends

(1,233,519)

(1,233,519)

Preferred stock dividends

(65,406)

(65,406)

Balances at December 31, 2016

1,006,250

363,071

16,999,691

(54,741)

4,803,575

(8,144,981)

(169,531)

3,059

475,079

15,281,472

Comprehensive income:

Net income

522,774

20,819

543,593

Other comprehensive income (loss)

58,066

22,348

80,414

Total comprehensive income

624,007

Net change in noncontrolling interests

13,473

(15,941)

(2,468)

Amounts related to issuance of common stock

from dividend reinvestment and stock

incentive plans, net of forfeitures


21,494

(9,807)

(2,399)

9,690

Net proceeds from issuance of common stock

8,881

612,555

621,436

Redemption of equity membership units


5,465

(11)

5,545

Redemption of preferred stock

(287,500)

9,760

(9,769)

(287,509)

Conversion of preferred stock

(247)



-

Option compensation expense



Cash dividends paid:

Common stock dividends

(1,277,321)

(1,277,321)

Preferred stock dividends

(49,410)

(49,410)

Balances at December 31, 2017

$

718,503

$

372,449

$

17,662,681

$

(64,559)

$

5,316,580

$

(9,471,712)

$

(111,465)

$


$

502,305

$

14,925,452

See accompanying notes


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

WELLTOWER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

(in thousands)

Year Ended December 31,




Operating activities:

Net income

$

540,613

$

1,082,070

$

888,549

Adjustments to reconcile net income to

net cash provided from (used in) operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

921,720

901,242

826,240

Other amortization expenses

16,521

8,822

4,991

Provision for loan losses

62,966

10,215

-

Impairment of assets

124,483

37,207

2,220

Stock-based compensation expense

19,102

28,869

30,844

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

2,284

(2,448)

(58,427)

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

37,241

17,214

34,677

Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities

83,125

10,357

21,504

Rental income in excess of cash received

(80,398)

(83,233)

(115,756)

Amortization related to above (below) market leases, net



4,018

Loss (gain) on sales of properties, net

(344,250)

(364,046)

(280,387)

Other (income) expense, net


(4,853)

31,979

Distributions by unconsolidated entities


1,065


Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other liabilities

26,809

14,298

(8,968)

Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets

23,486

(18,037)


Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities

1,434,177

1,639,064

1,382,599

Investing activities:

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

(805,264)

(2,145,374)

(3,353,087)

Cash disbursed for capital improvements to existing properties

(250,276)

(219,146)

(187,752)

Cash disbursed for construction in progress

(232,715)

(403,131)

(244,561)

Capitalized interest

(13,489)

(16,943)

(8,670)

Investment in real estate loans receivable

(83,738)

(129,884)

(598,722)

Other investments, net of payments

57,385

4,760

(141,994)

Principal collected on real estate loans receivable

96,023

249,552

131,830

Contributions to unconsolidated entities

(114,365)

(101,415)

(160,323)

Distributions by unconsolidated entities

70,287

119,723

130,880

Proceeds from (payments on) derivatives

52,719

108,347

106,360

Proceeds from sales of real property

1,378,014

2,350,068

823,964

Net cash provided from (used in) investing activities

154,581

(183,443)

(3,502,075)

Financing activities:

Net increase (decrease) under unsecured credit facilities

74,000

(190,000)

835,000

Proceeds from issuance of senior unsecured notes

7,500

693,560

1,451,434

Payments to extinguish senior unsecured notes

(5,000)

(865,863)

(558,830)

Net proceeds from the issuance of secured debt

241,772

460,015

228,685

Payments on secured debt

(1,144,346)

(563,759)

(573,390)

Net proceeds from the issuance of common stock

621,987

534,194

1,755,722

Redemption of preferred stock

(287,500)

-

-

Decrease (increase) in deferred loan expenses

(54,333)

(22,196)

(11,513)

Contributions by noncontrolling interests

(1)

56,560

148,666

173,018

Distributions to noncontrolling interests

(1)

(87,711)

(134,578)

(50,877)

Acquisitions of noncontrolling interests

-

-

(5,663)

Cash distributions to stockholders

(1,325,617)

(1,298,925)

(1,210,133)

Other financing activities

(10,839)

(11,931)

(36,135)

Net cash provided from (used in) financing activities

(1,913,527)

(1,250,817)

1,997,318

Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash
  equivalents

26,852

(20,274)

(8,575)

Increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted
  cash

(297,917)

184,530

(130,733)

Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of
  period

607,220

422,690

553,423

Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period

$

309,303

$

607,220

$

422,690

Supplemental cash flow information:

Interest paid

$

488,265

$

541,545

$

492,771

Income taxes paid

10,410

8,011

12,214

(1)

Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling
interests.

See accompanying notes.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Business

Welltower Inc., an S&P 500
company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio, is driving the transformation of health
care infrastructure.  The Company invests with leading seniors housing
operators, post-acute providers and health systems to fund the real estate and
infrastructure needed to scale innovative care delivery models and improve
people’s wellness and overall health care experience.  Welltower

TM

,
a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), owns interests in properties concentrated
in major, high-growth markets in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada and the
United Kingdom (“U.K.”), consisting of seniors housing and post-acute communities
and outpatient medical properties.

2. Accounting Policies and
Related Matters

Use of
Estimates

The preparation of the consolidated financial
statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
(“U.S. GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying
notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Principles of
Consolidation

The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint
venture (“JV”) entities that we control, through voting rights or other means.
All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in
consolidation. At inception of JV transactions, we identify entities for which
control is achieved through means other than voting rights (“variable interest
entities” or “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary
beneficiary of its operations. A VIE is broadly defined as an entity where
either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a
controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is
insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional
subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are
determined to be the primary beneficiary.  Accounting Standards Codification
Topic 810,

Consolidations

(“ASC 810”), requires enterprises to perform a
qualitative approach to determining whether or not a VIE will need to be
consolidated. This evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and
influence the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact that entity’s
economic performance. For investments in JVs, U.S. GAAP may preclude
consolidation by the sole general partner in certain circumstances based on the
type of rights held by the limited partner(s).  We assess the limited partners’
rights and their impact on our consolidation conclusions, and we reassess if
there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the rights of the
limited partners, the sole general partner increases or decreases its ownership
of limited partnership interests, or there is an increase or decrease in the
number of outstanding limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the
rights of managing members of limited liability companies.

Revenue Recognition

Revenue is recorded in accordance
with U.S. GAAP, which requires that revenue be recognized after four basic
criteria are met. These four criteria include persuasive evidence of an
arrangement, the rendering of service, fixed and determinable income, and
reasonably assured collectability. Interest income on loans is recognized as
earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of
collectability risk. Substantially all of our operating leases contain
escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are
generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial lease period,
subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to leases with
contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the contractual
cash rental payments due for the period.  Leases in our outpatient medical
portfolio typically include some form of operating expense reimbursement by the
tenant.  Certain payments made to operators are treated as lease incentives and
amortized as a reduction of revenue over the lease term.  We recognize resident
fees and services, other than move-in fees, monthly as services are provided. 
Lease agreements with residents generally have a term of one year and are
cancelable by the resident with 30 days’ notice.

Cash and Cash
Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist of
all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or
less.

Restricted Cash

Restricted cash primarily consists
of amounts held by lenders to provide future payments for real estate taxes,
insurance, tenant and capital improvements, amounts held in escrow relating to
acquisitions we are entitled to receive over a period of time as outlined in
the escrow agreement and net proceeds from property sales that were executed as
tax-deferred dispositions under

Internal Revenue Code
(“IRC”) section 1031

.

At December 31, 2017, $5,843,000 of sales proceeds is on
deposit in a IRC section 1031 exchange escrow account with a qualified
intermediary.

Deferred Loan Expenses

Deferred loan expenses are costs
incurred by us in connection with the issuance, assumption and amendments of
debt arrangements. Deferred loan expenses related to debt instruments,
excluding the primary unsecured credit facility, are recorded as a reduction of
the related debt liability.  Deferred loan expenses related to the primary
unsecured credit facility are included in other assets.  We amortize these
costs over the term of the debt using the straight-line method, which
approximates the effective interest


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

method.

Investments in
Unconsolidated Entities

Investments in entities that we do
not consolidate but have the ability to exercise significant influence over
operating and financial policies are reported under the equity method of
accounting.  Under the equity method, our share of the investee’s earnings or
losses is included in our consolidated results of operations. The initial
carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based on the amount
paid to purchase the entity interest inclusive of transaction costs.  To the
extent that our cost basis is different from the basis reflected at the entity
level, the basis difference is generally amortized over the lives of the
related assets and liabilities, and such amortization is included in our share
of equity in earnings of the entity.  We evaluate our equity method investments
for impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value of the
equity method investment to its carrying value. When we determine a decline in
the estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying value is
other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.

Marketable Securities

We classify marketable securities as
available-for-sale.  These securities are carried at their fair value with
unrealized gains and losses recognized in stockholders’ equity as a component
of accumulated other comprehensive income.  When we determine declines in fair
value of marketable securities are other-than-temporary, a loss is recognized
in earnings.

Redeemable
Noncontrolling Interests

Certain noncontrolling interests are
redeemable at fair value.  Accordingly, we record the carrying amount of the
noncontrolling interests at the greater of (i) the initial carrying amount,
increased or decreased for the noncontrolling interest’s share of net income or
loss and its share of other comprehensive income or loss, and dividends or (ii)
the redemption value.  If it is probable that the interests will be redeemed in
the future, we accrete the carrying value to the redemption value over the
period until expected redemption, currently a weighted-average period of
approximately four years.  In accordance with ASC 810, the redeemable
noncontrolling interests are classified outside of permanent equity, as a mezzanine
item, in the balance sheet.  At December 31, 2017, the current redemption value
of redeemable noncontrolling interests exceeded the carrying value of
$375,194,000 by $29,587,000.

During 2014 and 2015, we entered into DownREIT partnerships
which give a real estate seller the ability to exchange its property on a tax
deferred basis for equity membership interests (“OP units”).  The OP units may
be redeemed any time following the first anniversary of the date of issuance at
the election of the holders for one share of our common stock per unit or, at
our option, cash.

Real Property Owned

On January 1, 2017, we adopted
Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a
Business (“ASU 2017-01”) which narrows the Financial Accounting Standards
Board’s (“FASB”) definition of a business and provides a framework that gives
entities a basis for making reasonable judgments about whether a transaction
involves an asset or a business. ASU 2017-01 states that when substantially all
of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single
identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, the acquired asset
is not a business. If this initial test is not met, an acquired asset cannot be
considered a business unless it includes an input and a substantive process
that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output. The
primary differences between business combinations and asset acquisitions
include recording the asset acquisition at relative fair value, capitalizing
transaction costs, and the elimination of the measurement period in which to
record adjustments to the transaction. We believe that substantially all our
real estate acquisitions are considered asset acquisitions.  We are applying ASU
2017-01 prospectively for acquisitions after January 1, 2017. Real property
developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of
construction period interest. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are
expensed as incurred.

Regardless of whether an acquisition is considered an asset
acquisition or a business combination, the cost of real property acquired,
which represents substantially all of the purchase price, is allocated to net
tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their relative fair
values. These properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and 5
to 15 years for improvements. Tangible assets primarily consist of land, buildings
and improvements, including those related to capital leases.  We consider costs
incurred in conjunction with re-leasing properties, including tenant
improvements and lease commissions, to represent the acquisition of productive
assets and, accordingly, such costs are reflected as investment activities in
our consolidated statement of cash flows.

The remaining purchase price is allocated among identifiable
intangible assets primarily consisting of the above or below market component
of in-place leases and the value associated with the presence of in-place leases. 
The value allocable to the above or below market component of the acquired
in-place lease is determined based upon the present value (using a discount
rate which reflects the risks associated with the acquired leases) of the
difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the
lease over its remaining term, and (ii) management’s estimate of the
amounts that would be paid using fair market rates over the remaining term of
the lease. The amounts allocated to above market leases are included in
acquired lease intangibles and below market leases are included in other
liabilities in the balance sheet and are amortized to rental income over the
remaining terms of the respective leases or lease-up period.

The total amount of other intangible assets acquired is
further allocated to in-place lease values and customer relationship values for
in-place tenants based on management’s evaluation of the specific
characteristics of each tenant’s lease and our overall relationship with that
respective tenant. Characteristics considered by management in allocating these
values include the nature and extent of our


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

existing
business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new
business with the tenant, the tenant’s credit quality and expectations of lease
renewals, among other factors

.  The total amount of other intangible
assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease values for in-place
residents with such value representing (i) value associated with lost revenue
related to tenant reimbursable operating costs that would be incurred in an
assumed re-leasing period, and (ii) value associated with lost rental revenue
from existing leases during an assumed re-leasing period.  This intangible
asset will be amortized over the remaining life of the lease.

The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly
on a property by property basis to determine if facts and circumstances suggest
that the assets may be impaired or that the depreciable life may need to be
changed. We consider external factors relating to each asset and the existence
of a master lease which may link the cash flows of an individual asset to a
larger portfolio of assets leased to the same tenant. If these factors and the
projected undiscounted cash flows of the assets over the remaining depreciation
period indicate that the assets will not be recoverable, the carrying value is
reduced to the estimated fair market value.

In addition, we are exposed to the
risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular,
the seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate
industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to
sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us.

Additionally, properties that
meet the held-for-sale criteria are recorded at the lessor of fair value less
costs to sell or the carrying value.

Capitalization of
Construction Period Interest

We capitalize interest costs
associated with funds used for the construction of properties owned directly by
us. The amount capitalized is based upon the balance outstanding during the
construction period using the rate of interest which approximates our Company-wide
cost of financing. Our interest expense reflected in the consolidated
statements of comprehensive income has been reduced by the amounts capitalized.

Gain on Real Estate
Dispositions

We recognize sales of real estate assets
only upon the closing of the transaction with the purchaser. Payments received
from purchasers prior to closing are recorded as deposits and classified as
other assets on our consolidated balance sheets. Gains on real estate assets
sold are recognized using the full accrual method upon closing when (i) the
collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured, (ii) we are not
obligated to perform significant activities after the sale to earn the profit,
(iii) we have received adequate initial investment from the purchaser, and (iv)
other profit recognition criteria have been satisfied. Gains may be deferred in
whole or in part until the sales satisfy the requirements of gain recognition
on sales of real estate.

Real Estate Loans
Receivable

Real estate loans receivable consist
of mortgage loans and other real estate loans. Interest income on loans is
recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an
evaluation of collectability risks. The loans are primarily collateralized by a
first, second or third mortgage lien, a leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment
of the partnership interest in, the related properties, corporate guaranties
and/or personal guaranties.

Allowance for Losses on
Loans Receivable

The allowance for losses on loans
receivable is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential
losses in our loans receivable. The determination of the allowance is based on
a quarterly evaluation of these loans, including general economic conditions
and estimated collectability of loan payments. We evaluate the collectability
of our loans receivable based on a combination of factors, including, but not
limited to, delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength
of the borrower and guarantors, and value of the underlying collateral. If such
factors indicate that there is greater risk of loan charge-offs, additional
allowances or placement on non-accrual status may be required. A loan is
impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we
will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the
contractual terms of the original loan agreement. Consistent with this
definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired. To the extent
circumstances improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we will
return these loans to income accrual status. While a loan is on non-accrual
status, any cash receipts are applied against the outstanding principal
balance.

Any
loans with collectability concerns are subjected to a projected payoff
valuation.  The valuation is based on the expected future cash flows and/or the
estimated fair value of the underlying collateral.  The valuation is compared
to the outstanding balance to determine the reserve needed for each loan.  We
may base our valuation on a loan’s observable market price, if any, or the fair
value of collateral, net of sales costs, if the repayment of the loan is
expected to be provided solely by the collateral.

Goodwill

We account for goodwill in accordance with
U.S. GAAP. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and is tested for
impairment more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset
might be impaired. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the
carrying amount, including goodwill, exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value
and the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount of that
goodwill.  We have not had any goodwill impairments.

Fair Value of Derivative
Instruments

Derivatives are recorded at fair
value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.  The valuation of
derivative instruments requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect
the fair value of the instruments.  Fair values of our derivatives are
estimated by


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

pricing models that consider the forward
yield curves and discount rates.  The fair value of our forward exchange
contracts are estimated by pricing models that consider foreign currency spot
rates, forward trade rates and discount rates.  Such amounts and the recognition
of such amounts are subject to significant estimates that may change in the
future. See Note 11 for additional information.

Federal Income Tax

We have elected to be treated as a REIT
under the applicable provisions of the IRC, commencing with our first taxable
year, and made no provision for U.S. federal income tax purposes prior to our
acquisition of our taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”). As a result of these as
well as subsequent acquisitions, we now record income tax expense or benefit
with respect to certain of our entities that are taxed as TRSs under provisions
similar to those applicable to regular corporations and not under the REIT
provisions. We account for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability
method and recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected
future tax consequences of events that have been included in our consolidated financial
statements or tax returns. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets
and liabilities based on the differences between the financial reporting and
tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the
year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Any increase or decrease
in the deferred tax liability that results from a change in circumstances, and
that causes a change in our judgment about expected future tax consequences of
events, is included in the tax provision when such changes occur. Deferred
income taxes also reflect the impact of operating loss and tax credit
carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided if we believe it is more
likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be
realized. Any increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from
a change in circumstances, and that causes a change in our judgment about the
realizability of the related deferred tax asset, is included in the tax
provision when such changes occur.  See Note 18 for additional
information.

Foreign Currency

Certain of our subsidiaries’ functional currencies are the
local currencies of their respective countries. We translate the results of
operations of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using average rates of
exchange in effect during the period, and we translate balance sheet accounts
using exchange rates in effect at the end of the period. We record resulting
currency translation adjustments in accumulated other comprehensive income, a
component of stockholders’ equity, on our consolidated balance sheets. We
record transaction gains and losses in our consolidated statements of
comprehensive income.

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share is computed
by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average
number of shares outstanding for the period adjusted for non-vested shares of
restricted stock. The computation of diluted earnings per share is similar to
basic earnings per share, except that the number of shares is increased to
include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding
if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued.

Reclassifications

Certain amounts in prior years have
been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

New Accounting
Standards

During the year ended December 31, 2017, we adopted the
following additional accounting standards, each of which did not have a
material impact on our consolidated financial statements:

·

We adopted ASU No.
2016-09, “Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting” on January
1, 2017, which allows companies to make a policy election as to whether they
will include an estimate of awards expected to be forfeited or whether they
will account for forfeitures as they occur.  We elected to account for forfeitures
as they occur. This election had an immaterial impact on our consolidated
financial statements.  The standard also requires an employer to classify as a
financing activity in the consolidated statement of cash flow the cash paid to
a tax authority when shares are withheld to satisfy the employer’s statutory
income tax withholding obligation.  This aspect of the standard is required to
be applied on a retrospective basis and resulted in an increase in net cash
provided by operating activities and a decrease in net cash used in financing
activities of $10,369,000 and $9,131,000 for the years ended December 31, 2016
and 2015, respectively.  Upon adoption, no other provisions of ASU 2016-09 had
an effect on our

consolidated

financial
statements or related footnote disclosures.

·

During the three months ended
December 31, 2017, we adopted ASU No. 2016-18, “Restricted Cash,” and ASU No.
2016-15, “Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.”  ASU No.
2016-18 requires an entity to reconcile and explain the period over period
change in total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash within its consolidated
statement of cash flows and ASU 2016-15 provides guidance clarifying how
certain cash receipts and cash payments should be classified.  We adopted these
accounting standards retrospectively and, accordingly, certain line items in
the consolidated statement of cash flows have been reclassified to conform to
the current presentation.  The following table summarizes the change in cash
flows as reported and as previously reported prior to the adoption of these
standards (in thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year Ended

December 31, 2016

December 31, 2015

As Previously

As Previously

As Reported

Reported

As Reported

Reported

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

$

(2,145,374)

$

(2,145,590)

$

(3,353,087)

$

(3,364,891)

Decrease (increase) in restricted cash

-

(125,844)

-

29,719

Net cash provided from (used in) investing activities

(183,443)

(309,503)

(3,502,075)

(3,484,160)

Increase (decrease) in balance

(1)

184,530

58,470

(130,733)

(112,818)

Balance at beginning of period

(1)

422,690

360,908

553,423

473,726

Balance at end of period

(1)

607,220

419,378

422,690

360,908

(1) Amounts in As Reported column include cash and cash
  equivalents and restricted cash as required.  Amounts in the As Previously
  Reported column reflect only cash and cash equivalents.

The
following ASUs have been issued but not yet adopted:

·

In 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606),” which is a
comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires revenue to be
recognized in a manner to depict the transfer of goods or services to a
customer at an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received in
exchange for those goods or services.  ASC 606 is effective for us beginning
January 1, 2018 and we will use the modified retrospective method of adoption.

We
have evaluated our various revenue streams to identify whether they would be
subject to the provisions of ASC 606 and any differences in timing, measurement,
or presentation of revenue recognition.  A significant source of our revenue is
generated through leasing arrangements, which are specifically excluded from
ASU 2014-09.  Management contracts are present in our seniors housing operating
and outpatient medical segments and represent agreements to provide asset and
property management, leasing, marketing and other services.  We do not believe
that the pattern and timing of recognition of income for these contracts will
change under the provisions of ASC 606.  In addition, revenue recognition for
real estate sales is mainly based on the transfer of control and when it is
probable that we will collect substantially all of the related consideration. 
We expect that the new guidance will result in more transactions qualifying as
sales of real estate and being recognized at an earlier date than under the
current guidance.

·

In 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, “Financial Instruments –
Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities,” which will require entities to measure their financial instrument
investments at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value in net income
unless the investments qualify for the new practicability exception.  The
practicability exception will be available for equity investments that do not
have readily determinable fair values.  ASU 2016-01 is effective for fiscal
years and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15,
2017.  This standard will require us to recognize gains and losses from changes
in the fair value of our available-for-sale equity securities through the
consolidated statement of comprehensive income rather than through accumulated
other comprehensive income beginning in 2018.

·

In 2016, the FASB issued
ASU No. 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842),” which requires lessees to recognize
assets and liabilities on their consolidated balance sheet related to the
rights and obligations created by most leases, while continuing to recognize
expenses on their consolidated statements of comprehensive income over the
lease term.  It will also require disclosures designed to give financial
statement users information regarding amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash
flows arising from leases.  The FASB issued an Exposure Draft in January 2018
proposing to amend ASU 2016-02, which would provide lessors with a practical
expedient, by class of underlying assets, to not separate non-lease components
from the related lease components and, instead, to account for those components
as a single lease component, if certain criteria are met.  ASU 2016-02 and the
Exposure Draft are effective for us beginning January 1, 2019, with early
adoption permitted.  Entities are required to use a modified retrospective
approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the
earliest comparative period in the consolidated financial statements.  We are
currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on our consolidated financial
statements from both the lessee and lessor perspective.  We believe that
adoption will likely have a material impact to our consolidated financial
statements for the recognition of certain operating leases as right-of-use
assets and lease liabilities and related amortizations.  We expect to utilize
the practical expedients proposed in the Exposure Draft as part of our adoption
of this guidance.

·

In 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, “Measurement of Credit
Losses on Financial Instruments.”  This standard requires a new forward-looking
“expected loss” model to be used for receivables, held-to-maturity debt, loans,
and other instruments.  ASU 2016-13 is effective for fiscal years, and interim
periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019, and early
adoption is permitted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018.  We
are currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on our
consolidated financial statements.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

·

In 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-05, “Other Income – Gains
and Losses from the Derecognition of Nonfinancial Assets (Subtopic 610-20):
Clarifying the Scope of Asset Derecognition Guidance and Accounting for Partial
Sales of Nonfinancial Assets.”  The standard clarifies that a financial asset
is within the scope of Subtopic 610-20 if it meets the definition of an in
substance nonfinancial asset.  The standard also defines the term in substance
nonfinancial asset and clarifies that an entity should identify each distinct
nonfinancial asset or in substance nonfinancial asset promised to a
counterparty and derecognize each asset when a counterparty obtains control
over it.  ASU 2017-05 is effective for annual periods beginning after December
15, 2017 and interim periods therein.  Entities may use either a full or
modified adoption approach.  We are assessing the impact of the standard but do
not expect it to have a material impact on our consolidated financial
statements or disclosures.

3. Real Property Acquisitions and Development

The total purchase price
for all properties acquired has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable
intangible assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests based upon their relative
fair values in accordance with our accounting policies.

The results of operations for these acquisitions have been included in
our consolidated results of operations since the date of acquisition and are a
component of the appropriate segments.  Transaction costs primarily represent
costs incurred with property acquisitions, including due diligence costs, fees
for legal and valuation services, termination of pre-existing relationships
computed based on the fair value of the assets acquired, lease termination fees,
and other acquisition-related costs.  Effective January 1, 2017, with our
adoption of ASU 2017-01, transaction costs incurred for asset acquisitions are
capitalized as a component of purchase price and all other non-capitalizable
costs are reflected in “Other Expenses” on our consolidated statement of
comprehensive income.  Acquisitions that occurred prior to January 1, 2017,
were accounted for as business combinations.  Certain of our subsidiaries’
functional currencies are the local currencies of their respective countries. 
See Notes 2 and 11 for information regarding our foreign currency policies. 
During the year ended December 31, 2017, we

finalized our purchase price
allocation of certain previously reported acquisitions and there were no
material changes from those previously disclosed.

Triple-Net Activity

The following provides
our purchase price allocations and other triple-net real property investment
activity for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Land and land improvements

$

33,416

$

104,754

$

95,835

Buildings and improvements

248,459

418,633

1,061,431

Acquired lease intangibles

-

2,876

4,408

Receivables and other assets

-



Total assets acquired

(1)

281,875

526,814

1,161,868

Secured debt

-

-

(47,741)

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

(21,236)

(3,384)

(2,905)

Total liabilities assumed

(21,236)

(3,384)

(50,646)

Noncontrolling interests

(7,275)

(26,771)

(13,465)

Non-cash acquisition related activity

(2)

(54,901)

(51,733)

(38,355)

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

198,463

444,926

1,059,402

Construction in progress additions

120,797

181,084

143,140

Less:  Capitalized interest

(4,713)

(8,729)

(5,699)

Accruals

Foreign currency translation

(610)

(3,665)

(167)

Cash disbursed for construction in progress

115,474

168,690

137,274

Capital improvements to existing properties

19,989

32,603

45,293

Total cash invested in real property, net of cash acquired

$

333,926

$

646,219

$

1,241,969

(1) Excludes $318,000, $682,000 and $16,578,000 of cash and
  restricted cash acquired during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and
  2015, respectively.

(2)  For the year ended December 31, 2017, $54,901,000 is
  related to the acquisition of assets previously financed as real estate loans
  receivable.  For the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily relates to
  $45,044,000 for the acquisition of assets previously financed as real estate
  loans receivable and $6,630,000 previously financed as an equity investment. 
  For the year ended December 31, 2015, primarily relates to $23,288,000 for
  the acquisition of assets previously financed as real estate loans receivable
  and $6,743,000 previously financed as equity investments.

Seniors Housing Operating Activity

Acquisitions of seniors
housing operating properties are structured under RIDEA, which is described in
Note 18.  This structure results in the inclusion of all resident revenues and
related property operating expenses from the operation of these qualified
health care properties in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income.
The following is a summary of our seniors housing operating real property
investment activity for the periods presented (in thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year Ended December 31,




Land and land improvements

$

42,525

$

164,653

$

218,581

Buildings and improvements

428,777

1,518,472

2,367,486

Acquired lease intangibles

63,912

115,643

187,512

Receivables and other assets

3,959

2,462

29,501

Total assets acquired

(1)

539,173

1,801,230

2,803,080

Secured debt

-

(63,732)

(871,471)

Senior unsecured notes

-

-

(24,621)

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

(46,301)

(23,681)

(81,778)

Total liabilities assumed

(46,301)

(87,413)

(977,870)

Noncontrolling interests

(4,701)

(6,007)

(183,854)

Non-cash acquisition related activity

(67,633)

(2)

(47,065)

(3)

-

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

420,538

1,660,745

1,641,356

Construction in progress additions

84,874

157,845

44,173

Less:  Capitalized interest

(9,106)

(5,793)

(1,740)

Less:  Foreign currency translation

(6,830)

(8,500)

(2,499)

Cash disbursed for construction in progress

68,938

143,552

39,934

Capital improvements to existing properties

185,473

138,673

104,308

Total cash invested in real property, net of cash acquired

$

674,949

$

1,942,970

$

1,785,598

(1) Excludes $6,273,000, $351,000 and $42,728,000 of cash and
  restricted cash acquired during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and
  2015, respectively.

(2) Includes $59,665,000 related to the acquisition of assets
  previously financed as investments in unconsolidated entities, and $6,349,000
  related to the acquisition of assets previously financed as real estate loans
  receivable.

(3) Includes $43,372,000 related to the acquisition of assets
  previously financed as investments in unconsolidated entities.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Outpatient Medical Activity

The following is a
summary of our outpatient medical real property investment activity for the
periods presented (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Land and land improvements

$

40,565

$

5,738

$

223,708

Buildings and improvements

159,643

46,056

614,770

Acquired lease intangibles

24,014

4,592

45,226

Receivables and other assets


-


Total assets acquired

224,232

56,386

884,643

Secured debt

(25,708)

-

(120,977)

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

(3,181)

(1,670)

(7,777)

Total liabilities assumed

(28,889)

(1,670)

(128,754)

Noncontrolling interests

(9,080)

-

(76,535)

Non-cash acquisition related activity

-

(15,013)

(2)

(27,025)

(3)

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

(1)

186,263

39,703

652,329

Construction in progress additions

37,094

113,933

70,560

Less:  Capitalized interest

(2,406)

(3,723)

(1,286)

Accruals

(4)

13,615

(19,321)

(1,921)

Cash disbursed for construction in progress

48,303

90,889

67,353

Capital improvements to existing properties

44,814

47,870

38,151

Total cash invested in real property, net of cash acquired

$

279,380

$

178,462

$

757,833

(1) Excludes $5,522,000 of cash acquired during the year ended
  December 31, 2015.

(2) The non-cash activity relates to the acquisition of assets
  previously financed as real estate loans.  Please refer to Note 6 for
  additional information.

(3) The non-cash activity relates to the acquisition of a
  controlling interest in a portfolio of properties that was historically
  reported as an unconsolidated property investment.

(4) Represents non-cash consideration accruals for amounts to be
  paid in future periods for properties that converted, off-set by amounts paid
  in the current period.

Construction
Activity

The following is a summary of the
construction projects that were placed into service and began generating
revenues during the periods presented (in thousands):

Year Ended

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

December 31, 2015

Development projects:

Triple-net

$

283,472

$

46,094

$

104,844

Seniors housing operating

3,634

18,979

19,869

Outpatient medical

63,036

108,001

16,592

Total development projects

350,142

173,074

141,305

Expansion projects

10,336

11,363

38,808

Total construction in progress conversions

$

360,478

$

184,437

$

180,113

At December 31, 2017,
future minimum lease payments receivable under operating leases (excluding
properties in our seniors housing operating partnerships and excluding any
operating expense reimbursements) are as follows (in thousands):


$

1,098,987


1,056,731


1,034,583


980,716


944,028

Thereafter

7,771,145

Totals

$

12,886,190


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

4. Real Estate Intangibles

The following is a summary of our real
estate intangibles, excluding those classified as held for sale, as of the
dates indicated (dollars in thousands):

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

Assets:

In place lease intangibles

$

1,352,139

$

1,252,143

Above market tenant leases

58,443

61,700

Below market ground leases

58,784

61,628

Lease commissions

33,105

27,413

Gross historical cost

1,502,471

1,402,884

Accumulated amortization

(1,125,437)

(966,714)

Net book value

$

377,034

$

436,170

Weighted-average amortization period in years

15.1

13.7

Liabilities:

Below market tenant leases

$

60,430

$

89,468

Above market ground leases

8,540

8,107

Gross historical cost

68,970

97,575

Accumulated amortization

(39,629)

(52,134)

Net book value

$

29,341

$

45,441

Weighted-average amortization period in years

20.1

15.2

The following is a summary of
real estate intangible amortization for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Rental income related to above/below market tenant leases, net

$


$


$

(2,746)

Property operating expenses related to above/below market ground
  leases, net

(1,231)

(1,241)

(1,272)

Depreciation and amortization related to in place lease intangibles
  and lease commissions

(145,132)

(132,141)

(115,855)

The future estimated
aggregate amortization of intangible assets and liabilities is as follows for
the periods presented (in thousands):

Assets

Liabilities


$

111,339

$

3,765


55,336

3,306


34,402

2,809


20,419

2,321


17,213

1,856

Thereafter

138,325

15,284

Totals

$

377,034

$

29,341

5. Dispositions,
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations

We
periodically sell properties for various reasons, including favorable market
conditions, the exercise of tenant purchase options, or reduction of
concentrations (e.g. property type, relationship, or geography).  At December
31, 2017, 50 triple-net, three seniors housing operating and 20 outpatient
medical properties with an aggregate net real estate balance of $734,147,000
were classified as held for sale. Secured debt related to the held for sale
properties totaled $66,872,000. Impairment of assets, as reflected in our
consolidated statements of comprehensive income, primarily represents the
charges necessary to adjust the carrying values of certain properties to
estimated fair values less costs to sell.  The following is a summary of our
real property disposition activity for the periods presented (in thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year Ended

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

December 31, 2015

Real property dispositions:

Triple-net

$

916,689

$

1,773,614

$

356,300

Seniors housing operating

74,832

-

-

Outpatient medical

(1)

19,697

78,786

181,553

Land parcels

-

-

5,724

Total dispositions

1,011,218

1,852,400

543,577

Gain (loss) on sales of real property, net

344,250

364,046

280,387

Net other assets (liabilities) disposed

22,546

133,622

-

Proceeds from real property sales

$

1,378,014

$

2,350,068

$

823,964

(1) Dispositions occurring in the year ended December 31, 2015
  primarily relate to the disposition of an unconsolidated equity investment
  with Forest City Enterprises.

During
the year ended December 31, 2016, we completed two portfolio dispositions of
properties leased to Genesis HealthCare (“Genesis”) for which we received loans
in the amount of $74,445,000 for termination fees relating to the properties
sold under the master lease.  The related termination fee income has been deferred
and will be recognized as the principal balance of the loans are repaid.  At
December 31, 2017, $61,994,000 of principal is outstanding on the loans.

Dispositions and Assets Held for Sale

Pursuant to our adoption of ASU No. 2014-08, “Presentation
of Financial Statements (Topic 205) and Property, Plant and Equipment (Topic
360): Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of
Components of an Entity” (ASU 2014-08”), operating results attributable to
properties sold subsequent to or classified as held for sale after January 1,
2014 and which do not meet the definition of discontinued operations are no
longer reclassified on our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. 
The following represents the activity related to these properties for the
periods presented (in thousands):

Year Ended

December 31,




Revenues:

Rental income

$

120,681

$

401,742

$

435,404

Expenses:

Interest expense

6,570

47,083

68,978

Property operating expenses

12,402

20,847

22,313

Provision for depreciation

31,736

98,949

114,869

Total expenses

50,708

166,879

206,160

Income (loss) from real estate dispositions, net

$

69,973

$

234,863

$

229,244

6. Real Estate
Loans Receivable

The following is a summary
of our real estate loans receivable (in thousands):

December 31,



Mortgage loans

$

374,492

$

485,735

Other real estate loans

121,379

136,893

Totals

$

495,871

$

622,628

The following is a
summary of our real estate loan activity for the periods presented (in
thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year Ended

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

December 31, 2015

Outpatient

Outpatient

Outpatient

Triple-net

Medical

Totals

Triple-net

Medical

Totals

Triple-net

Medical

Totals

Advances on real estate loans receivable:

Investments in new loans

$

12,091

$

-

$

12,091

$

8,445

$

-

$

8,445

$

530,497

$

-

$

530,497

Draws on existing loans

71,647

-

71,647

118,788

2,651

121,439

65,614

2,611

68,225

Net cash advances on real estate loans

83,738

-

83,738

127,233

2,651

129,884

596,111

2,611

598,722

Receipts on real estate loans receivable:

Loan payoffs

157,912

60,500

218,412

275,439

27,303

302,742

121,778

-

121,778

Principal payments on loans

1,219

-

1,219

6,867

-

6,867

33,340

-

33,340

Sub-total

159,131

60,500

219,631

282,306

27,303

309,609

155,118

-

155,118

Less: Non-cash activity

(1)

(63,108)

(60,500)

(123,608)

(45,044)

(15,013)

(60,057)

(23,288)

-

(23,288)

Net cash receipts on real estate loans

96,023

-

96,023

237,262

12,290

249,552

131,830

-

131,830

Net cash advances (receipts) on real estate loans

(12,285)

-

(12,285)

(110,029)

(9,639)

(119,668)

464,281

2,611

466,892

Change in balance due to foreign currency translation

9,136

-

9,136

(14,086)

-

(14,086)

(4,281)

-

(4,281)

Loan impairments

(2)

-

-

-

-

(3,053)

(3,053)

-

-

-

Net change in real estate loans receivable

$

(66,257)

$

(60,500)

$

(126,757)

$

(169,159)

$

(27,705)

$

(196,864)

$

436,712

$

2,611

$

439,323

(1) Primarily represents aquisitions of assets previously
  financed as a real estate loans.  Please see Note 3 for additional
  information.

(2) Represents a direct write down of an impaired loan
  receivable.

In
2016, we restructured two existing real estate loans in the triple-net segment
to Genesis.  The two existing loans, with a combined principal balance of
$317,000,000, were scheduled to mature in 2017 and 2018.  These loans were
restructured into four separate loans effective October 1, 2016.  Each loan had
a five year term, a 10% interest rate and 25 basis point annual escalator.  We
recorded a loan loss charge in the amount of $6,935,000 on one of the loans as
the present value of expected future cash flows was less than the carrying
value of the loan.

During 2017, we recorded a provision for loan loss of $62,966,000
relating to three real estate loans receivable to Genesis.  The allowance
for losses on loans receivable for these three loans totals $68,372,000 and is
deemed to be sufficient to absorb expected losses relating to the loans.  Such
allowance was based on an estimation of expected future cash flows discounted
at the effective interest rate for each loan. Please see Note 21 for additional
information.

The following is a summary of the
allowance for losses on loans receivable for the periods presented (in
thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Balance at beginning of  year

$

6,563

$

-

$

-

Provision for loan losses

(1)

62,966

6,935

-

Change in present value

(1,157)

(372)

-

Balance at end of  year

$

68,372

$

6,563

$

-

(1) Excludes direct write down of an impaired loan receivable in
  2016.

WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following is a summary of our loan impairments (in
thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Balance of impaired loans at end of  year

$

282,882

$

377,549

$

-

Allowance for loan losses

68,372

6,563

-

Balance of impaired loans not reserved

$

214,510

$

370,986

$

-

Average impaired loans for the year

$

330,216

$

188,775

$

10,500

Interest recognized on impaired loans

(1)

27,793

8,707

-

(1) Represents cash interest recognized in the period since
  loans were identified as impaired.

7. Investments in
Unconsolidated Entities

We participate in a number of joint
ventures, which generally invest in seniors housing and health care real
estate.  The results of operations for these properties have been included in
our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition by the
joint ventures and are reflected in our consolidated statements of comprehensive
income as income or loss from unconsolidated entities.  The following is a
summary of our investments in unconsolidated entities (dollars in thousands):

Percentage Ownership

(1)

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

Triple-net

10% to 49%

$

22,856

$

27,005

Seniors housing operating

10% to 50%

352,430

407,172

Outpatient medical

43%

70,299

22,961

Total

$

445,585

$

457,138

(1) Excludes ownership of in substance real estate.

During the
year ended December 31, 2017, we increased our ownership in Sunrise Senior
Living Management, Inc. (“Sunrise”) from 24% to 34%.  Sunrise provides
comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to
certain of our seniors housing operating properties that Sunrise operates, for
which we pay annual management fees pursuant to long-term management
agreements.  Our management agreements with Sunrise have initial terms expiring
through December 2032 plus, if applicable, optional renewal periods ranging
from an additional 5 to 15 years depending on the property.  The management
fees payable to Sunrise under the management agreements include a fee based on
a percentage of revenues generated by the applicable properties plus, if
applicable, positive or negative adjustments based on specified performance
targets.  For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recognized
fees to Sunrise of $37,573,000, $37,751,000, and $36,403,000, respectively, the
majority of which are reflected within property operating expenses in our
consolidated statements of comprehensive income.

At December
31, 2017, the aggregate unamortized basis difference of our joint venture
investments of $110,063,000 is primarily attributable to the difference between
the amount for which we purchased our interest in the entity, including
transaction costs, and the historical carrying value of the net assets of the
entity.  This difference is being amortized over the remaining useful life of
the related assets and included in the reported amount of income from
unconsolidated entities.

Summary combined financial information
for our investments in unconsolidated entities held for the periods presented
is as follows (in thousands):

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

Net real estate investments

$

2,955,527

$

2,595,107

Other assets

2,582,943

2,298,503

Total assets

5,538,470

4,893,610

Total liabilities

4,037,145

3,588,007

Total equity

$

1,501,325

$

1,305,603

Year Ended December 31,




Total revenues

$

2,074,139

$

1,867,464

$

2,947,993

Net income (loss)

(264,473)

(86,167)

(40,116)

8. Credit
Concentration


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

We use consolidated net operating income
(“NOI”) as our credit concentration metric.  See Note 17 for additional
information and reconciliation.  The following table summarizes certain
information about our credit concentration for the year ended December 31,
2017, excluding our share of NOI in unconsolidated entities (dollars in
thousands):

Number of

Total

Percent of

Concentration by relationship:

(1)

Properties

NOI

NOI

(2)

Sunrise Senior Living

(3)


$

315,409

14%

Genesis HealthCare


190,506

9%

Revera

(3)


156,698

7%

Brookdale Senior Living


151,026

7%

Benchmark Senior Living


97,779

4%

Remaining portfolio


1,321,298

59%

Totals

1,286

$

2,232,716

100%

(1) Genesis HealthCare is in our triple-net segment. Sunrise
  Senior Living and Revera are in our seniors housing operating segment. 
  Brookdale Senior Living and Benchmark Senior Living are in both our
  triple-net and seniors housing operating segments.

(2) NOI with our top five relationships comprised 45% of total
  NOI for the year ending December 31, 2016.

(3) Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise Senior Living.
  For the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized $1,032,562,000 of revenue
  from properties managed by Sunrise Senior Living.

9. Borrowings
Under Credit Facilities and Related Items

At
December 31, 2017, we had a primary unsecured credit facility with a consortium
of 29 banks that includes

a $3,000,000,000
unsecured revolving credit facility, a $500,000,000 unsecured term credit
facility, and a $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit
facility.  We have an option, through an accordion feature, to upsize the
unsecured revolving credit facility and the $500,000,000 unsecured term credit
facility by up to an additional $1,000,000,000, in the aggregate, and the
$250,000,000 Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility by up to an
additional $250,000,000.  The primary unsecured credit facility also allows us
to borrow up to $1,000,000,000 in alternate currencies

(none outstanding
at December 31, 2017).  Borrowings under the unsecured revolving credit
facility are subject to interest payable at the applicable margin over LIBOR
interest rate (2.46% at December 31, 2017).  The applicable margin is based on
certain of our debt ratings and was 0.90% at December 31, 2017.  In addition,
we pay a facility fee quarterly to each bank based on the bank’s commitment
amount.  The facility fee depends on certain of our debt ratings and was 0.15%
at December 31, 2017.

The term credit
facilities mature on May 13, 2021. The revolving credit facility is scheduled
to mature on May 13, 2020 and can be extended for two successive terms of six
months each at our option.

The following information relates to
aggregate borrowings under the primary unsecured revolving credit facility for
the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Balance outstanding at year end

(1)

$

719,000

$

645,000

$

835,000

Maximum amount outstanding at any month end

$

1,010,000

$

1,560,000

$

835,000

Average amount outstanding (total of daily

principal balances divided by days in period)

$

597,422

$

762,896

$

452,644

Weighted-average interest rate (actual interest

expense divided by average borrowings outstanding)

2.02%

1.39%

1.17%

(1) As of December 31, 2017, letters of credit in the aggregate
  amount of $22,365,000 have been issued, which reduce the available borrowing
  capacity on our primary unsecured revolving credit facility.

10. Senior
Unsecured Notes and Secured Debt

We may
repurchase, redeem or refinance senior unsecured notes from time to time,
taking advantage of favorable market conditions when available. We may purchase
senior notes for cash through open market purchases, privately negotiated
transactions, a tender offer or, in some cases, through the early redemption of
such securities pursuant to their terms.   The senior unsecured notes are
redeemable at our option, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at
a redemption price equal to the sum of (1) the principal amount of the notes
(or portion of such notes) being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest
thereon up to the redemption date and (2) any “make-whole” amount due under the
terms of the notes in connection with early redemptions.   Redemptions and
repurchases of debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our
liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors.

At December 31, 2017, the annual principal payments due on these
debt obligations were as follows (in thousands):


Senior

Secured

Unsecured Notes

(1,2)

Debt

(1,3)

Totals


$

450,000

$

396,588

$

846,588


600,000

522,458

1,122,458


697,174

184,726

881,900


(4)

1,149,728

221,784

1,371,512


(5,6)

600,000

234,850

834,850

Thereafter

(7,8,9,10)

4,920,545

1,058,002

5,978,547

Totals

$

8,417,447

$

2,618,408

$

11,035,855

(1) Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not include
  unamortized premiums/discounts, debt issuance costs, or other fair value
  adjustments as reflected on the consolidated balance sheet.

(2) Annual interest rates range from 2.1% to 6.5%.

(3) Annual interest rates range from 1.69% to 7.98%.  Carrying
  value of the properties securing the debt totaled $5,475,672,000 at December
  31, 2017.

(4) In November 2015, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries issued
  and we guaranteed $300,000,000 of Canadian-denominated 3.35% senior unsecured
  notes due 2020 (approximately $239,674,000 based on the Canadian/U.S. Dollar
  exchange rate on December 31, 2017).

(5) On May 13, 2016, we refinanced the funding on a $250,000,000
  Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility (approximately
  $199,728,000 based on the Canadian/U.S. Dollar exchange rate on December 31,
  2017).  The loan matures on May 13, 2021 and bears interest at the Canadian
  Dealer Offered Rate plus 95 basis points (2.28% at December 31, 2017).

(6) On May 13, 2016, we refinanced the funding on a $500,000,000
  unsecured term credit facility.  The loan matures on May 13, 2021 and bears
  interest at LIBOR plus 95 basis points (2.41% at December 31, 2017).

(7)  On November 20, 2013, we completed the sale of £550,000,000
  (approximately $744,095,000 based on the Pounds Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange
  rate in effect on December 31, 2017) of 4.8% senior unsecured notes due 2028.

(8)  On November 25, 2014, we completed the sale of £500,000,000
  (approximately $676,450,000 based on the Pounds Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange
  rate in effect on December 31, 2017) of 4.5% senior unsecured notes due 2034.

(9)  In May 2015, we issued $750,000,000 of 4.0% senior
  unsecured notes due 2025.  In October 2015, we issued an additional
  $500,000,000 of these notes under a re-opening of the offer.

(10) In March 2016, we issued $700,000,000 of 4.25% senior
  unsecured notes due 2026.

The following is a summary of our senior unsecured note principal activity during
the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year Ended

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

December 31, 2015

Weighted Avg.

Weighted Avg.

Weighted Avg.

Amount

Interest Rate

Amount

Interest Rate

Amount

Interest Rate

Beginning balance

$

8,260,038

4.245%

$

8,645,758

4.237%

$

7,817,154

4.385%

Debt issued

7,500

1.973%

705,000

4.228%

1,475,540

3.901%

Debt assumed

-

0.000%

-

0.000%

24,621

6.000%

Debt extinguished

(5,000)

1.830%

(850,000)

4.194%

(300,000)

6.200%

Debt redeemed

-

0.000%

-

0.000%

(240,249)

3.303%

Foreign currency

154,909

4.288%

(240,720)

4.565%

(131,308)

3.966%

Ending balance

$

8,417,447

4.306%

$

8,260,038

4.245%

$

8,645,758

4.237%

The following is a
summary of our secured debt principal activity for the periods presented
(dollars in thousands):

Year Ended

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

December 31, 2015

Weighted Avg.

Weighted Avg.

Weighted Avg.

Amount

Interest Rate

Amount

Interest Rate

Amount

Interest Rate

Beginning balance

$

3,465,066

4.094%

$

3,478,207

4.440%

$

2,941,765

4.940%

Debt issued

241,772

2.822%

460,015

2.646%

228,685

2.776%

Debt assumed

23,094

6.670%

60,898

4.301%

1,007,482

3.334%

Debt extinguished

(1,080,268)

5.247%

(489,293)

5.105%

(506,326)

4.506%

Principal payments

(64,078)

4.340%

(74,466)

4.663%

(67,064)

4.801%

Debt deconsolidated

(60,000)

3.799%

-

0.000%

-

0.000%

Foreign currency

92,822

3.164%

29,705

3.670%

(126,335)

3.834%

Ending balance

$

2,618,408

3.761%

$

3,465,066

4.094%

$

3,478,207

4.440%

Our debt agreements
contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain
agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net
worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create
liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2017, we believe
we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

11.
Derivative Instruments

We
are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising from
adverse changes in interest rates. We may elect to use financial derivative
instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are principally
based on our policy to manage the general trend in interest rates at the
applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest
rates.  In addition, non-U.S. investments expose us to the potential losses
associated with adverse changes in foreign currency to U.S. Dollar exchange
rates.  We have elected to manage these risks through the use of forward exchange
contracts and issuing debt in foreign currencies.

I

nterest
Rate Swap Contracts and Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Cash
Flow Hedges

For instruments that are designated as and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the
effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a
component of other comprehensive income (“OCI”), and reclassified into earnings
in the same period, or periods, during which the hedged transaction affects
earnings.  Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge
ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of
effectiveness are recognized in earnings.  Approximately $914,000 of gains, which
are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”), are expected
to be reclassified into earnings in the next 12 months.

Foreign
Currency Hedges

For instruments that are designated and qualify as net investment hedges, the
variability in the foreign currency to U.S. dollar of the instrument is
recorded as a cumulative translation adjustment component of OCI.  During the
years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we settled certain net investment
hedges generating cash proceeds of $52,719,000 and $108,347,000, respectively. 
The balance of the cumulative translation adjustment will be reclassified to
earnings when the hedged investment is sold or substantially liquidated.

The following presents the notional
amount of derivatives and other financial instruments as of the dates indicated
(in thousands):

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

Derivatives designated as net investment hedges:

Denominated in Canadian Dollars

$

575,000

$

900,000

Denominated in Pounds Sterling

£

550,000

£

550,000

Financial instruments designated as net investment hedges:

Denominated in Canadian Dollars

$

250,000

$

250,000

Denominated in Pounds Sterling

£

1,050,000

£

1,050,000

Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges:

Denominated in U.S. Dollars

$

-

$

57,000

Denominated in Canadian Dollars

$

36,000

$

54,000

Denominated in Pounds Sterling

£

-

£

48,000

Derivative instruments not designated:

Denominated in U.S. Dollars

$

408,007

$

-

Denominated in Canadian Dollars

$

80,000

$

37,000

The following presents
the impact of derivative instruments on the consolidated statements of
comprehensive income for the periods presented (in thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year Ended

Location

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

December 31, 2015

Gain (loss) on forward exchange contracts recognized in income

Interest expense

$

(2,476)

$

8,544

$

14,474

Loss (gain) on option exercise

(1)

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

$

-

$

-

$

(58,427)

Gain on release of cumulative translation adjustment related to
  ineffectiveness on net investment hedge

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

$

-

$

(2,516)

$

-

Gain (loss) on forward exchange contracts and term loans
  designated as net investment hedge recognized in OCI

OCI

$

(252,168)

$

357,021

$

298,116

(1) In April 2011, we completed the acquisition of substantially
  all of the real estate assets of privately-owned Genesis.  In conjunction
  with this transaction, we received the option to acquire an ownership
  interest in Genesis.  In February 2015, Genesis closed on a transaction to
  merge with Skilled Healthcare Group to become a publicly traded company which
  required us to record the value of the derivative asset due to the net
  settlement feature.

12. Commitments and Contingencies

At
December 31, 2017, we had fourteen outstanding letter of credit obligations
totaling $159,151,000 and expiring between 2018 and 2024.  At December 31,
2017, we had outstanding construction in process of $237,746,000 for leased
properties and were committed to providing additional funds of approximately
$429,815,000 to complete construction. At December 31, 2017, we had contingent
purchase obligations totaling $11,832,000. These contingent purchase
obligations relate to unfunded capital improvement obligations and contingent
obligations on acquisitions. Rents due from the tenant are increased to reflect
the additional investment in the property. In December 2017, we finalized an
agreement with the University of Toledo Foundation to transfer our corporate
headquarters as a gift and recognized an expense of $40,730,000.

We
evaluate our leases for operating versus capital lease treatment in accordance
with ASC Topic 840 “Leases.”  A lease is classified as a capital lease if
it provides for transfer of ownership of the leased asset at the end of the
lease term, contains a bargain purchase option, has a lease term greater than
75% of the economic life of the leased asset, or if the net present value of
the future minimum lease payments are in excess of 90% of the fair value of the
leased asset. Certain leases contain bargain purchase options and have been
classified as capital leases.  At December 31, 2017, we had operating lease
obligations of $1,125,098,000 relating to certain ground leases and Company
office space. Regarding the ground leases, we have sublease agreements with
certain of our operators that require the operators to reimburse us for our
monthly operating lease obligations. At December 31, 2017, aggregate future
minimum rentals to be received under these noncancelable subleases totaled
$77,385,000.

At December 31, 2017, future minimum
lease payments due under operating and capital leases are as follows (in
thousands):

Operating Leases

Capital Leases

(1)


$

17,871

$

4,678


18,070

4,334


17,605

4,173


17,419

4,173


16,765

4,173

Thereafter

1,037,368

67,573

Totals

$

1,125,098

$

89,104

(1) Amounts above represent principal and interest obligations
  under capital lease arrangements.  Related assets with a gross value of
  $167,324,000 and accumulated depreciation of $29,303,000 are recorded in real
  property.

13. Stockholders’ Equity

The following is a summary of our
stockholder’s equity capital accounts as of the dates indicated:


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value:

Authorized shares

50,000,000

50,000,000

Issued shares

14,375,000

25,875,000

Outstanding shares

14,370,060

25,875,000

Common Stock, $1.00 par value:

Authorized shares

700,000,000

700,000,000

Issued shares

372,852,311

363,576,924

Outstanding shares

371,731,551

362,602,173

Preferred Stock.

The following
is a summary of our preferred stock activity during the periods presented:

Year Ended

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

December 31, 2015

Weighted Avg.

Weighted Avg.

Weighted Avg.

Shares

Dividend Rate

Shares

Dividend Rate

Shares

Dividend Rate

Beginning balance

25,875,000

6.500%

25,875,000

6.500%

25,875,000

6.500%

Shares redeemed

(11,500,000)

6.500%

-

0.000%

-

0.000%

Shares converted

(4,940)

6.500%

-

0.000%

-

0.000%

Ending balance

14,370,060

6.500%

25,875,000

6.500%

25,875,000

6.500%

During
the three months ended March 31, 2011, we issued 14,375,000 of 6.50% Series I
Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock.  These shares have a
liquidation value of $50.00 per share.  Dividends are payable quarterly in
arrears.  The preferred stock is not redeemable by us.  The preferred shares
are convertible, at the holder’s option, into 0.8460 shares of common stock
(equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $59.10).  During the
year ended December 31, 2017, 4,940 shares of Series I preferred stock were
converted into common stock.

During the three months ended March
31, 2012, we issued 11,500,000 of 6.50% Series J Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock.  During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized a
charge of $9,769,000 in connection with the redemption of the Series J
preferred stock.

Common
Stock

. The following is a summary of our common stock activity during the
periods indicated (dollars in thousands, except average price amounts):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Shares Issued

Average Price

Gross Proceeds

Net Proceeds

February 2015 public issuance

19,550,000

$

75.50

$

1,476,025

$

1,423,935

2015 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

4,024,169

67.72

272,531

272,531

2015 Option exercises

249,054

47.35

11,793

11,793

2015 Equity Shelf Program issuances

696,070

69.23

48,186

47,463

2015 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures

137,837

-

-

2015 Senior note conversions

1,330,474

-

-

2015 Totals

25,987,604

$

1,808,535

$

1,755,722

2016 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

4,145,457

$

70.34

$

291,852

$

291,571

2016 Option exercises

141,405

47.13

6,664

6,664

2016 Equity Shelf Program issuances

3,134,901

75.27

238,286

235,959

2016 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures

402,740

-

-

2016 Totals

7,824,503

$

536,802

$

534,194

2017 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

5,640,008

$

69.97

$

395,526

$

394,639

2017 Option exercises

252,979

51.16

12,942

12,942

2017 Equity Shelf Program issuances

2,986,574

71.79

215,917

214,406

2017 Preferred stock conversions

4,300

-

-

2017 Redemption of equity membership units

91,180

-

-

2017 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures

154,337

-

-

2017 Totals

9,129,378

$

624,385

$

621,987

Dividends

. 
The increase in dividends is primarily attributable to increases in our common
shares outstanding, offset by the redemption of the Series J preferred stock,
as described above.  Please refer to Note 18 for information related to federal
income tax of dividends.  The following is a summary of our dividend payments
(in thousands, except per share amounts):

Year Ended

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

December 31, 2015

Per Share

Amount

Per Share

Amount

Per Share

Amount

Common Stock

$

3.4800

$

1,277,321

$

3.4400

$

1,233,519

$

3.3000

$

1,144,727

Series I Preferred Stock

3.2500

46,711

3.2500

46,719

3.2500

46,719

Series J Preferred Stock

0.2347

2,699

1.6251

18,687

1.6251

18,687

Totals

$

1,326,731

$

1,298,925

$

1,210,133

Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income

.

The following is a
summary of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) for the periods
presented (in thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Unrecognized gains (losses)
  related to:

Foreign Currency
  Translation

Equity Investments

Actuarial losses

Cash Flow Hedges

Total

Balance at December 31, 2016

$

(173,496)

$

5,120

$

(1,153)

$

(2)

$

(169,531)

Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassification
  adjustments

62,915

-



63,186

Reclassification adjustment for write down of equity investment

-

(5,120)

-

-

(5,120)

Net current-period other comprehensive income (loss)

62,915

(5,120)



58,066

Balance at December 31, 2017

$

(110,581)

$

-

$

(884)

$

-

$

(111,465)

Balance at December 31, 2015

$

(85,484)

$

-

$

(1,343)

$

(1,416)

$

(88,243)

Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassification
  adjustments

(90,528)

5,120


1,414

(83,804)

Reclassification amount to net income

2,516

-

-

-

2,516

Net current-period other comprehensive income (loss)

(88,012)

5,120


1,414

(81,288)

Balance at December 31, 2016

$

(173,496)

$

5,120

$

(1,153)

$

(2)

$

(169,531)

Other
Equity

.  Other equity consists of accumulated option compensation expense,
which represents the amount of amortized compensation costs related to stock
options awarded to employees and directors.

14. Stock
Incentive Plans

In May 2016, our
shareholders approved the 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (“2016 Plan”), which
authorizes up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock to be issued at the
discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

Awards granted after May 5, 2016 are
issued out of the 2016 Plan.

The awards granted under
the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan continue to vest and
options expire ten years from the date of grant.  Our non-employee directors,
officers and key employees are eligible to participate in the 2016 Plan. The
2016 Plan allows for the issuance of, among other things, stock options, stock
appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock units, and dividend
equivalent rights. Vesting periods for options, deferred stock units, and
restricted shares generally range from three to five years.

Under our long-term
incentive plan, certain restricted stock awards are market and performance
based.  We will grant a target number of restricted stock units, with the
ultimate award determined by the total shareholder return and operating
performance metrics, measured in each case over a measurement period of two to three
years.

Awards vest over two to
three years after the end of the performance period with a portion vesting
immediately at the end of the performance periods.

The expected term
represents the period from the grant date to the end of the performance
period.  Compensation expense for these performance grants is measured based on
the probability of achievement of certain performance goals and is recognized
over both the performance period and vesting period.  For the portion of the
grant for which the award is determined by the operating performance metrics,
the compensation cost is based on the grant date closing price and management’s
estimate of corporate achievement of the financial metrics.  If the estimated
number of performance based restricted stock to be earned changes, an
adjustment will be recorded to recognize the accumulated difference between the
revised and previous estimates.  For the portion of the grant determined by the
total shareholder return, management used a

Monte Carlo model

to assess the fair value
and compensation cost.

The following table summarizes
compensation expense (a component of general and administrative expenses)
recognized for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Stock options

$


$


$


Restricted stock

19,092

28,603

30,146

$

19,102

$

28,869

$

30,844

Stock Options

We
have not granted stock options since the year ended December 31, 2012 but some
remain outstanding.  As of December 31, 2016, there was no unrecognized
compensation expense related to unvested stock options.  Stock options
outstanding at December 31, 2017 have an aggregate intrinsic value of
$1,346,000.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Restricted Stock

The fair value of the restricted stock is
equal to the market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant
and is amortized over the vesting periods.

As of December 31, 2017, there was $31,709,000 of total
unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested restricted stock that is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of three years.  The
following table summarizes information about non-vested restricted stock
incentive awards as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017:

Restricted Stock

Number of

Weighted-Average

Shares

Grant Date

(000's)

Fair Value

Non-vested at December 31, 2016


$

58.98

Vested

(477)

63.15

Granted


69.78

Terminated

(59)

63.20

Non-vested at December 31, 2017


$

61.00

15. Earnings Per
Share

The
following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per
share (in thousands, except per share data):

Year Ended December 31,




Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per share -

net income attributable to common stockholders

$

463,595

$

1,012,397

$

818,344

Denominator for basic earnings per

share: weighted-average shares

367,237

358,275

348,240

Effect of dilutive securities:

Employee stock options




Non-vested restricted shares




Redeemable shares

1,235

1,393


Convertible senior unsecured notes

-

-


Dilutive potential common shares

1,764

1,952

1,184

Denominator for diluted earnings per

share: adjusted-weighted average shares

369,001

360,227

349,424

Basic earnings per share

$

1.26

$

2.83

$

2.35

Diluted earnings per share

$

1.26

$

2.81

$

2.34

Stock options outstanding were anti-dilutive for the years
ended

December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.  The Series I
Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock were excluded from the
calculations as the effect of the conversions also were anti-dilutive.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

16.
Disclosure about Fair Value of Financial Instruments

U.S. GAAP
provides authoritative guidance for measuring and disclosing fair value
measurements of assets and liabilities.  The guidance defines fair value as the
exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a
liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the
asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the
measurement date.  The guidance also establishes a fair value hierarchy which
requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the
use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.  The guidance describes
three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:

·

Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical
assets or liabilities.

·

Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices
such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in
markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be
corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the
assets or liabilities.

·

Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by
little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the
assets or liabilities.

The following
methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of
financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value.

Mortgage Loans and
Other Real Estate Loans Receivable

— The carrying value
of mortgage loans and other real estate loans receivable is net of related
reserves.  The fair value is generally estimated by using Level 2 and Level 3
inputs such as discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current
rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit
ratings and for the same remaining maturities.

Cash and Cash
Equivalents and Restricted Cash

— The carrying
amount approximates fair value.

Available-for-sale
Equity Investments

— Available-for-sale equity investments are recorded at
their fair value based on Level 1 publicly available trading prices.

Borrowings Under
Primary Unsecured Credit Facility

— The carrying
amount of the primary unsecured credit facility approximates fair value because
the borrowings are interest rate adjustable.

Senior Unsecured
Notes

— The fair value of the senior unsecured notes payable
was estimated based on Level 1 publicly available trading prices.  The carrying
amount of the variable rate senior unsecured notes approximates fair value
because they are interest rate adjustable.

Secured Debt

— The fair value of fixed rate secured debt is estimated using Level 2
inputs by discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates
at which similar loans would be made with similar credit ratings and for the
same remaining maturities.  The carrying amount of variable rate secured debt
approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable.

Foreign Currency
Forward Contracts

— Foreign currency forward contracts are recorded in
other assets or other liabilities on the balance sheet at fair market value. 
Fair market value is determined using Level 2 inputs by estimating the future
value of the currency pair based on existing exchange rates, comprised of
current spot and traded forward points, and calculating a present value of the
net amount using a discount factor based on observable traded interest rates.

Redeemable OP
Unitholder Interests

— Our redeemable OP unitholder interests are recorded on
the balance sheet at fair value using Level 2 inputs.  The fair value is
measured using the closing price of our common stock, as units may be redeemed
at the election of the holder for cash or, at our option, one share of our
common stock per unit, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.

The carrying
amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments are as follows as
of the dates presented (in thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

Carrying

Fair

Carrying

Fair

Amount

Value

Amount

Value

Financial Assets:

Mortgage loans receivable

$

306,120

$

332,508

$

485,735

$

521,773

Other real estate loans receivable

121,379

125,480

136,893

138,050

Available-for-sale equity investments

7,269

7,269

27,899

27,899

Cash and cash equivalents

243,777

243,777

419,378

419,378

Restricted cash

65,526

65,526

187,842

187,842

Foreign currency forward contracts

15,604

15,604

135,561

135,561

Financial Liabilities:

Borrowings under unsecured lines of credit arrangements

$

719,000

$

719,000

$

645,000

$

645,000

Senior unsecured notes

8,331,722

9,168,432

8,161,619

8,879,176

Secured debt

2,608,976

2,641,997

3,477,699

3,558,378

Foreign currency forward contracts

38,654

38,654

4,342

4,342

Redeemable OP unitholder interests

$

97,476

$

97,476

$

110,502

$

110,502

Items
Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis

The market approach is utilized to measure fair value
for our financial assets and liabilities reported at fair value on a recurring
basis.  The market approach uses prices and other relevant information
generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or
liabilities.  The following summarizes items measured at fair value on a
recurring basis (in thousands):

Fair Value Measurements as
  of December 31, 2017

Total

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Available-for-sale equity investments

(1)

$

7,269

$

7,269

$

-

$

-

Foreign currency forward contracts, net

(2)

(23,050)

-

(23,050)

-

Redeemable OP unitholder interests

97,476

-

97,476

-

Totals

$

81,695

$

7,269

$

74,426

$

-

(1) Unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale equity
  investments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) at
  each measurement date. During the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2015, we
  recognized other than temporary impairment charges of $18,294,000 and
  $35,648,000, respectively, on the Genesis HealthCare stock investment.  Also,
  see Note 11 for details related to the gain on the derivative asset originally
  recognized.

(2) Please see Note 11 for additional information.

Items Measured at Fair Value
on a Nonrecurring Basis

In addition to items that
are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, we also have assets and
liabilities in our balance sheet that are measured at fair value on a
nonrecurring basis.  Assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests that are
measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include those acquired/assumed
in asset acquisitions and business combinations (see Note 3), and asset
impairments (see Note 5 for impairments of real property and Note 6 for
impairments of loans receivable). We have determined that the fair value
measurements included in each of these assets and liabilities rely primarily on
company-specific inputs and our assumptions about the use of the assets and
settlement of liabilities as observable inputs are not available. As such, we
have determined that each of these fair value measurements generally reside
within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. We estimate the fair value of
real estate and related intangibles using the income approach and unobservable
data such as net operating income and estimated capitalization and discount
rates.  We also consider local and national industry market data including
comparable sales, and commonly engage an external real estate appraiser to
assist us in our estimation of fair value.  We estimate the fair value of
assets held for sale based on current sales price expectations or, in the
absence of such price expectations, Level 3 inputs described above.  We
estimate the fair value of loans receivable using projected payoff valuations
based on the expected future cash flows and/or the estimated fair value of the
underlying collateral.  We may base our valuation on a loan’s observable market
price, if any, or the fair value of collateral, net of sales costs, if the
repayment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the collateral.  We
estimate the fair value of secured debt assumed in business combinations and
asset acquisitions using current interest rates at which similar borrowings
could be obtained on the transaction date.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

17. Segment Reporting

We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate. We
evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our three operating
segments: triple-net, seniors housing operating and outpatient medical. Our
triple-net properties include long-term/post-acute care facilities, assisted
living facilities, independent living/continuing care retirement communities,
independent support living facilities (Canada), care homes with and without nursing
(U.K.), and combinations thereof.  Under the triple-net segment, we invest in
seniors housing and health care real estate through acquisition and financing
of primarily single tenant properties.  Properties acquired are primarily
leased under triple-net leases and we are not involved in the management of the
property.  Our seniors housing operating properties include the seniors housing
communities referenced above that are owned and/or operated through RIDEA
structures (see Note 18). Our outpatient medical properties include outpatient
medical buildings which are typically leased to multiple tenants and generally
require a certain level of property management by us.

We evaluate performance
based upon consolidated net operating income (“NOI”) of each segment.  We
define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements, less property
operating expenses.  We believe NOI provides investors relevant and useful
information because it measures the operating performance of our properties at
the property level on an unleveraged basis.  We use NOI to make decisions about
resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our
properties.

Non-segment revenue
consists mainly of interest income on certain non-real estate investments and
other income. Non-segment assets consist of corporate assets including cash,
deferred loan expenses and corporate offices and equipment among others.
Non-property specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual
segments in determining NOI

.

The accounting policies
of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant
accounting policies (see Note 2). The results of operations for all
acquisitions described in Note 3 are included in our consolidated results of
operations from the acquisition dates and are components of the appropriate
segments.  There are no intersegment sales or transfers.

Summary information for the reportable
segments (which excludes unconsolidated entities) during the years ended
December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 is as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31, 2017:

Triple-net

Seniors Housing Operating

Outpatient Medical

Non-segment / Corporate

Total

Rental income

$

885,811

$

-

$

560,060

$

-

$

1,445,871

Resident fees and services

-

2,779,423

-

-

2,779,423

Interest income

73,742


-

-

73,811

Other income

7,531

5,127

3,340

1,538

17,536

Total revenues

967,084

2,784,619

563,400

1,538

4,316,641

Property operating expenses

-

1,904,593

179,332

-

2,083,925

Consolidated net operating income

967,084

880,026

384,068

1,538

2,232,716

Interest expense

15,194

63,265

10,015

396,148

484,622

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

2,284

-

-

-

2,284

Depreciation and amortization

243,830

484,796

193,094

-

921,720

General and administrative

-

-

-

122,008

122,008

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

29,083

3,785

4,373

-

37,241

Provision for loan losses

62,966

-

-

-

62,966

Impairment of assets

96,909

21,949

5,625

-

124,483

Other expenses

116,689

(1)

8,347

1,911

50,829

(2)

177,776

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and
  income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

400,129

297,884

169,050

(567,447)

299,616

Income tax benefit (expense)

(4,291)

(16,430)

(1,477)

2,070

(20,128)

(Loss) income from unconsolidated entities

19,428

(105,236)

2,683

-

(83,125)

Income (loss) from continuing operations

415,266

176,218

170,256

(565,377)

196,363

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

286,325

56,295

1,630

-

344,250

Net income (loss)

$

701,591

$

232,513

$

171,886

$

(565,377)

$

540,613

Total assets

$

9,325,344

$

13,432,001

$

5,082,145

$

104,955

$

27,944,445

(1) Primarily represents non-capitalizable transaction costs,
  including $88,316,000 due to a joint venture transaction with an existing
  seniors housing operator which converted a portfolio of properties from
  triple-net to seniors housing operating, an exchange of PropCo/OpCo
  interests, and termination/restructuring of pre-existing relationships. In
  addition, includes $18,294,000 other than temporary impairment charge on the
  Genesis available-for-sale equity investment (see also Notes 11 and 16).

(2) Primarily related to $40,730,000 recognized for the donation
  of the corporate headquarters. See also Note 12.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year Ended
  December 31, 2016:

Triple-net

Seniors Housing Operating

Outpatient Medical

Non-segment / Corporate

Total

Rental income

$

1,112,325

$

-

$

536,490

$

-

$

1,648,815

Resident fees and services

-

2,504,731

-

-

2,504,731

Interest income

90,476

4,180

3,307

-

97,963

Other income

6,059

17,085

5,568


29,651

Total revenues

1,208,860

2,525,996

545,365


4,281,160

Property operating expenses

-

1,711,882

165,101

-

1,876,983

Consolidated net operating income

1,208,860

814,114

380,264


2,404,177

Interest expense

21,370

81,853

19,087

399,035

521,345

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net


-

-

(2,516)

(2,448)

Depreciation and amortization

297,197

415,429

188,616

-

901,242

General and administrative

-

-

-

155,241

155,241

Transaction costs

10,016

29,207

3,687

-

42,910

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net


(88)

-

16,439

17,214

Provision for loan losses

6,935

-

3,280

-

10,215

Impairment of assets

20,169

12,403

4,635

-

37,207

Other expenses

-

-

-

11,998

11,998

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and
  income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

852,242

275,310

160,959

(579,258)

709,253

Income tax benefit (expense)

(1,087)

(3,762)

(511)

24,488

19,128

(Loss) income from unconsolidated entities

9,767

(20,442)


-

(10,357)

Income (loss) from continuing operations

860,922

251,106

160,766

(554,770)

718,024

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

355,394

9,880

(1,228)

-

364,046

Net income (loss)

$

1,216,316

$

260,986

$

159,538

$

(554,770)

$

1,082,070

Total assets

$

10,713,032

$

12,851,414

$

4,951,538

$

349,200

$

28,865,184

Year Ended December 31, 2015:

Triple-net

Seniors Housing Operating

Outpatient Medical

Non-segment / Corporate

Total

Rental income

$

1,094,827

$

-

$

504,121

$

-

$

1,598,948

Resident fees and services

-

2,158,031

-

-

2,158,031

Interest income

74,108

4,180

5,853

-

84,141

Other income

6,871

6,060

4,684

1,091

18,706

Total revenues

1,175,806

2,168,271

514,658

1,091

3,859,826

Property operating expenses

-

1,467,009

155,248

-

1,622,257

Consolidated net operating income

1,175,806

701,262

359,410

1,091

2,237,569

Interest expense

28,384

70,388

27,542

365,855

492,169

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

(58,427)

-

-

-

(58,427)

Depreciation and amortization

288,242

351,733

186,265

-

826,240

General and administrative

-

-

-

147,416

147,416

Transaction costs

53,195

54,966

2,765

-

110,926

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

10,095

(195)

-

24,777

34,677

Impairment of assets

2,220

-

-

-

2,220

Other expenses

35,648

-

-

10,583

46,231

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income
  taxes and income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

816,449

224,370

142,838

(547,540)

636,117

Income tax benefit (expense)

(4,244)



(3,438)

(6,451)

(Loss) income from unconsolidated entities

8,260

(32,672)

2,908

-

(21,504)

Income from continuing operations

820,465

192,684

145,991

(550,978)

608,162

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

86,261

-

194,126

-

280,387

Net income (loss)

$

906,726

$

192,684

$

340,117

$

(550,978)

$

888,549

Our
portfolio of properties and other investments are located in the U.S., the U.K.
and Canada. Revenues and assets are attributed to the country in which the
property is physically located. The following is a summary of geographic
information for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year Ended

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

December 31, 2015

Revenues:

Amount

%

Amount

%

Amount

%

United States

$

3,464,527

80.3%

$

3,453,485

80.6%

$

3,133,327

81.1%

United Kingdom

407,351

9.4%

388,383

9.1%

407,745

10.6%

Canada

444,763

10.3%

439,292

10.3%

318,754

8.3%

Total

$

4,316,641

100.0%

$

4,281,160

100.0%

$

3,859,826

100.0%

As of

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

Assets:

Amount

%

Amount

%

United States

$

22,274,443

79.7%

$

23,572,459

81.7%

United Kingdom

3,239,039

11.6%

2,782,489

9.6%

Canada

2,430,963

8.7%

2,510,236

8.7%

Total

$

27,944,445

100.0%

$

28,865,184

100.0%

18.

Income Taxes and Distributions

We
elected to be taxed as a REIT commencing with our first taxable year.  To
qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, at least 90% of taxable
income (excluding 100% of net capital gains) must be distributed to
stockholders.  REITs that do not distribute a certain amount of current year
taxable income are also subject to a 4% federal excise tax. The main
differences between net income for federal income tax purposes and consolidated
financial statement purposes are the recognition of straight-line rent for
reporting purposes, basis differences in acquisitions, recording of
impairments, differing useful lives and depreciation and amortization methods
for real property and the provision for loan losses for reporting purposes
versus bad debt expense for tax purposes.

Cash
distributions paid to common stockholders, for federal income tax purposes, are
as follows

for the periods presented:

Year Ended December 31,




Per Share:

Ordinary income

$

1.8117

$

2.5067

$

1.9134

Qualified dividend*

0.0038

0.0047

0.0529

Return of capital

0.0929

0.0573

0.0503

Long-term capital gains

1.5750

0.4593

0.9352

Unrecaptured section 1250 gains*

0.3557

0.4120

0.3482

Totals

$

3.4800

$

3.4400

$

3.3000

*Informational purposes only

Our consolidated
provision for income tax expense (benefit) is as follows for the periods
presented (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Current

$

7,633

$

14,944

$

10,177

Deferred

12,495

(34,072)

(3,726)

Totals

$

20,128

$

(19,128)

$

6,451

REITs generally are not
subject to U.S. federal income taxes on that portion of REIT taxable income or
capital gain that is distributed to stockholders.  For the tax year ended December
31, 2017, as a result of acquisitions located in Canada and the U.K., we were
subject to foreign income taxes under the respective tax laws of these
jurisdictions.

The provision for income
taxes for the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily relates to state taxes,
foreign taxes, and taxes based on income generated by entities that are
structured as TRSs.  For the tax years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015,
the foreign tax provision/(benefit) amount included in the consolidated
provision for income taxes was $4,806,000, ($3,315,000) and $7,385,000,
respectively.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A
reconciliation of income taxes, which is computed by applying the federal
corporate tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, to the
income tax expense/(benefit) is as follows for the periods presented (in
thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Tax at statutory rate on earnings from continuing
  operations before unconsolidated entities, noncontrolling interests and
  income taxes

$

199,588

$

372,030

$

313,250

Increase (decrease) in valuation allowance

(1)

30,445

(2,128)

13,759

Tax at statutory rate on earnings not subject to federal
  income taxes

(234,468)

(399,571)

(319,832)

Foreign permanent depreciation

10,065

9,205

7,500

Other differences

14,498

1,336

(8,226)

Totals

$

20,128

$

(19,128)

$

6,451

(1) Excluding purchase price accounting.

Each TRS and foreign
entity subject to income taxes is a tax paying component for purposes of
classifying deferred tax assets and liabilities. The tax effects of taxable and
deductible temporary differences, as well as tax asset/(liability) attributes,
are summarized as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Investments and property, primarily differences in
  investment basis, depreciation and amortization, the basis of land assets and
  the treatment of interests and certain costs

$

(11,812)

$

(7,089)

$

(30,564)

Operating loss and interest deduction carryforwards

94,654

82,469

75,455

Expense accruals and other

25,146

15,978

6,259

Valuation allowance

(127,283)

(96,838)

(98,966)

Net deferred tax assets (liabilities)

$

(19,295)

$

(5,480)

$

(47,816)

We assess the available
positive and negative evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income
will be generated to use the existing deferred tax assets.  We apply the
concepts on an entity-by-entity, jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis.  With
respect to the analysis of certain entities in multiple jurisdictions, a
significant piece of objective negative evidence evaluated was the cumulative
loss incurred over the three-year period ended December 31, 2017.  Such
objective evidence limits the ability to consider other subjective evidence
such as our projections for future growth.

On the basis of the
evaluations performed as required by the codification, valuation allowances
totaling $127,283,000 were recorded on U.S. taxable REIT subsidiaries as well
as entities in other jurisdictions to limit the deferred tax assets to the
amount that we believe is more likely that not realizable.  However, the amount
of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted if (i)
estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced
or increased or (ii) objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative
losses is no longer present (and additional weight may be given to subjective
evidence such as our projections for growth).  The valuation allowance
rollforward is summarized as follows for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,




Beginning balance

$

96,838

$

98,966

$

85,207

Expense (benefit)

30,445

(2,128)

13,759

Ending balance

$

127,283

$

96,838

$

98,966

As a result of certain acquisitions, we are subject to
corporate level taxes for any related asset dispositions that may occur during
the five-year period immediately after such assets were owned by a C
corporation (“built-in gains tax”). The amount of income potentially subject to
this special corporate level tax is generally equal to the lesser of (a) the
excess of the fair value of the asset over its adjusted tax basis as of the
date it became a REIT asset, or (b) the actual amount of gain. Some but not all
gains recognized during this period of time could be offset by available net
operating losses and capital loss carryforwards.  During the year ended
December 31, 2016, we acquired certain additional assets with built-in gains as
of the date of acquisition that could be subject to the built-in gains tax if
disposed of prior to the expiration of the applicable ten-year period.  We have
not recorded a deferred tax liability as a result of the potential built-in
gains tax based on our intentions with respect to such properties and available
tax planning strategies.

Under the provisions
of the REIT Investment Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 (“RIDEA”),
for taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008, the REIT may lease “qualified
health care properties” on an arm’s-length basis to a TRS if the property


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

is operated on behalf of such subsidiary by a person who
qualifies as an “eligible independent contractor.” Generally, the rent received
from the TRS will meet the related party rent exception and will be treated as
“rents from real property.” A “qualified health care property” includes real
property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to
the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate
care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility
which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients.  We have
entered into various joint ventures that were structured under RIDEA.  Resident
level rents and related operating expenses for these facilities are reported in
the consolidated financial statements and are subject to federal, state and
foreign income taxes as the operations of such facilities are included in a
TRS.  Certain net operating loss carryforwards could be utilized to offset
taxable income in future years

.

Given the applicable
statute of limitations, we generally are subject to audit by the Internal
Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the year ended December 31, 2014 and subsequent
years. The statute of limitations may vary in the states in which we own
properties or conduct business.  We do not expect to be subject to audit by
state taxing authorities for any year prior to the year ended December 31,
2011. We are also subject to audit by the Canada Revenue Agency and provincial
authorities generally for periods subsequent to May 2012 related to entities
acquired or formed in connection with acquisitions, and by the U.K.’s HM
Revenue & Customs for periods subsequent to August 2012 related to entities
acquired or formed in connection with acquisitions.

At December 31, 2017,
we had a net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforward related to the REIT

of $448,475,000

. Due to our uncertainty regarding
the realization of certain deferred tax assets, we have not recorded a deferred
tax asset related to NOLs generated by the REIT.  These amounts can be used to
offset future taxable income (and/or taxable income for prior years if an audit
determines that tax is owed), if any. The REIT will be entitled to utilize NOLs
and tax credit carryforwards only to the extent that REIT taxable income
exceeds our deduction for dividends paid.  The NOL carryforwards generated
through December 31, 2017 will expire through 2036.

Beginning with tax years after
December 31, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”) eliminates the carryback
period, limits the NOLs to 80% of taxable income and replaces the 20-year
carryforward period with an indefinite carryforward period.

At December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had an NOL carryforward
related to Canadian entities of $134,552,000, and $104,988,000, respectively.

These Canadian losses have a 20-year
carryforward period

.  At December 31, 2017 and
2016, we had an NOL carryforward related to U.K. entities of $183,712,000 and
$158,156,000, respectively.

These U.K. losses do not have a finite
carryforward period.

We did not identify items for
which the income tax effects of the Tax Act have not been completed and a
reasonable estimate could not be determined as of December 31, 2017.  Our
analysis of the Tax Act may be impacted by any corrective legislation and any
guidance provided by the U.S. Treasury, the IRS or by the General Explanation
of the Tax Act, which is under preparation by the Staff of the Congressional
Joint Committee on Taxation.  Based on the Tax Act as enacted, we do not
believe there will be further material impacts to the consolidated financial
statements related to the other Tax Act provisions but cannot assure you as to
the outcome of this matter.


WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

19. Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)

The
following is a summary of our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the
years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands, except per share
data). The sum of individual quarterly amounts may not agree to the annual
amounts included in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income due to
rounding.

Year Ended December 31, 2017

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

(1)

Revenues

$

1,062,298

$

1,058,602

$

1,091,483

$

1,104,257

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

312,639

188,429

74,043

(111,523)

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per
  share:

Basic

$

0.86

$

0.51

$

0.20

$

(0.31)

Diluted

$

0.86

$

0.51

$

0.20

$

(0.31)

Year Ended December 31, 2016

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

(2)

4th Quarter

Revenues

$

1,047,050

$

1,076,657

$

1,079,133

$

1,078,321

Net income attributable to common stockholders

148,969

195,474

334,910

333,044

Net income attributable to common stockholders per share:

Basic

$

0.42

$

0.55

$

0.93

$

0.92

Diluted

$

0.42

$

0.54

$

0.93

$

0.91

(1) The decrease in net income (loss) and amounts per
  share are primarily attributable to $99,821,100 impairment of assets and
  $62,966,000 provision for loan losses recognized in the fourth quarter as compared
  to none in the third quarter.

(2) The increase in net income and amounts per share are
  primarily attributable to gains on sales of real estate of $162,351,000 for
  the third quarter as compared to gains of $1,530,000 for the second quarter.

20.

Variable
Interest Entities

We have entered into
joint ventures to own certain seniors housing and outpatient medical assets
which are deemed to be variable interest entities (“VIEs”).   We have concluded
that we are the primary beneficiary of these VIEs based on a combination of
operational control of the joint venture and the rights to receive residual
returns or the obligation to absorb losses arising from the joint ventures. 
Except for capital contributions associated with the initial joint venture
formations, the joint ventures have been and are expected to be funded from the
ongoing operations of the underlying properties.  Accordingly, such joint
ventures have been consolidated, and the table below summarizes the balance
sheets of consolidated VIEs in the aggregate (in thousands):

December 31, 2017

December 31, 2016

Assets

Net real property owned

$

1,002,137

$

989,596

Cash and cash equivalents

12,308

10,501

Receivables and other assets

16,330

12,102

Total assets

(1)

$

1,030,775

$

1,012,199

Liabilities and equity

Secured debt

$

471,103

$

450,255

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

14,832

13,803

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

171,898

185,556

Total equity

372,942

362,585

Total liabilities and equity

$

1,030,775

$

1,012,199

(1) Note that assets of the consolidated VIEs can only be
  used to settle obligations relating to such VIEs. Liabilities of the
  consolidated VIEs represent claims against the specific assets of the VIEs.

21. Subsequent Events

Genesis
Restructuring.

Subsequent
to December 31, 2017, we entered into agreements with Genesis, our largest
triple-net relationship, which included the following terms:

·

Master Lease: Effective January 1,
2018, the Genesis annual cash rent obligation under the Welltower master lease
was reduced by $35 million and the term was extended by 5 years. Additionally,
lease escalators will be set to 2.5% in year one and 2% thereafter, and rent
will be reset on January 31, 2023 in such fashion to permit the rent payable to
Welltower to increase up to $35 million subject to increases in Genesis’s
EBITDAR relative to the trailing twelve months ended December 31, 2017,
generated by the properties comprising the Welltower master lease portfolio.

·

Term Loan: Welltower and Omega
Healthcare Investors, Inc. (“Omega”) have entered into an agreement with
Genesis to amend and expand the existing Genesis $120 million term loan
agreement. Welltower will fund a $24 million tranche and will receive priority
of repayment among lenders.

WELLTOWER
INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

·

Real Estate Loans: As of December
31, 2017, Welltower had approximately $267 million (excluding allowances and
non-accrual interest) of real estate loans. Welltower and Genesis have entered
into a definitive agreement to amend the annual interest rate beginning
February 15, 2018 to 12%, of which 7% will be paid in cash and 5% will be
paid-in-kind.

·

Interest: Genesis continues to
seek refinancing and asset sale transactions to secure commitments to repay no
less than $105 million of obligations. If Genesis is unsuccessful in securing
such commitments or otherwise reducing the outstanding obligation on or before
April 1, 2018, the cash pay component of loan interest will increase by
approximately $2 million annually.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and

Financial
Disclosure

Not
applicable.

Item 9A.

Controls and
Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

An
evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of
our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the
period covered by this report.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). The Company’s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The Company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the Company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Management
has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2017 based on the criteria established by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013
framework) in a report entitled Internal Control — Integrated Framework.

Based
on this assessment, using the criteria above, management concluded that the
Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting was effective as
of December 31, 2017.

The
independent registered public accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP, as
auditors of the Company’s consolidated financial statements, has issued an
attestation report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial
Reporting

No
change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)
occurred during the fourth quarter of the one-year period covered by this
report that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
our internal control over financial reporting.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and
Shareholders of Welltower Inc.

Opinion on Internal Control
over Financial reporting

We
have audited Welltower Inc. and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial
reporting as of

December 31,

, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (2013 framework) (the “COSO Criteria”). In our opinion, Welltower
Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of

December 31, 2017

,
based on the COSO Criteria.

We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of Welltower Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the related consolidated
statements of comprehensive income, equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2017, and the related notes and
financial statement schedules listed in the index at Item 15(a) of the Company
and our report dated February 28, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

The
Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control
over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm
registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to
the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the
applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and
the PCAOB.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects.

Our
audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of
Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/

Ernst &
Young LLP

Toledo

, Ohio

February 28, 2018

Item 9B.

Other Information

None.


PART III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive
Officers and Corporate Governance

The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the headings “Election of Directors,” “Corporate Governance,”
“Executive Officers,” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and
Certain Beneficial Owners — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) prior to May 1, 2018.

We have
adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our
directors, officers and employees. The code is posted on the Internet at
www.welltower.com/investors/governance. Any amendment to, or waivers from, the
code that relate to any officer or director of the Company will be promptly
disclosed on the Internet at www.welltower.com.

In
addition, the Board has adopted charters for the Audit, Compensation and
Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees. These charters are posted on the Internet
at www.welltower.com/investors/governance.  Please refer to “Item 7 –
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations – Executive Summary – Corporate Governance” in the Annual Report on
Form 10-K for further discussion of corporate governance.

The
information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual
reference only.

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation

The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the headings “Executive Compensation” and “Director
Compensation” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the
Commission prior to May 1, 2018.

Item 12.

Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

and Related Stockholder Matters

The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the headings “Security Ownership of Directors and Management
and Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in
our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior
to May 1, 2018.

Item 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions and Director

Independence

The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the headings “Corporate Governance — Independence and
Meetings” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain
Beneficial Owners — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our
definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to
May 1, 2018.

Item 14.

Principal Accounting
Fees and Services

The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the heading “Ratification of the Appointment of the
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in our definitive proxy
statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to May 1, 2018.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a) 1.

Our Consolidated Financial Statements are
included in Part II,

Item 8:

Report

of Independent
  Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated Balance Sheets – December
  31, 2017 and 2016


Consolidated Statements of 
  Comprehensive Income — Years ended  December 31, 2017, 2016 and  2015


Consolidated Statements of 
  Equity — Years ended  December 31, 2017, 2016 and  2015


Consolidated Statements of  Cash
  Flows — Years ended  December 31, 2017, 2016 and  2015


Notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements


2.

The following
Financial Statement Schedules are included beginning on page 97:

III – Real
Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

IV –
Mortgage Loans on Real Estate

The financial statement
schedule required by Item15(a) (Schedule II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts)
is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(b)

Exhibits:

The exhibits listed below are
either filed with this Form 10-K or incorporated by reference in
accordance with Rule 12b-32 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


3.1(a)     Second Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).

3.1(b)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(c)      Certificate of Amendment of Second
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed June 13, 2003 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(d)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.9 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 9, 2007 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(e)      Certificate of Change of Location of
Registered Office and of Registered Agent of the Company (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 6, 2010 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(f)      Certificate of Designation of 6.50% Series
I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock of the Company (filed with
the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 7, 2011
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(g)      Certificate of Amendment of Second
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 10, 2011 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(h)     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 6, 2014 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(i)       Certificate of Amendment of Second
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 30, 2015 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.2          Fifth Amended and Restated By-Laws of the
Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q
filed October 30, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

4.1(a)     Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2010,
between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15,
2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(b)     Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of
March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

4.1(c)      Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental
Indenture No. 1, dated as of June 18, 2010, between the Company and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed June 18, 2010 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(d)     Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of
April 7, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed April 7, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

4.1(e)      Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental
Indenture No. 2, dated as of June 8, 2010, between the Company and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed June 8, 2010 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


4.1(f)      Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated
as of September 10, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to
the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 13, 2010 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(g)      Supplemental Indenture No. 4, dated as of
November 16, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s
Form 8-K filed November 16, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).

4.1(h)     Supplemental Indenture No. 5, dated as
of March 14, 2011, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed March 14, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(i)       Supplemental Indenture No. 6, dated as of
April 3, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed April 4, 2012 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

4.1(j)      Supplemental Indenture No. 7, dated as of
December 6, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
December 11, 2012 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

4.1(k)     Supplemental Indenture No. 8, dated as of
October 7, 2013, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed October 9, 2013 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

4.1(l)       Supplemental Indenture No. 9, dated as of
November 20, 2013, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed November 20, 2013 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

4.1(m)    Supplemental Indenture No. 10, dated as of
November 25, 2014, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed November 25, 2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

4.1(n)     Supplemental Indenture No. 11, dated as of
May 26, 2015, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed May 27, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

4.1(o)     Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture
No. 11, dated as of October 19, 2015, between the Company and The Bank of New
York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to
the Company’s Form 8-K filed October 20, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(p)     Supplemental Indenture No. 12, dated as of
March 1, 2016, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed March 3, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

4.2          Form of Indenture for Senior Subordinated
Debt Securities (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.9 to the Company’s Form
S-3 (File No. 333-73936) filed November 21, 2001, and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

4.3          Form of Indenture for Junior Subordinated
Debt Securities (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.10 to the Company’s
Form S-3 (File No. 333-73936) filed November 21, 2001, and incorporated herein
by reference thereto).

4.4(a)     Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2015,
by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the Company and BNY Trust Company of
Canada (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.5(a) to the Company’s Form 10-K 
filed February 18, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

4.4(b)     First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of
November 25, 2015, by and among HCN Canadian Holdings-1 LP, the Company and BNY
Trust Company of Canada (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.5(b) to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed February 18, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).


10.1        Credit Agreement dated as of May 13, 2016
by and among the Company; the lenders listed therein; KeyBank National
Association, as administrative agent, L/C issuer and a swingline lender; Bank
of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as co-syndication agents;
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as documentation agent; Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBanc Capital
Markets Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as U.S. joint lead arrangers;
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and RBC Capital Markets, as Canadian joint
lead arrangers; and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as joint book runners (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 16, 2016 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

10.2        Equity Purchase Agreement, dated as of
February 28, 2011, by and among the Company, FC-GEN Investment, LLC and
FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed February 28, 2011
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

10.3(a)   Amended and Restated Health Care REIT, Inc.
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Appendix A to the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed
March 25, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*

10.3(b)   Form of Stock Option Agreement (with
Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive Officers under the 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*

10.3(c)   Form of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend
Equivalent Rights) for Executive Officers under the Amended and Restated 2005
Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(d)   Form of Restricted Stock
Agreement for the Chief Executive Officer under the Amended and Restated 2005
Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(e)   Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for
Executive Officers under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May
10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.4(a)   Amended
and Restated Employment Agreement, dated January 3, 2017, between the Company
and Thomas J. DeRosa
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4(a) to the Company’s Form 10-K filed
February 22, 2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*

10.4(b)   Performance-Based
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement, dated effective as of July 30, 2014,
between the Company and Thomas J. DeRosa (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 4, 2014 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.5(a)   Employment Contract,
dated May 6, 2014, between HCN UK Management Services Limited and John Goodey.*

10.5(b)   Deed of Assignment and
Amendment of Employment Contract, dated effective October 3, 2017, between HCN
UK Management Services Limited, John Goodey, and the Company.*

10.6        Third Amended and Restated Employment Agreement,
dated June 16, 2017, between the Company and Scott A. Estes (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed July 28, 2017 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.7        Resignation Agreement, dated October 3,
2017, between the Company and Scott A. Estes (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2017 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.8        Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated
December 29, 2008, between the Company and Jeffrey H. Miller (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 2, 2009 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


10.9        Executive Retirement Agreement, dated as of
February 16, 2017, by and between Jeffery H. Miller and the Company (filed with
the Commission as Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed February 22,
2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.10      Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated
June 16, 2017, by and between the Company and Mercedes T. Kerr (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed July 28, 2017 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.11      Form of Indemnification Agreement between
the Company and each director, executive officer and officer of the Company
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
February 18, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*

10.12      Summary of Director
Compensation.*

10.13(a) Health Care REIT, Inc. 2015-2017 Long-Term Incentive
Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q
filed August 4, 2015 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*

10.13(b) Form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award
Agreement under the 2015-2017 Long-Term Incentive Program (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed August 4, 2015
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.14(a) Welltower Inc. 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May 10,
2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.14(b) Form of Restricted
Stock Grant Notice for Executive Officers under the 2016 Long-Term Incentive
Plan.*

10.14(c) Form of Restricted
Stock Grant Notice for Senior Vice Presidents under the 2016 Long-Term
Incentive Plan.*

10.14(d) Form of Deferred Stock
Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the 2016 Long-Term
Incentive Plan.*

10.15(a) Welltower Inc. 2016-2018 Long-Term Incentive Program
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
August 2, 2016 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*

10.15(b) Form of Performance
Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2016-2018 Long-Term Incentive
Program.*

10.16(a) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive
Program (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Form 10-Q
filed May 5, 2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*

10.16(b) Form of Award Notice
under the 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive Program.*

10.16(c) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive
Program – Bridge 1 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein
by reference thereto).*

10.16(d) Form of Award Notice
under the 2017-2019 Long Term Incentive Program – Bridge 1.*

10.16(e) Welltower Inc. 2017-2019 Long-Term Incentive
Program – Bridge 2 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q filed November 7, 2017 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein
by reference thereto).*

10.16(f) Form of Award Notice
under the 2017-2019 Long Term Incentive Program – Bridge 2.*

10.17(a) Welltower Inc.
2018-2020 Long-Term Incentive Program.*

10.17(b) Form of Restricted
Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2018-2020 Long-Term Incentive Program.*

12           Statement Regarding
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Ratio of Earnings to
Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends (Unaudited).

Subsidiaries of the Company.

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting
firm.


24           Powers of Attorney.

31.1       
Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer.

31.2       
Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer.

32.1       
Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Executive Officer.

32.2       
Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 by Chief Financial Officer.

101.INS     XBRL Instance
Document**

101.SCH   XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Schema Document**

101.CAL   XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Calculation Linkbase Document**

101.LAB   XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Label Linkbase Document**

101.PRE    XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Presentation Linkbase Document**

101.DEF    XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Definition Linkbase Document**

*

Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.

**

Attached as Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form
  10-K are the following materials, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business
  Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31,
  2017 and 2016, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
  for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, (iii) the
  Consolidated Statements of Equity for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016
  and 2015, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years
  ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, (v) the Notes to Consolidated
  Financial Statements, (vi) Schedule III – Real Estate and Accumulated
  Depreciation and (vii) Schedule IV – Mortgage Loans on Real Estate.

Item 16.

Form 10-K Summary

Not applicable.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: 
February 28, 2018

WELLTOWER
INC.

By:

/s/  T

homas J. DeRosa

Thomas
J. DeRosa,

Chief
Executive Officer and Director

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on February
28, 2018 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities indicated.

/s/

Jeffrey H. Donahue **

/s/

Sergio D. Rivera **

Jeffrey H. Donahue, Chairman
  of the Board

Sergio
  D. Rivera, Director

/s/

Kenneth J. Bacon **

/s/

R. Scott Trumbull **

Kenneth
  J. Bacon, Director

R.
  Scott Trumbull, Director

/s/

Fred S. Klipsch **

/s/

Gary Whitelaw **

Fred
  S. Klipsch, Director

Gary Whitelaw, Director

/s/

Geoffrey G. Meyers

**

/s/

Thomas J. DeRosa **

Geoffrey
  G. Meyers, Director

Thomas J. DeRosa, Chief
  Executive Officer and Director

(Principal
  Executive Officer)

/s/

Timothy J. Naughton

**

/s/

John A. Goodey **

Timothy J.
  Naughton, Director

John A. Goodey,
  Executive Vice President and Chief

Financial
  Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

/s/

Sharon M. Oster **

/s/

Paul D. Nungester, Jr.**

Sharon
  M. Oster, Director

Paul D. Nungester, Jr., Senior Vice President and

Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)

/s/

Judith C. Pelham **

**By:                                                                      /s/

Thomas J. DeRosa

Judith
  C. Pelham, Director

Thomas
  J. DeRosa, Attorney-in-Fact


Welltower Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2017

(Dollars in
  thousands)

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of
  Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Building & Improvements

Cost Capitalized Subsequent to
  Acquisition

Land

Building & Improvements

Accumulated Depreciation

(1)

Year Acquired

Year Built

Address

Triple-net:

Abilene, TX

$

-

$


$

20,987

$


$


$

21,348

$

1,990



6565 Central
  Park Boulevard

Abilene, TX

-


8,187

1,089


9,276




1250 East N 10th
  Street

Aboite Twp, IN

-

1,770

19,930

1,601

1,770

21,531

4,048



611 W County
  Line Rd South

Agawam, MA

-


16,112

2,134


18,246

7,621



1200 Suffield
  St.

Albertville, AL

-


6,203



6,477

1,613



151 Woodham Dr.

Ames, IA

-


8,870

-


8,870

1,835



1325 Coconino
  Rd.

Anderson, SC

-


6,290



6,709

3,278



311 Simpson Rd.

Ankeny, IA

-

1,129

10,270

-

1,129

10,270




1275 SW State
  Street

Apple Valley, CA

-


16,639



16,801

4,199



11825 Apple
  Valley Rd.

Asheboro, NC

-


5,032



5,197

2,019



514 Vision Dr.

Asheville, NC

-


3,489

-


3,489

1,777



4 Walden Ridge
  Dr.

Asheville, NC

-


1,955



2,306




308 Overlook Rd.

Atchison, KS

-


5,610



5,629




1301 N 4th St.

Atlanta, GA

-

2,058

14,914

1,143

2,080

16,035

11,518



1460 S Johnson
  Ferry Rd.

Aurora, OH

-

1,760

14,148


1,760

14,254

2,943



505 S.
  Chillicothe Rd

Aurora, CO

-

2,440

28,172

-

2,440

28,172

10,233



14211 E. Evans
  Ave.

Austin, TX

-


9,520

1,216


10,731

5,451



12429 Scofield
  Farms Dr.

Avon, IN

-

1,830

14,470

-

1,830

14,470

3,127



182 S Country
  RD. 550E

Avon, IN

-


19,444

-


19,444

1,762



10307 E. CR 100
  N

Avon Lake, OH

-


10,421

5,822


16,243

2,666



345 Lear Rd.

Baldwin City, KS

-


4,810



4,858




321 Crimson Ave

Bartlesville, OK

-


1,380

-


1,380




5420 S.E. Adams
  Blvd.

Bellingham, WA

-

1,500

19,861


1,507

20,175

4,945



4415 Columbine
  Dr.

Benbrook, TX

-

1,550

13,553

2,206

1,550

15,759

2,484



4242 Bryant
  Irvin Road

Bethel Park, PA

-

1,700

16,007

-

1,700

16,007

3,837



5785 Baptist
  Road

Beverly Hills,
  CA

-

6,000

13,385

-

6,000

13,385

1,079



220 N Clark
  Drive

Bexleyheath, UKI

-

3,750

10,807

1,407

4,113

11,851




35 West Street

Birmingham, UKG

-

1,647

14,853

1,594

1,806

16,288

1,160



Clinton Street,
  Winson Green

Birmingham, UKG

-

1,591

19,092

1,998

1,745

20,937

1,469



Braymoor Road,
  Tile Cross

Birmingham, UKG

-

1,462

9,056

1,016

1,603

9,931




Clinton Street,
  Winson Green

Birmingham, UKG

-

1,184

10,085

1,089

1,299

11,059




122 Tile Cross
  Road, Garretts Green

Bloomington, IN

-


17,423

-


17,423

1,156



363 S.
  Fieldstone Boulevard

Boardman, OH

-

1,200

12,800

-

1,200

12,800

3,877



8049 South Ave.

Bowling Green,
  KY

-

3,800

26,700


3,800

26,849

6,423



1300 Campbell
  Lane

Bracknell, UKJ

-

4,329

12,167

-

4,329

12,167




Bagshot Road

Bradenton, FL

-


3,298

-


3,298

1,915



6101 Pointe W.
  Blvd.

Bradenton, FL

-


9,953

-


9,953

1,450



2800 60th Avenue
  West

Braintree, MA

-


7,157

1,290


8,447

8,414



1102 Washington
  St.

Braintree, UKH

-

-

13,296

1,285

-

14,581

1,281



Meadow Park
  Tortoiseshell Way

Brandon, MS

-

1,220

10,241

-

1,220

10,241

2,011



140 Castlewoods
  Blvd

Brecksville, OH

-


19,353

-


19,353

1,746



8757 Brecksville
  Road

Brentwood, UKH

38,810

8,537

45,869

5,304

9,362

50,348

1,335



London Road

Brick, NJ

-

1,290

25,247


1,290

26,163

4,357



458 Jack Martin
  Blvd.

Brick, NJ

-

1,170

17,372

1,405

1,188

18,758

3,605



515 Jack Martin
  Blvd

Brick, NJ

-


17,125

5,548


22,671

3,534



1594 Route 88

Bridgewater, NJ

-

1,850

3,050


1,850

3,098

1,546



875 Route
  202/206 North

Bridgewater, NJ

-

1,730

48,201

1,406

1,766

49,571

8,989



2005 Route 22
  West

Bridgewater, NJ

-

1,800

31,810

1,347

1,800

33,157

5,419



680 US-202/206
  North

Broadview
  Heights, OH

-


12,400

2,393


14,793

5,769



2801 E. Royalton
  Rd.

Brookfield, WI

-

1,300

12,830

-

1,300

12,830

1,435



1185 Davidson
  Road

Brooks, AB

2,016


4,951



5,474




951 Cassils Road
  West

Burleson, TX

-


13,985

1,646


15,631

2,588



300 Huguley
  Boulevard

Burlington, NC

-


4,297



5,004

1,917



3619 S. Mebane
  St.

Burlington, NC

-


5,467

-


5,467

2,142



3615 S. Mebane
  St.

Burlington, NJ

-

1,700

12,554


1,700

13,055

2,809



115 Sunset Road

Burlington, NJ

-

1,170

19,205


1,170

19,377

3,560



2305 Rancocas
  Road

Burnaby, BC

8,341

7,623

13,844

2,267

8,429

15,306

1,372



7195 Canada Way

Calgary, AB

17,109

2,341

42,768

4,787

2,588

47,307

4,026



1729-90th Avenue
  SW

Calgary, AB

28,391

4,569

70,199

7,897

5,051

77,613

6,544



500 Midpark Way
  SE

Camberley, UKJ

-

10,580

41,548

-

10,580

41,548




Pembroke
  Broadway

Canton, MA

-


8,201



8,464

6,353



One Meadowbrook
  Way

Canton, OH

-


2,098

-


2,098

1,066



1119 Perry Dr.,
  N.W.

Cape Coral, FL

-


3,281

-


3,281

1,396



911 Santa
  Barbara Blvd.

Cape Coral, FL

8,530


18,868

-


18,868

2,778



831 Santa
  Barbara Boulevard

Cape May Court
  House, NJ

-

1,440

17,002

1,775

1,440

18,777

1,746



144 Magnolia
  Drive

Carmel, IN

-

1,700

19,491

-

1,700

19,491

1,421



  Pennsylvania Street

Carrollton, TX

-

2,010

19,549

-

2,010

19,549




2645 East
  Trinity Mills Road

Cary, NC

-

1,500

4,350


1,500

5,336

2,570



111 MacArthur

Castleton, IN

-


15,137

-


15,137

1,427



8405 Clearvista
  Lake

Cedar Grove, NJ

-

2,850

27,737


2,850

27,757

5,210



536 Ridge Road

Centreville, MD

-


14,602



14,843

2,822



205 Armstrong
  Avenue

Chapel Hill, NC

-


2,646



3,429

1,428



100 Lanark Rd.

Charles Town, WV

-


22,834



22,974

4,081



219 Prospect Ave

Charleston, WV

-


17,575



17,881

3,203



1000 Association
  Drive, North Gate Business Park

Chatham, VA

-


14,039

-


14,039

1,372



100 Rorer Street

Chelmsford, MA

-

1,040

10,951

1,499

1,040

12,450

4,320



4 Technology Dr.

Chester, VA

-

1,320

18,127

-

1,320

18,127

1,733



12001 Iron
  Bridge Road

Chickasha, OK

-


1,395

-


1,395




801 Country Club
  Rd.

Cinnaminson, NJ

-


6,663



6,835

1,461



1700 Wynwood
  Drive

Citrus Heights,
  CA

-

2,300

31,876


2,300

32,465

8,132



7418 Stock Ranch
  Rd.

Claremore, OK

-


1,427

6,130


7,557

1,410



1605 N. Hwy. 88

Clarksville, TN

-


2,292

-


2,292

1,159



2183 Memorial
  Dr.

Clayton, NC

-


15,733

-


15,733

1,339



84 Johnson
  Estate Road

Cleburne, TX

-


5,369

-


5,369

1,524



402 S Colonial
  Drive

Clevedon, UKK

-

2,838

16,927

1,910

3,112

18,563

1,631



18/19 Elton Road

Cobham, UKJ

-

9,808

24,991

3,362

10,756

27,406

3,164



Redhill Road

Colchester, CT

-


4,860



5,404

1,252



59 Harrington 
  Court

Colorado
  Springs, CO

-

4,280

62,168

-

4,280

62,168

3,730



1605 Elm Creek
  View

Colorado
  Springs, CO

-

1,730

25,493


1,730

26,186

1,184



2818 Grand Vista
  Circle

Colts Neck, NJ

-


14,733

1,371

1,082

15,802

3,108



3 Meridian
  Circle

Columbia, TN

-


2,295

-


2,295

1,165



5011 Trotwood
  Ave.

Columbia
  Heights, MN

-


14,175



14,338

2,359



3807 Hart
  Boulevard

Columbus, IN

-


3,190

-


3,190




2564 Foxpointe
  Dr.

Concord, NC

-


3,921



3,976

1,693



2452 Rock Hill
  Church Rd.

Concord, NH

-

1,760

43,179


1,760

43,813

7,855



239 Pleasant
  Street

Congleton, UKD

-

2,036

5,120


2,232

5,615




Rood Hill

Conroe, TX

-


7,771

-


7,771

1,736



903 Longmire
  Road

Coppell, TX

-

1,550

8,386


1,550

8,486

1,084



1530 East Sandy
  Lake Road

Corby, UKF

-

1,228

5,144

-

1,228

5,144




25 Rockingham
  Road

Coventry, UKG

-

1,962

13,830

1,526

2,151

15,166

1,113



Banner Lane,
  Tile Hill

Crawfordsville,
  IN

-


17,239

1,426


18,665

1,695



517 Concord Road

Danville, VA

-


3,954



4,676

1,853



149 Executive
  Ct.

Danville, VA

-


8,436

-


8,436




508 Rison Street

Daphne, AL

-

2,880

8,670


2,880

9,054

1,366



27440 County
  Road 13

Dedham, MA

-

1,360

9,830

-

1,360

9,830

4,418



10 CareMatrix
  Dr.

Denton, TX

-

1,760

8,305


1,760

8,405

1,538



2125 Brinker Rd

Derby, UKF

-

2,503

9,058

-

2,503

9,058




Rykneld Road

Dover, DE

-


22,266



22,407

4,104



1080 Silver Lake
  Blvd.

Dresher, PA

-

2,060

40,236

1,148

2,120

41,324

7,471



1405 N. Limekiln
  Pike

Dundalk, MD

-

1,770

32,047


1,770

32,831

5,984



7232 German Hill
  Road

Durham, NC

-

1,476

10,659

2,196

1,476

12,855

11,283



4434 Ben
  Franklin Blvd.

Eagan, MN

16,741

2,260

31,643


2,260

31,647

1,772



3810 Alder
  Avenue

East Brunswick,
  NJ

-

1,380

34,229


1,380

35,064

5,769



606 Cranbury Rd.

East Norriton,
  PA

-

1,200

28,129

1,604

1,264

29,670

5,414



2101 New Hope St

Eastbourne, UKJ

-

4,071

24,438

2,755

4,465

26,799

2,323



Carew Road

Eden, NC

-


4,877

-


4,877

1,931



314 W. Kings
  Hwy.

Edmond, OK

-


8,388

-


8,388

1,321



15401 North
  Pennsylvania Avenue

Edmond, OK

-

1,810

14,849

1,921

1,810

16,770

1,530



1225 Lakeshore
  Drive

Edmond, OK

-

1,650

25,167

-

1,650

25,167




2709 East
  Danforth Road

Elizabeth City,
  NC

-


2,760

2,011


4,771

2,152



400 Hastings
  Lane

Emeryville, CA

-

2,560

57,491


2,560

58,132

5,204



1440 40th Street

Englewood, NJ

-


4,514



4,540




333 Grand Avenue

Englishtown, NJ

-


12,520

1,489


13,930

2,718



49 Lasatta Ave

Epsom, UKJ

39,175

20,159

34,803

5,346

22,106

38,201

1,014



450-458 Reigate
  Road

Eureka, KS

-


3,950



4,020




1820 E River St

Everett, WA

-

1,400

5,476

-

1,400

5,476

2,689



2015 Lake
  Heights Dr.

Fairfield, CA

-

1,460

14,040

1,541

1,460

15,581

6,266



3350 Cherry
  Hills St.

Fairhope, AL

-


9,119



9,231

1,402



50 Spring Run
  Road

Fall River, MA

-


5,829

4,856


10,685

5,212



1748 Highland
  Ave.

Fanwood, NJ

-

2,850

55,175

1,071

2,850

56,246

9,157



295 South Ave.

Faribault, MN

-


11,539



11,590




828 1st Street
  NE

Farnborough, UKJ

-

2,036

5,737


2,232

6,291




Bruntile Close,
  Reading Road

Fayetteville, PA

-

2,150

32,951

1,802

2,150

34,753

2,191



  Chambersburg Road

Fayetteville, NY

-


3,962



4,462

1,866



5125 Highbridge
  St.

Findlay, OH

-


1,800

-


1,800




725 Fox Run Rd.

Fishers, IN

-

1,500

14,500

-

1,500

14,500

3,132



9745 Olympia Dr.

Florence, NJ

-


2,978

-


2,978

1,262



901 Broad St.

Florence, AL

-


13,049



13,217

3,234



3275 County Road

Flourtown, PA

-

1,800

14,830


1,800

15,096

2,866



350 Haws Lane

Flower Mound, TX

-

1,800

8,414


1,800

8,514

1,276



4141 Long
  Prairie Road

Folsom, CA

-

-

33,600

-

1,582

32,018

4,045



330 Montrose
  Drive

Forest City, NC

-


4,497

-


4,497

1,797



493 Piney Ridge
  Rd.

Fort Ashby, WV

-


19,566



19,922

3,512



Diane Drive, Box

Fort Collins, CO

-

3,680

58,608

-

3,680

58,608

3,505



4750 Pleasant
  Oak Drive

Fort Wayne, IN

-


8,232

-


8,232

2,408



2626 Fairfield
  Ave.

Fort Worth, TX

-


13,615

5,086


18,701

3,614



425 Alabama Ave.

Franconia, NH

-


11,320



11,390

2,119



93 Main Street

Fredericksburg,
  VA

-

1,000

20,000

1,200

1,000

21,200

6,879



3500 Meekins Dr.

Fredericksburg,
  VA

-

1,130

23,202

-

1,130

23,202

2,045



140 Brimley
  Drive

Fremont, CA

-

3,400

25,300

3,203

3,456

28,447

9,360



2860 Country Dr.

Fresno, CA

-

2,500

35,800


2,500

35,918

8,599



7173 North
  Sharon Avenue

Gardner, KS

-


2,800



2,891




869 Juniper
  Terrace

Gardnerville, NV

-

1,143

10,831

1,075

1,164

11,885

8,717



1565-A Virginia
  Ranch Rd.

Gastonia, NC

-


6,129

-


6,129

2,390



1680 S. New Hope
  Rd.

Gastonia, NC

-


3,096



3,118

1,283



1717 Union Rd.

Gastonia, NC

-


5,029



5,149

2,022



1750 Robinwood
  Rd.

Georgetown, TX

-


2,100

-


2,100

1,127



2600 University
  Dr., E.

Gettysburg, PA

-


8,913



9,031

1,844



867 York Road

Gig Harbor, WA

-

1,560

15,947


1,583

16,177

3,863



3213 45th St.
  Court NW

Granbury, TX

-

2,550

2,940


2,550

3,717




916 East Highway

Grand Ledge, MI

-

1,150

16,286

5,119

1,150

21,405

3,731



4775 Village Dr

Granger, IN

-

1,670

21,280

2,401

1,670

23,681

4,392



6330 North Fir
  Rd

Grapevine, TX

-

2,220

17,648

-

2,220

17,648

1,105



4545 Merlot
  Drive

Greeley, CO

-

1,077

18,051

-

1,077

18,051




5300 West 29th
  Street

Greenfield, WI

-

-

15,204

-


14,314

1,685



5017 South 110th
  Street

Greensboro, NC

-


2,970



3,524

1,425



5809 Old Oak
  Ridge Rd.

Greensboro, NC

-


5,507

1,013


6,520

2,618



4400 Lawndale
  Dr.

Greenville, SC

-


4,750

-


4,750

1,814



23 Southpointe
  Dr.

Greenville, NC

-


4,393



4,561

1,774



2715 Dickinson
  Ave.

Greenwood, IN

-

1,550

22,770


1,550

22,851

4,334



2339 South SR

Groton, CT

-

2,430

19,941


2,430

20,909

4,156



1145 Poquonnock
  Road

Haddonfield, NJ

-


16,363

-


16,363

1,293



132 Warwick Road

Hamburg, PA

-


10,543



10,765

2,271



125 Holly Road

Hamilton, NJ

-


4,469

-


4,469

1,882



  Whitehorse-Mercerville Rd.

Hanford, UKG

-

1,382

9,829

1,083

1,515

10,779

1,257



Bankhouse Road

Harrow, UKI

-

7,402

8,266

1,514

8,117

9,064




177 Preston Hill

Hatboro, PA

-

-

28,112

1,771

-

29,883

5,298



3485 Davisville
  Road

Hatfield, UKH

-

2,924

7,527

1,010

3,206

8,254




St Albans Road
  East

Hattiesburg, MS

-


13,469

-


13,469

2,364



217 Methodist
  Hospital Blvd

Haverford, PA

-

1,880

33,993

1,080

1,884

35,069

6,307



731 Old Buck
  Lane

Hermitage, TN

-

1,500

9,943

-

1,500

9,943

1,695



4131 Andrew
  Jackson Parkway

Herne Bay, UKJ

-

1,900

24,353

2,537

2,083

26,706

3,389



165 Reculver
  Road

Hiawatha, KS

-


4,210



4,239




400 Kansas Ave

Hickory, NC

-





1,219




2530 16th St.
  N.E.

High Point, NC

-


4,443



5,236

2,083



1568 Skeet Club
  Rd.

High Point, NC

-


2,185



2,595

1,090



1564 Skeet Club
  Rd.

High Point, NC

-


3,395



3,423

1,370



201 W. Hartley
  Dr.

High Point, NC

-


4,143

-


4,143

1,646



1560 Skeet Club
  Rd.

Highland Park,
  IL

-

2,820

15,832


2,820

16,021

2,136



1651 Richfield
  Avenue

Highlands Ranch,
  CO

-


3,721

4,983


8,704

2,091



9160 S.
  University Blvd.

Hinckley, UKF

-

2,159

4,194


2,368

4,599




Tudor Road

Hindhead, UKJ

47,374

17,852

48,645

6,463

19,576

53,383

1,392



Portsmouth Road

Hockessin, DE

-

1,120

6,308

1,247

1,120

7,555




100 Saint Claire
  Drive

Holton, KS

-


7,460



7,473




410 Juniper Dr

Howard, WI

-


32,122

-


32,122




2790 Elm Tree
  Hill

Howell, NJ

8,835

1,066

21,577


1,071

22,341

4,129



100 Meridian
  Place

Hutchinson, KS

-


10,590



10,784

3,716



2416 Brentwood

Indianapolis, IN

-


14,688

-


14,688

1,390



1635 N Arlington
  Avenue

Indianapolis, IN

-


18,781

-


18,781

1,639



5404 Georgetown
  Road

Jackson, NJ

-

6,500

26,405

3,107

6,500

29,512

3,820



2 Kathleen Drive

Jacksonville, FL

-


25,231

-


25,231




5939 Roosevelt
  Boulevard

Jacksonville, FL

-

-

26,381

-

-

26,381

1,031



4000 San Pablo
  Parkway

Kansas City, KS

-


20,116

-


20,116

1,113



8900 Parallel
  Parkway

Katy, TX

-

1,778

22,622

-

1,778

22,622




24802 Kingsland
  Boulevard

Kenner, LA

-

1,100

10,036


1,100

10,364

9,033



1600 Joe Yenni
  Blvd

Kennett Square,
  PA

-

1,050

22,946


1,083

23,229

4,219



301 Victoria
  Gardens Dr.

Kingston upon Thames,
  UKI

56,849

33,063

46,696

7,751

36,258

51,252

1,351



Coombe Lane West

Kirkland, WA

-

1,880

4,315


1,880

4,998

1,792



6505 Lakeview
  Dr.

Kirkstall, UKE

-

2,437

9,414

1,145

2,672

10,324

1,207



29 Broad Lane

Kokomo, IN

-


16,044

-


16,044

1,515



2200 S. Dixon Rd

Lafayette, LA

-

1,928

10,483


1,928

10,509

4,358



204 Energy
  Parkway

Lafayette, CO

-

1,420

20,192

-

1,420

20,192

1,430



329 Exempla
  Circle

Lafayette, IN

-


16,833

-


16,833

1,372



2402 South
  Street

Lakeway, TX

-

5,142

23,203

-

5,142

23,203

2,550



2000 Medical Dr

Lakewood, CO

-

2,160

28,091


2,160

28,153

2,823



7395 West
  Eastman Place

Lakewood Ranch,
  FL

-


6,714

1,988


8,702

1,240



8230 Nature's
  Way

Lakewood Ranch,
  FL

-

1,000

22,388

-

1,000

22,388

3,234



8220 Natures Way

Lancaster, CA

-


15,295



15,907

4,279



43051 15th St.
  West

Lancaster, PA

-

1,680

14,039

-

1,680

14,039




31 Millersville
  Road

Langhorne, PA

-

1,350

24,881


1,350

25,052

4,717



262 Toll Gate
  Road

LaPlata, MD

-


19,068



19,534

3,653



One Magnolia
  Drive

Las Vegas, NV

-


23,420

-


23,420

3,967



2500 North
  Tenaya Way

Lawrence, KS

-


8,716

-


8,716

1,245



3220 Peterson
  Road

Lecanto, FL

-


6,900

-


6,900

2,541



2341 W. Norvell
  Bryant Hwy.

Lee, MA

-


18,135



19,061

7,947



600 & 620
  Laurel St.

Leeds, UKE

-

1,974

13,239

1,470

2,165

14,518

1,007



100 Grove Lane

Leicester, UKF

-

3,060

24,410

2,654

3,355

26,769

3,516



307 London Road

Lenoir, NC

-


3,748



4,389

1,739



1145 Powell Rd.,
  N.E.

Lethbridge, AB

1,505

1,214

2,750


1,342

3,040




785 Columbia
  Boulevard West

Lexana, KS

-


1,770



1,918




8710 Caenen Lake
  Rd

Lexington, NC

-


3,900

1,015


4,915

2,011



161 Young Dr.

Libertyville, IL

-

6,500

40,024

-

6,500

40,024

7,376



901 Florsheim Dr

Lichfield, UKG

-

1,382

30,324

3,063

1,515

33,254

2,350



Wissage Road

Lillington, NC

-


17,579

-


17,579

1,598



54 Red Mulberry
  Way

Lillington, NC

-


16,451

-


16,451

1,402



2041 NC-210 N

Lincoln, NE

-


13,807



13,902

2,789



7208 Van Dorn
  St.

Linwood, NJ

-


21,984

1,056


22,980

4,341



432 Central Ave

Litchfield, CT

-

1,240

17,908

10,991

1,258

28,882

4,068



19 Constitution
  Way

Lititz, PA

-

1,200

13,836

-

1,200

13,836




80 West Millport
  Road

Little Neck, NY

-

3,350

38,461

1,265

3,357

39,720

7,308



55-15 Little
  Neck Pkwy.

Livermore, CA

-

4,100

24,996

-

4,100

24,996

2,008



35 Fenton Street

Livingston, NJ

-

8,000

44,424

-

8,000

44,424




369 E Mt
  Pleasant Avenue

London, UKI

-

8,158

17,545

-

8,158

17,545




6 Victoria Drive

Longview, TX

-


5,520

-


5,520

1,576



311 E Hawkins
  Pkwy

Longwood, FL

-

1,260

6,445

-

1,260

6,445

1,172



425 South Ronald
  Reagan Boulevard

Louisburg, KS

-


4,320



4,355




202 Rogers St

Louisville, KY

-


10,010

2,768


12,778

4,594



4604 Lowe Rd

Lowell, MA

-


3,378



3,422




30 Princeton
  Blvd

Loxley, UKE

-

1,369

15,668

1,646

1,502

17,182

2,161



Loxley Road

Lutherville, MD

-

1,100

19,786

1,744

1,100

21,530

3,877



515 Brightfield
  Road

Lynchburg, VA

-


16,114

-


16,114

1,484



189 Monica Blvd

Macungie, PA

-


29,033



29,117

5,262



1718 Spring
  Creek Road

Mahwah, NJ

-

1,605

27,249

-

1,605

27,249

1,826



15 Edison Road

Manalapan, NJ

-


22,624



23,213

3,813



445 Route 9
  South

Manassas, VA

-


7,446



7,976

2,899



8341 Barrett Dr.

Mankato, MN

-

1,460

32,104


1,460

32,117

1,792



100 Dublin Road

Mansfield, TX

-


5,251

-


5,251

1,516



2281 Country
  Club Dr

Manteca, CA

-

1,300

12,125

1,566

1,312

13,679

5,000



430 N. Union Rd.

Marietta, PA

-

1,050

13,633

-

1,050

13,633




2760 Maytown
  Road

Marion, IN

-


12,750

1,136


13,886

1,264



614 W. 14th
  Street

Marion, IN

-


9,190



10,014

1,083



505 N. Bradner
  Avenue

Marlborough, UKK

-

2,677

6,822


2,936

7,482




The Common

Marlow, UKJ

-

9,619

42,134

-

9,619

42,134

1,970



210 Little
  Marlow Road

Martinsville, VA

-


-

-


-

-



Rolling Hills
  Rd. & US Hwy. 58

Marysville, WA

-


4,780



5,683

2,072



9802 48th Dr.
  N.E.

Matawan, NJ

-

1,830

20,618


1,830

20,784

3,552



625 State
  Highway 34

Matthews, NC

-


4,738

-


4,738

1,920



2404 Plantation
  Center Dr.

McHenry, IL

-

1,576

-

-

1,576

-

-



5200 Block of
  Bull Valley Road

McKinney, TX

-

1,570

7,389

-

1,570

7,389

1,666



2701 Alma Rd.

McMurray, PA

-

1,440

15,805

3,894

1,440

19,699

3,093



240 Cedar Hill
  Dr

Mechanicsburg,
  PA

-

1,350

16,650

-

1,350

16,650

2,888



4950 Wilson Lane

Medicine Hat, AB

2,471


5,566


1,031

6,154




65 Valleyview
  Drive SW

Melville, NY

-

4,280

73,283

4,616

4,306

77,874

13,828



70 Pinelawn Rd

Mendham, NJ

-

1,240

27,169


1,240

27,807

5,006



84 Cold Hill
  Road

Menomonee Falls,
  WI

-

1,020

6,984

1,652

1,020

8,636

2,057



W128 N6900
  Northfield Drive

Mercerville, NJ

-


9,929



10,102

2,012



2240 White
  Horse- Merceville Road

Meriden, CT

-

1,300

1,472


1,300

1,705




845 Paddock Ave

Merrillville, IN

-


11,699



11,853

3,105



9509 Georgia St.

Mesa, AZ

-


9,087

1,567


10,654

4,657



7231 E. Broadway

Middleburg
  Heights, OH

-


7,780

-


7,780

2,758



15435 Bagley Rd.

Middleton, WI

-


4,006



4,606

1,802



6701 Stonefield 
  Rd.

Midland, MI

-


11,025

5,522


16,547

2,555



2325 Rockwell Dr

Mill Creek, WA

-

10,150

60,274


10,179

61,179

17,227



  Bothell-Everett Hwy

Millville, NJ

-


29,944



30,073

5,532



54 Sharp Street

Milton Keynes,
  UKJ

-

1,826

18,654

1,979

2,002

20,456

1,488



Tunbridge Grove,
  Kents Hill

Mishawaka, IN

-


16,114

-


16,114

1,569



60257 Bodnar
  Blvd

Missoula, MT

-


7,490



7,867

2,576



3620 American
  Way

Monmouth
  Junction, NJ

-


6,209



6,295

1,323



2 Deer Park
  Drive

Monroe, NC

-


3,681



4,329

1,750



918 Fitzgerald
  St.

Monroe, NC

-


4,799



5,656

2,181



919 Fitzgerald
  St.

Monroe, NC

-


4,021



4,135

1,669



1316 Patterson
  Ave.

Monroe Township,
  NJ

-

3,250

27,771


3,250

27,991

1,454



319 Forsgate
  Drive

Monroe Twp, NJ

-

1,160

13,193


1,160

13,307

2,666



292 Applegarth
  Road

Montville, NJ

-

3,500

31,002

1,073

3,500

32,075

5,350



165 Changebridge
  Rd.

Moorestown, NJ

-

2,060

51,628

1,653

2,071

53,270

9,619



1205 N. Church
  St

Moorestown, NJ

-

6,400

23,875


6,400

23,902

2,531



250 Marter
  Avenue

Morehead City,
  NC

-


3,104

1,648


4,752

2,149



107 Bryan St.

Morton Grove, IL

-

1,900

19,374


1,900

19,533

3,201



5520 N. Lincoln
  Ave.

Moulton, UKF

-

1,695

12,510

-

1,695

12,510




Northampton Lane
  North

Mount Pleasant,
  SC

-

-

17,200

-

4,052

13,149

2,586



1200 Hospital
  Drive

Nacogdoches, TX

-


5,754

-


5,754

1,636



5902 North St

Naperville, IL

-

3,470

29,547

-

3,470

29,547

5,550



504 North River
  Road

Nashville, TN

-

4,910

29,590

-

4,910

29,590

7,529



15 Burton Hills
  Boulevard

Naugatuck, CT

-

1,200

15,826


1,200

16,025

3,028



4 Hazel Avenue

Needham, MA

-

1,610

13,715


1,610

14,081

6,424



100 West St.

New Moston, UKD

-

1,480

4,378


1,623

4,801




90a Broadway

Newark, DE

-


21,220

1,488


22,708

7,504



200 E. Village
  Rd.

Newcastle Under
  Lyme, UKG

-

1,110

5,655


1,218

6,202




Hempstalls Lane

Newcastle-under-Lyme,
  UKG

-

1,125

5,537


1,234

6,072




Silverdale Road

Norman, OK

-


1,484

-


1,484




1701 Alameda Dr.

Norman, OK

-

1,480

33,330

-

1,480

33,330

4,715



800 Canadian
  Trails Drive

North Augusta,
  SC

-


2,558

-


2,558

1,288



105 North Hills
  Dr.

North Cape May,
  NJ

-


22,266



22,384

4,099



700 Townbank
  Road

Northampton, UKF

-

5,182

17,348

2,177

5,682

19,024

2,300



Cliftonville
  Road

Northampton, UKF

-

2,013

6,257


2,208

6,862




Cliftonville
  Road

Nuneaton, UKG

-

3,325

8,983

1,189

3,646

9,850

1,147



132 Coventry
  Road

Nuthall, UKF

-

1,628

6,263


1,786

6,868




172A Nottingham
  Road

Nuthall, UKF

-

2,498

10,436

1,250

2,740

11,444

1,346



172 Nottingham
  Road

Oakland, CA

-

4,760

16,143


4,760

16,252

1,500



468 Perkins
  Street

Ocala, FL

-

1,340

10,564

-

1,340

10,564

2,468



2650 SE 18TH
  Avenue

Ogden, UT

-


6,700



7,399

2,509



1340 N.
  Washington Blv.

Oklahoma City,
  OK

-


7,513

-


7,513

1,968



13200 S. May Ave

Oklahoma City,
  OK

-


7,017

-


7,017

1,788



11320 N. Council
  Road

Olathe, KS

-

1,930

19,765


1,930

20,318

1,138



21250 W 151
  Street

Omaha, NE

-


10,230

-


10,230

2,096



11909 Miracle
  Hills Dr.

Omaha, NE

-


8,769

-


8,769

1,896



5728 South 108th
  St.

Ona, WV

-


15,998

-


15,998




100 Weatherholt
  Drive

Oneonta, NY

-


5,020

-


5,020

1,315



1846 County
  Highway 48

Orem, UT

-

2,150

24,107

-

2,150

24,107

1,400



250 East Center
  Street

Osage City, KS

-


1,700



1,836




1403 Laing St

Osawatomie, KS

-


2,970



3,096




1520 Parker Ave

Ottawa, KS

-


6,590



6,630




2250 S Elm St

Overland Park,
  KS

-

3,730

27,076


3,730

27,416

6,190



12000 Lamar
  Avenue

Overland Park,
  KS

-

4,500

29,105

7,295

4,500

36,400

7,345



6101 W 119th St

Overland Park,
  KS

-


2,840



2,910




14430 Metcalf
  Ave

Overland Park,
  KS

-

1,300

25,311


1,300

25,988

1,464



7600 Antioch
  Road

Owasso, OK

-


1,380

-


1,380




12807 E. 86th
  Place N.

Owensboro, KY

-


13,275

-


13,275

4,813



1205 Leitchfield
  Rd.

Owenton, KY

-


2,400

-


2,400

1,059



905 Hwy. 127 N.

Oxford, MI

-

1,430

15,791

-

1,430

15,791

3,172



701 Market St

Palestine, TX

-


4,320

1,300


5,620

1,668



1625 W. Spring
  St.

Palm Coast, FL

-


10,957

-


10,957

2,421



50 Town Ct.

Panama City
  Beach, FL

-


6,402

-


6,402




6012 Magnolia
  Beach Road

Paola, KS

-


5,610



5,667




601 N. East
  Street

Paris, TX

-


5,452

-


5,452

4,057



750 N Collegiate
  Dr

Paso Robles, CA

-

1,770

8,630


1,770

9,323

3,811



1919 Creston Rd.

Pella, IA

-


6,716



6,805




2602 Fifield
  Road

Pennington, NJ

-

1,380

27,620


1,476

28,462

4,740



143 West
  Franklin Avenue

Pennsauken, NJ

-


10,780



10,959

2,340



5101 North Park
  Drive

Petoskey, MI

-


14,452

-


14,452

2,750



965 Hager Dr

Philadelphia, PA

-

2,930

10,433

3,536

2,930

13,969

2,765



1526 Lombard
  Street

Phillipsburg, NJ

-


21,175



21,413

4,046



290 Red School
  Lane

Phillipsburg, NJ

-


8,114



8,215

1,546



843 Wilbur
  Avenue

Pinehurst, NC

-


2,690



3,174

1,320



17 Regional Dr.

Piqua, OH

-


1,885

-


1,885




1744 W. High St.

Piscataway, NJ

-

3,100

33,501

-

3,100

33,501




10 Sterling
  Drive

Pittsburgh, PA

-

1,750

8,572


1,750

8,687

3,096



100 Knoedler Rd.

Plainview, NY

-

3,990

11,969

1,085

3,990

13,054

2,355



150 Sunnyside
  Blvd

Plano, TX

-

1,840

20,152


1,840

20,712




3325 W Plano
  Parkway

Plattsmouth, NE

-


5,650

-


5,650

1,218



1913 E. Highway

Plymouth, MI

-

1,490

19,990


1,490

20,320

3,862



14707 Northville
  Rd

Princeton, NJ

-

1,730

30,888

1,713

1,810

32,521

5,525



155 Raymond Road

Prior Lake, MN

14,033

1,870

29,849


1,870

29,862

1,666



4685 Park
  Nicollet Avenue

Puyallup, WA

-

1,150

20,776


1,156

21,216

5,246



123 Fourth Ave.
  NW

Raleigh, NC

-

7,598

88,870

-

7,598

88,870

1,959



4030 Cardinal at
  North Hills St

Raleigh, NC

-

3,530

59,589

-

3,530

59,589

8,253



5301 Creedmoor
  Road

Raleigh, NC

-

2,580

16,837

-

2,580

16,837

2,497



7900 Creedmoor
  Road

Reading, PA

-


19,906



20,046

3,736



5501 Perkiomen
  Ave

Red Bank, NJ

-

1,050

21,275


1,050

21,840

3,593



One Hartford Dr.

Rehoboth Beach,
  DE

-


24,248

8,708


32,938

5,180



36101 Seaside
  Blvd

Reidsville, NC

-


3,830



4,687

1,935



2931 Vance St.

Reno, NV

-

1,060

11,440


1,060

12,045

4,148



5165 Summit
  Ridge Road

Richmond, IN

-


14,222



14,615




400 Industries
  Road

Richmond, VA

-

-

12,000

-


11,750

1,624



2220 Edward
  Holland Drive

Ridgeland, MS

-


7,675



8,102

2,966



410 Orchard Park

Rochdale, MA

-

-

7,100

-


6,410




111 Huntoon
  Memorial Highway

Rockville, CT

-

1,500

4,835


1,500

5,016

1,248



1253 Hartford
  Turnpike

Rockville
  Centre, NY

-

4,290

20,310


4,290

21,178

3,656



260 Maple Ave

Rockwall, TX

-

2,220

17,650

-

2,220

17,650

1,131



720 E Ralph Hall
  Parkway

Rocky Hill, CT

-

1,090

6,710

1,500

1,090

8,210

2,889



60 Cold Spring
  Rd.

Rohnert Park, CA

-

6,500

18,700

2,116

6,546

20,769

7,032



4855 Snyder Lane

Romeoville, IL

-

1,895

-

-

1,895

-

-



Grand Haven
  Circle

Roseville, MN

-

2,140

24,679


2,140

24,746

1,391



2750 North
  Victoria Street

Roswell, GA

-

1,107

9,627

1,086

1,114

10,706

7,942



655 Mansell Rd.

Rugeley, UKG

-

1,900

10,262

1,175

2,083

11,253

1,387



Horse Fair

Ruston, LA

-


9,790

-


9,790

1,842



1401 Ezelle St

Sacramento, CA

-


14,781



15,020

3,718



6350 Riverside
  Blvd

Salem, OR

-


5,171

-


5,172

2,585



1355 Boone Rd.
  S.E.

Salisbury, NC

-


5,697



5,865

2,284



2201 Statesville
  Blvd.

San Angelo, TX

-


8,800



9,225

3,122



2695 Valleyview
  Blvd.

San Angelo, TX

-

1,050

24,689

1,052

1,050

25,741

2,358



6101 Grand Court
  Road

San Antonio, TX

-

-

17,303

-

-

17,303

7,106



8902 Floyd Curl
  Dr.

San Bernardino,
  CA

-

3,700

14,300


3,700

14,987

3,490



1760 W. 16th St.

San Diego, CA

-

-

22,003

1,845

-

23,848

5,472



555 Washington
  St.

Sanatoga, PA

-


30,695



30,787

5,551



225 Evergreen
  Road

Sand Springs, OK

-


19,654

-


19,654

2,832



4402 South 129th
  Avenue West

Sarasota, FL

-


3,175

-


3,175

1,843



8450 McIntosh
  Rd.

Sarasota, FL

-

3,360

19,140

-

3,360

19,140

3,179



6150 Edgelake
  Drive

Scranton, PA

-


17,609

-


17,609

1,533



2741 Blvd. Ave

Scranton, PA

-


12,144

-


12,144

1,059



2751 Boulevard
  Ave

Seattle, WA

-

5,190

9,350


5,199

9,905

3,373



11501 15th Ave
  NE

Seattle, WA

27,180

10,670

37,291


10,700

38,155

11,465



805 4th Ave N

Selbyville, DE

-


25,912



26,308

4,848



21111 Arrington
  Dr

Seven Fields, PA

-


4,663



4,722

2,364



500 Seven Fields
  Blvd.

Severna Park, MD

-

2,120

31,273


2,120

32,081

5,756



24 Truckhouse
  Road

Shawnee, OK

-


1,400

-


1,400




3947 Kickapoo

Shelbyville, KY

-


3,870



4,500

1,474



1871 Midland
  Trail

Sherman, TX

-


5,221

-


5,221

1,555



1011 E. Pecan
  Grove Rd.

Shrewsbury, NJ

-

2,120

38,116

1,080

2,128

39,188

7,156



5 Meridian Way

Silvis, IL

-


16,420



16,559

3,247



1900 10th St.

Sittingbourne,
  UKJ

-

1,357

6,539


1,488

7,170




200 London Road

Smithfield, NC

-


5,680

-


5,680

2,228



830 Berkshire
  Rd.

Smithfield, NC

-


8,216

-


8,216




250 Highway 210
  West

Sonoma, CA

-

1,100

18,400

1,700

1,109

20,090

6,758



800 Oregon St.

South Bend, IN

-


17,770

-


17,770

1,604



52565 State Road

South Boston, MA

-


2,002

5,218


7,220

3,652



804 E. Seventh
  St.

Southampton, UKJ

-

1,612

16,803

-

1,612

16,803




Botley Road,
  Park Gate

Southbury, CT

-

1,860

23,613


1,860

24,571

4,300



655 Main St

Springfield, IL

-

-

10,100

-


9,332

1,682



701 North Walnut
  Street

Springfield, IL

-


13,378

1,084


14,462

1,292



3089 Old
  Jacksonville Road

St. Louis, MO

-

1,890

12,390

-

1,890

12,390

2,354



6543 Chippewa St

St. Paul, MN

-

2,100

33,019


2,100

33,097

1,843



750 Mississippi
  River

Stafford, UKG

-

2,131

8,739

-

2,131

8,739




Stone Road

Stamford, UKF

-

1,820

3,238


1,996

3,551




Priory Road

Statesville, NC

-


1,447



1,713




2441 E. Broad
  St.

Statesville, NC

-


6,183



6,191

2,365



2806 Peachtree
  Place

Statesville, NC

-


3,627

-


3,627

1,416



2814 Peachtree
  Rd.

Stillwater, OK

-


1,400

-


1,400




1616 McElroy Rd.

Stockton, CA

-

2,280

5,983


2,372

6,288

1,821



6725 Inglewood

Stratford-upon-Avon,
  UKG

-


14,508

1,478


15,910

1,123



Scholars Lane

Stroudsburg, PA

-


16,313

-


16,313

1,573



370 Whitestone
  Corner Road

Summit, NJ

-

3,080

14,152

-

3,080

14,152

2,633



41 Springfield
  Avenue

Sunninghill, UKJ

-

12,338

44,799

-

12,338

44,799




Bagshot Road

Superior, WI

-

1,020

13,735

6,159

1,020

19,894

2,361



1915 North 34th
  Street

Swanton, OH

-


6,370

-


6,370

2,392



401 W. Airport
  Hwy.

Terre Haute, IN

-

1,370

18,016

-

1,370

18,016

1,408



395 8th Avenue

Texarkana, TX

-


1,403

-


1,403




4204 Moores Lane

The Villages, FL

-

1,035

7,446

-

1,035

7,446




2450 Parr Drive

Thomasville, GA

-


12,520

-


12,520

1,757



423 Covington
  Avenue

Tomball, TX

-

1,050

13,300


1,050

14,140

2,438



1221 Graham Dr

Toms River, NJ

-

1,610

34,627


1,679

35,423

6,545



1587 Old
  Freehold Rd

Tonganoxie, KS

-


3,690



3,762




120 W 8th St

Topeka, KS

-


12,712

-


12,712

1,892



1931 Southwest
  Arvonia Place

Towson, MD

-

1,180

13,280


1,180

13,475

2,589



7700 York Road

Troy, OH

-


2,000

4,254


6,254

2,009



81 S. Stanfield
  Rd.

Troy, OH

-


16,730

-


16,730

6,074



512 Crescent
  Drive

Trumbull, CT

-

4,440

43,384

-

4,440

43,384

7,703



6949 Main Street

Tulsa, OK

-

3,003

6,025


3,003

6,045

3,432



3219 S. 79th E.
  Ave.

Tulsa, OK

-

1,390

7,110

1,102

1,390

8,212

1,708



7220 S. Yale
  Ave.

Tulsa, OK

-

1,320

10,087

-

1,320

10,087

1,529



7902 South Mingo
  Road East

Tulsa, OK

-

1,100

27,007

-

1,100

27,007




18001 East 51st
  Street

Tulsa, OK

13,000

1,752

28,421

-

1,752

28,421




701 W 71st
  Street South

Tulsa, OK

-


9,410

-


9,410




7210 South Yale
  Avenue

Tyler, TX

-


5,268

-


5,268

1,509



5550 Old
  Jacksonville Hwy.

Upper
  Providence, PA

-

1,900

28,195

-

1,900

28,195

1,968



1133 Black Rock
  Road

Vacaville, CA

-


17,100

1,651


18,751

6,462



799 Yellowstone
  Dr.

Vallejo, CA

-

4,000

18,000

2,344

4,030

20,315

6,950



350 Locust Dr.

Vallejo, CA

-

2,330

15,407


2,330

15,717

4,110



2261 Tuolumne

Valparaiso, IN

-


2,558

-


2,558

1,146



2601 Valparaiso
  St.

Valparaiso, IN

-


2,962

-


2,962

1,309



2501 Valparaiso
  St.

Vancouver, WA

-

1,820

19,042


1,821

19,311

4,822



10011 NE 118th
  Ave

Venice, FL

-

1,150

10,674

-

1,150

10,674

2,415



1600 Center Rd.

Vero Beach, FL

-


3,187

-


3,187

1,398



420 4th Ct.

Vero Beach, FL

-


3,263

-


3,263

1,441



410 4th Ct.

Virginia Beach,
  VA

-

1,540

22,593

-

1,540

22,593

1,996



5520 Indian
  River Rd

Voorhees, NJ

-

1,800

37,299


1,800

37,970

7,042



2601 Evesham
  Road

Voorhees, NJ

-

1,900

26,040


1,900

26,934

5,017



3001 Evesham
  Road

Voorhees, NJ

-

3,100

25,950


3,100

25,976

3,724



113 South Route

Voorhees, NJ

-

3,700

24,312

1,631

3,847

25,796

3,228



311 Route 73

Wabash, IN

-


14,588

-


14,588

1,381



20 John
  Kissinger Drive

Waconia, MN

-


14,726

4,495


19,221

3,073



500 Cherry
  Street

Wake Forest, NC

-


3,003

1,742


4,745

2,197



611 S. Brooks
  St.

Wall, NJ

-

1,650

25,350

2,499

1,692

27,807

4,554



2021 Highway 35

Walsall, UKG

-

1,184

8,562


1,299

9,389




Little Aston
  Road

Wamego, KS

-


2,510



2,565




1607 4th St

Wareham, MA

-


10,313

1,701


12,014

5,255



50 Indian Neck
  Rd.

Warren, NJ

-

2,000

30,810

1,014

2,000

31,824

5,165



274 King George
  Rd

Watchung, NJ

-

1,920

24,880

1,138

1,991

25,947

4,363



680 Mountain
  Boulevard

Waukee, IA

-

1,870

31,878

1,075

1,870

32,953

4,544



1650 SE Holiday
  Crest Circle

Waxahachie, TX

-


5,763

-


5,763

1,521



1329 Brown St.

Weatherford, TX

-


5,261

-


5,261

1,519



1818 Martin
  Drive

Wellingborough,
  UKF

-

1,480

5,724


1,623

6,277




159 Northampton

West Bend, WI

-


17,790



17,828

2,837



2130 Continental
  Dr

West Chester, PA

-

1,350

29,237


1,350

29,497

5,462



800 West Miner
  Street

West Orange, NJ

-

2,280

10,687


2,280

10,874

2,249



20 Summit Street

Westerville, OH

-


8,287

3,105


11,392

9,171



690 Cooper Rd.

Westfield, IN

-


15,964

-


15,964

1,499



937 E. 186th
  Street

Westfield, NJ

-

2,270

16,589


2,270

17,086

3,481



1515 Lamberts
  Mill Road

Weston Super
  Mare, UKK

-

2,517

7,054


2,760

7,736




141b Milton Road

White Lake, MI

-

2,920

20,179


2,920

20,271

3,951



935 Union Lake
  Rd

Wichita, KS

-

1,400

11,000

-

1,400

11,000

4,399



505 North Maize
  Road

Wichita, KS

-


8,873

-


8,873

1,527



10604 E 13th
  Street North

Wichita, KS

13,001


19,748

-


19,752

2,810



2050 North Webb
  Road

Wichita, KS

-


2,240



2,354




900 N Bayshore
  Dr

Wichita, KS

-


10,134

-


10,134

1,646



10600 E 13th
  Street North

Williamstown, KY

-


6,430

-


6,430

2,352



201 Kimberly
  Lane

Wilmington, DE

-


9,494



9,608

1,906



810 S Broom
  Street

Wilmington, NC

-


2,991

-


2,991

1,489



3501 Converse
  Dr.

Wilmington, NC

-


15,356

-


15,356

1,401



  Independence Blvd

Windsor, CT

-

2,250

8,539

1,855

2,250

10,394

2,104



One Emerson
  Drive

Windsor, CT

-

1,800



1,800

1,570




One Emerson
  Drive

Winston-Salem,
  NC

-


2,514



2,973

1,199



2980 Reynolda
  Rd.

Winter Garden,
  FL

-

1,110

7,937

-

1,110

7,937

1,145



720 Roper Road

Witherwack, UKC

-


6,915


1,035

7,583




Whitchurch Road

Wolverhampton,
  UKG

-

1,573

6,678


1,725

7,323




378 Prestonwood
  Road

Woodbury, MN

-

1,317

20,935

-

1,317

20,935




2195 Century
  Avenue South

Worcester, MA

-

3,500

54,099

-

3,500

54,099

11,586



101 Barry Road

Worcester, MA

-

2,300

9,060

6,000

2,300

15,060

3,152



378 Plantation
  St.

Wyncote, PA

-

2,700

22,244


2,700

22,518

4,282



1245 Church Road

York, UKE

-

2,961

8,266

1,085

3,247

9,064




Rosetta Way,
  Boroughbridge Road

Youngsville, NC

-


10,689

-


10,689




100 Sunset Drive

Zionsville, IN

$

-

$

1,610

$

22,400

$

1,691

$

1,610

$

24,091

$

4,523



11755 N Michigan
  Rd

Triple-net
  total

$

343,361

$

818,863

$

7,759,508

$

382,344

$

847,780

$

8,112,937

$

1,380,023



Welltower Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2017

(Dollars in
  thousands)

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of
  Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Building & Improvements

Cost Capitalized Subsequent to
  Acquisition

Land

Building & Improvements

Accumulated Depreciation

(1)

Year Acquired

Year Built

Address

Seniors
  housing operating:

Acton, MA

$

-

$

-

$

31,346

$

1,484

$


$

32,816

$

5,154



10 Devon Drive

Adderbury, UKJ

-

2,274

13,222

-

2,274

13,222




Banbury Road

Agawam, MA

-


10,044



10,636

2,802



153 Cardinal
  Drive

Albuquerque, NM

-

1,270

20,837

1,824

1,276

22,655

5,732



500 Paisano St
  NE

Alhambra, CA

-


6,305

9,025


15,330

1,776



1118 N. Stoneman
  Ave.

Altrincham, UKD

-

4,244

25,187

3,246

4,654

28,023

5,255



295 Hale Road

Amherstview, ON



4,446



5,152




4567 Bath Road

Arlington, VA

-

8,385

31,198

15,714

8,385

46,912

-



900 N Taylor
  Street

Arlington, TX

20,668

1,660

37,395

3,110

1,709

40,456

9,983



1250 West
  Pioneer Parkway

Arnprior, ON



6,283



7,152

1,435



15 Arthur Street

Atlanta, GA

-

2,100

20,603

1,167

2,154

21,717

3,478



1000 Lenox Park
  Blvd NE

Austin, TX

-

1,560

21,413


1,560

21,598

2,408



11330 Farrah
  Lane

Austin, TX

-

4,200

74,850


4,200

75,361

6,004



4310 Bee Caves
  Road

Avon, CT

-

1,550

30,571

3,806

1,588

34,339

9,420



101 Bickford
  Extension

Azusa, CA

-


3,141

7,769


10,910

3,003



125 W. Sierra
  Madre Ave.

Bagshot, UKJ

-

4,960

29,881

3,750

5,445

33,146

6,692



14 - 16 London
  Road

Banstead, UKJ

-

6,695

55,113

7,232

7,342

61,698

10,975



Croydon Lane

Basingstoke, UKJ

-

3,420

18,853

2,220

3,750

20,742

2,112



Grove Road

Basking Ridge,
  NJ

-

2,356

37,710

1,359

2,395

39,031

6,952



404 King George
  Road

Bassett, UKJ

-

4,874

32,304

5,617

5,358

37,436

7,099



111 Burgess Road

Bath, UKK

-

2,855

12,485

-

2,855

12,485




Clarks Way, Rush
  Hill

Baton Rouge, LA

9,017


29,436



29,996

5,264



9351 Siegen Lane

Beaconsfield,
  UKJ

-

5,566

50,952

5,591

6,115

55,993

9,757



30-34 Station
  Road

Beaconsfield, QC

-

1,149

17,484

2,304

1,335

19,602

4,833



505 Elm Avenue

Bedford, NH

-

2,527

28,748

2,105

2,548

30,832

4,927



5 Corporate
  Drive

Bee Cave, TX

-

1,820

21,084


1,820

21,792

1,755



14058 A Bee Cave
  Parkway

Bellevue, WA

-

2,800

19,004

2,072

2,816

21,060

4,586



15928 NE 8th
  Street

Belmont, CA

-

3,000

23,526

2,254

3,000

25,780

6,244



1301 Ralston
  Avenue

Belmont, CA

-

-

35,300

1,837


37,100

6,940



1010 Alameda de
  Las Pulgas

Berkeley, CA

12,433

3,050

32,677

3,757

3,050

36,434

3,323



2235 Sacramento
  Street

Bethesda, MD

-

-

45,309



45,900

8,359



8300 Burdett
  Road

Bethesda, MD

-

-



-





8300 Burdett
  Road

Bethesda, MD

-

-



-

1,083




8300 Burdett
  Road

Billerica, MA

-

1,619

21,381


1,624

22,130

2,501



20 Charnstaffe
  Lane

Birmingham, UKG

-


21,321

2,252


23,547

4,629



5 Church Road,
  Edgbaston

Birmingham, UKG

-

1,480

13,014

1,500

1,623

14,371




47 Bristol Road
  South

Birmingham, UKG

-

2,807

11,313

1,449

3,078

12,491




134 Jockey Road

Blainville, QC

-

2,077

8,902

1,398

2,306

10,071

2,907



50 des Chateaux
  Boulevard

Bloomfield
  Hills, MI

-

2,000

35,662


2,008

36,421

6,477



6790 Telegraph
  Road

Borehamwood, UKH

-

5,367

41,937

5,041

5,900

46,445

8,293



Edgwarebury Lane

Bothell, WA

-

1,350

13,439

4,808

1,361

18,237

1,626



10605 NE 185th
  Street

Boulder, CO

-

2,994

27,458

2,065

3,022

29,495

6,557



3955 28th Street

Bournemouth, UKK

-

5,527

42,547

5,311

6,061

47,324

6,943



42 Belle Vue
  Road

Braintree, MA

-

-

41,290



42,097

7,828



618 Granite
  Street

Brampton, ON

45,677

10,256

60,021

5,524

11,107

64,694

8,646



100 Ken Whillans
  Drive

Brighton, MA

9,911

2,100

14,616

1,391

2,109

15,998

4,149



50 Sutherland
  Road

Brockport, NY

-

1,500

23,496


1,705

23,794

3,164



90 West Avenue

Brockville, ON

4,808


7,445

1,040


8,426

1,034



1026 Bridlewood
  Drive

Brookfield, CT

-

2,250

30,180

2,422

2,262

32,590

8,207



246A Federal
  Road

Broomfield, CO

-

4,140

44,547

11,669

10,135

50,221

14,474



400 Summit Blvd

Brossard, QC

11,807

5,499

31,854

3,168

5,912

34,609

4,674



2455 Boulevard
  Rome

Buckingham, UKJ

-

2,979

13,880

1,764

3,267

15,356

2,047



Church Street

Buffalo Grove,
  IL

-

2,850

49,129

1,272

2,850

50,401

9,134



500 McHenry Road

Burbank, CA

-

4,940

43,466

1,324

4,940

44,790

9,465



455 E. Angeleno
  Avenue

Burbank, CA

19,593

3,610

50,817

3,284

3,610

54,101

4,187



2721 Willow
  Street

Burleson, TX

-

3,150

10,437


3,150

11,063

1,049



621 Old Highway

Burlingame, CA

-

-

62,786

-

-

62,786




1818 Trousdale
  Avenue

Burlington, ON

13,151

1,309

19,311

2,496

1,453

21,663

4,163



500 Appleby Line

Burlington, MA

-

2,443

34,354

1,350

2,522

35,626

6,963



24 Mall Road

Burlington, MA

-

2,750

57,488

3,167

2,750

60,655

3,673



50 Greenleaf Way

Calabasas, CA

-

-

6,438


-

7,415

5,256



25100 Calabasas
  Road

Calgary, AB

12,898

2,252

37,415

4,862

2,492

42,036

8,321



20 Promenade Way
  SE

Calgary, AB

14,751

2,793

41,179

4,956

3,098

45,831

8,857



80 Edenwold
  Drive NW

Calgary, AB

11,678

3,122

38,971

4,817

3,464

43,446

8,314



150 Scotia
  Landing NW

Calgary, AB

23,927

3,431

28,983

4,572

3,810

33,176

5,378



9229 16th Street
  SW

Calgary, AB

26,364

2,385

36,776

4,457

2,642

40,978

5,167



2220-162nd
  Avenue SW

Camberley, UKJ

-

2,654

5,736

19,242

7,914

19,717




Fernhill Road

Camberley, UKJ

-


3,164

-


3,164




Fernhill Road

Cardiff, UKL

-

3,191

12,566

1,786

3,499

14,043

3,315



127 Cyncoed Road

Cardiff by the
  Sea, CA

37,915

5,880

64,711

1,925

5,880

66,636

14,057



3535 Manchester
  Avenue

Carol Stream, IL

-

1,730

55,048

1,723

1,730

56,771

11,184



545 Belmont Lane

Carrollton, TX

-

4,280

31,444


4,280

32,385

3,353



2105 North Josey
  Lane

Cary, NC

-


45,240



45,875

7,154



1206 West
  Chatham Street

Cedar Park, TX

-

1,750

15,664


1,750

16,422




800 C-Bar Ranch
  Trail

Centerville, MA

-

1,300

27,357

1,113

1,324

28,446

6,327



22 Richardson
  Road

Cerritos, CA

-

-

27,494

5,633

-

33,127

3,641



11000 New Falcon
  Way

Chatham, ON

1,253

1,098

12,462

2,960

1,290

15,230

2,947



25 Keil Drive
  North

Chelmsford, MA

-

1,589

26,432

1,214

1,651

27,585

2,988



199 Chelmsford
  Street

Chertsey, UKJ

-

-


-

-


-



Bittams Lane

Chesterfield, MO

-

1,857

48,366

1,299

1,917

49,605

8,273



1880 Clarkson
  Road

Chorleywood, UKH

-

5,636

43,191

6,324

6,184

48,967

8,985



High View,
  Rickmansworth Road

Chula Vista, CA

-

2,072

22,163


2,128

22,970

4,259



3302 Bonita Road

Church Crookham,
  UKJ

-

2,591

14,215

1,832

2,855

15,783

2,283



Bourley Road

Cincinnati, OH

-

2,060

109,388

13,115

2,078

122,485

22,924



5445 Kenwood
  Road

Claremont, CA

-

2,430

9,928

1,375

2,483

11,249

2,373



2053 North Towne
  Avenue

Cohasset, MA

-

2,485

26,147

1,758

2,487

27,903

5,172



125 King Street
  (Rt 3A)

Colleyville, TX

-

1,050

17,082


1,050

17,122




8100 Precinct
  Line Road

Colorado
  Springs, CO

-


14,756

1,801

1,017

16,341

3,010



2105 University
  Park Boulevard

Concord, NH

-


21,164



21,893

4,812



300 Pleasant
  Street

Coquitlam, BC

10,477

3,047

24,567

3,268

3,375

27,507

6,467



1142 Dufferin
  Street

Costa Mesa, CA

-

2,050

19,969

1,320

2,050

21,289

5,139



350 West Bay St

Crystal Lake, IL

-


12,461

1,259


13,701

3,023



751 E Terra
  Cotta Avenue

Dallas, TX

-

6,330

114,794

1,199

6,330

115,993

10,306



3535 N Hall
  Street

Danvers, MA

-

1,120

14,557

1,045

1,145

15,576

3,873



1 Veronica Drive

Danvers, MA

-

2,203

28,761


2,257

28,983

3,667



9 Summer Street

Davenport, IA

-

1,403

35,893

3,632

1,480

39,448

9,192



4500 Elmore Ave.

Decatur, GA

-

1,946

26,575

2,080

1,946

28,656

5,798



920 Clairemont
  Avenue

Denver, CO

12,033

1,450

19,389

3,119

1,470

22,489

4,114



4901 South
  Monaco Street

Denver, CO

-

2,910

35,838

1,459

2,962

37,246

8,399



8101 E
  Mississippi Avenue

Dix Hills, NY

-

3,808

39,014

1,430

3,824

40,428

7,473



337 Deer Park
  Road

Dollard-Des-Ormeaux,
  QC

-

1,957

14,431

1,982

2,222

16,149

4,757



4377 St. Jean
  Blvd

Dresher, PA

6,966

1,900

10,664


1,914

11,547

3,259



1650 Susquehanna
  Road

Dublin, OH

-

1,680

43,423

6,429

1,847

49,685

12,524



6470 Post Rd

Dublin, OH

-

1,169

25,345

-

1,169

25,345




4175 Stoneridge
  Lane

East Haven, CT

-

2,660

35,533

3,109

2,681

38,621

11,385



111 South Shore
  Drive

East Meadow, NY

-


45,991

1,360


47,296

8,545



1555 Glen
  Curtiss Boulevard

East Setauket,
  NY

-

4,920

37,354

1,349

4,975

38,648

7,038



1 Sunrise Drive

Eastbourne, UKJ

-

4,145

33,744

3,892

4,557

37,224

7,009



6 Upper Kings
  Drive

Edgbaston, UKG

-

2,720

13,969

1,680

2,983

15,386

1,130



Pershore Road

Edgewater, NJ

-

4,561

25,047

1,349

4,564

26,393

5,108



351 River Road

Edison, NJ

-

1,892

32,314

1,463

1,905

33,764

8,522



1801 Oak Tree
  Road

Edmonds, WA

-

1,650

24,449

2,665

1,651

27,113

2,679



21500 72nd
  Avenue West

Edmonton, AB

9,439

1,589

29,819

3,890

1,778

33,520

6,718



103 Rabbit Hill
  Court NW

Edmonton, AB

12,242

2,063

37,293

4,948

2,281

42,023

10,604



10015 103rd
  Avenue NW

Encinitas, CA

-

1,460

7,721

2,946

1,460

10,667

4,504



335 Saxony Rd.

Encino, CA

-

5,040

46,255

1,930

5,040

48,185

9,720



15451 Ventura
  Boulevard

Escondido, CA

-

1,520

24,024

1,358

1,520

25,382

6,200



1500 Borden Rd

Esher, UKJ

-

5,783

48,361

5,320

6,346

53,118

9,005



42 Copsem Lane

Fairfax, VA

-


2,678



2,883




9207 Arlington
  Boulevard

Fairfield, NJ

-

3,120

43,868

1,125

3,175

44,937

8,407



47 Greenbrook
  Road

Fareham, UKJ

-

3,408

17,970

2,324

3,743

19,960

2,442



Redlands Lane

Flossmoor, IL

-

1,292

9,496

1,633

1,339

11,082

2,631



19715 Governors
  Highway

Folsom, CA

-

1,490

32,754


1,490

32,791

3,354



1574 Creekside
  Drive

Fort Worth, TX

-

2,080

27,888

3,638

2,093

31,513

7,915



2151 Green Oaks
  Road

Fort Worth, TX

-

1,740

19,799

1,012

1,740

20,811

1,610



7001 Bryant
  Irvin Road

Franklin, MA

-

2,430

30,597

2,484

2,458

33,053

5,582



4 Forge Hill
  Road

Frome, UKK

-

2,720

14,813

1,861

2,983

16,411

1,747



Welshmill Lane

Fullerton, CA

-

1,964

19,989


1,998

20,792

4,094



2226 North
  Euclid Street

Gahanna, OH

-


11,214

1,337


12,537

2,302



775 East
  Johnstown Road

Gilbert, AZ

15,747

2,160

28,246


2,176

29,179

7,465



580 S. Gilbert
  Road

Gilroy, CA

-


13,880

24,812

1,578

37,875

10,084



7610 Isabella
  Way

Glen Cove, NY

-

4,594

35,236

1,661

4,634

36,857

8,125



39 Forest Avenue

Glenview, IL

-

2,090

69,288

2,757

2,090

72,045

13,683



2200 Golf Road

Golden Valley,
  MN

19,022

1,520

33,513

1,126

1,545

34,614

6,045



4950 Olson
  Memorial Highway

Granbury, TX

-

2,040

30,670


2,040

31,172

5,475



100 Watermark
  Boulevard

Grimsby, ON

-


5,617



6,348




84 Main Street
  East

Grosse Pointe
  Woods, MI

-


13,662



14,156

2,422



1850 Vernier
  Road

Grosse Pointe
  Woods, MI

-

1,430

31,777


1,435

32,734

5,626



21260 Mack
  Avenue

Guelph, ON

4,486

1,190

7,597

1,183

1,333

8,638

1,432



165 Cole Road

Guildford, UKJ

-

5,361

56,494

6,278

5,879

62,254

10,783



Astolat Way,
  Peasmarsh

Gurnee, IL

-


27,931

1,900


29,786

4,857



500 North Hunt
  Club Road

Hamden, CT

-

1,460

24,093

1,698

1,487

25,764

6,780



35 Hamden Hills
  Drive

Hampshire, UKJ

-

4,172

26,035

3,010

4,584

28,633

5,267



22-26 Church
  Road

Haverhill, MA

-

1,720

50,046


1,723

51,010

6,411



254 Amesbury
  Road

Henderson, NV

-


29,809



30,437

5,605



1935 Paseo Verde
  Parkway

Henderson, NV

-

1,190

11,600


1,252

12,312

3,374



1555 West
  Horizon Ridge Parkway

High Wycombe,
  UKJ

-

3,784

14,191

-

3,784

14,191




The Row Lane End

Highland Park,
  IL

-

2,250

25,313

1,223

2,265

26,521

5,662



1601 Green Bay
  Road

Hingham, MA

-

1,440

32,292


1,440

32,467

3,666



1 Sgt. William B
  Terry Drive

Holbrook, NY

-

3,957

35,337

1,109

4,021

36,382

6,615



320 Patchogue
  Holbrook Road

Horley, UKJ

-

2,332

12,144

1,521

2,565

13,432

1,981



Court Lodge Road

Houston, TX

-

3,830

55,674

6,489

3,830

62,163

13,392



2929 West
  Holcombe Boulevard

Houston, TX

16,922

1,040

31,965

5,561

1,049

37,517

7,104



505 Bering Drive

Houston, TX

-

1,750

15,603

1,264

1,750

16,867




10120 Louetta
  Road

Huntington Beach, CA

-

3,808

31,172

2,429

3,886

33,523

7,290



7401 Yorktown
  Avenue

Irving, TX

-

1,030

6,823

1,508

1,030

8,331

2,428



8855 West Valley
  Ranch Parkway

Johns Creek, GA

-

1,580

23,285


1,588

23,863

4,448



11405 Medlock
  Bridge Road

Kanata, ON

-

1,689

28,670

2,642

1,812

31,189

5,491



70 Stonehaven
  Drive

Kansas City, MO

-

1,820

34,898

4,570

1,845

39,443

10,363



12100 Wornall
  Road

Kansas City, MO

5,620

1,930

39,997

4,369

1,963

44,333

11,808



6500 North Cosby
  Ave

Kansas City, MO

-


23,962



24,131

2,418



6460 North Cosby
  Avenue

Kelowna, BC

5,942

2,688

13,647

2,103

2,984

15,453

3,689



863 Leon Avenue

Kennebunk, ME

-

2,700

30,204

4,739

3,200

34,442

11,037



One Huntington
  Common Drive

Kingston, ON

4,767

1,030

11,416

1,637

1,154

12,928

1,574



181 Ontario
  Street

Kingwood, TX

-


9,777

1,080


10,857

2,524



22955 Eastex
  Freeway

Kingwood, TX

-

1,683

24,207

2,448

1,683

26,655




24025 Kingwood
  Place

Kirkland, WA

24,600

3,450

38,709


3,515

39,491

7,883



14 Main Street
  South

Kitchener, ON

1,514


2,744



3,138




164 - 168 Ferfus
  Avenue

Kitchener, ON

4,833

1,130

9,939

1,367

1,267

11,169

2,307



20 Fieldgate
  Street

Kitchener, ON

3,682

1,093

7,327

1,030

1,212

8,239

2,164



290 Queen Street
  South

Kitchener, ON

13,681

1,341

13,939

4,064

1,443

17,901

1,974



1250 Weber
  Street E

La Palma, CA

-

2,950

16,591


2,966

17,398

3,346



5321 La Palma
  Avenue

Lafayette Hill,
  PA

-

1,750

11,848

2,214

1,867

13,945

3,430



429 Ridge Pike

Laguna Hills, CA

-

12,820

75,926

11,912

12,820

87,838

6,020



24903 Moulton
  Parkway

Laguna Woods, CA

-

11,280

76,485

9,929

11,280

86,414

6,754



24441 Calle
  Sonora

Laguna Woods, CA

-

9,150

57,842

6,364

9,150

64,206

5,550



24962 Calle
  Aragon

Lake Zurich, IL

-

1,470

9,830

2,940

1,470

12,770

4,074



550 America
  Court

Lawrenceville,
  GA

-

1,500

29,003


1,508

29,672

5,615



1375 Webb Gin
  House Road

Leatherhead, UKJ

-

4,967

18,859

-

4,967

18,859




Rectory Lane

Leawood, KS

15,021

2,490

32,493

3,799

5,690

33,091

7,993



4400 West 115th
  Street

Lenexa, KS

9,396


26,251



27,173

5,665



15055 West 87th
  Street Parkway

Leominster, MA

-


23,164



23,763

2,958



1160 Main Street

Lincroft, NJ

-


19,958

1,453


21,391

3,979



734 Newman
  Springs Road

Lombard, IL

16,297

2,130

59,943

1,390

2,147

61,316

10,789



2210 Fountain
  Square Dr

London, UKI

-

3,121

10,027

1,459

3,428

11,179

1,391



71 Hatch Lane

London, ON



8,228

1,425

1,122

9,517

1,321



760 Horizon
  Drive

London, ON

12,381

1,969

16,985

2,873

2,177

19,650

2,795



1486 Richmond
  Street North

London, ON

-

1,445

13,631

1,944

1,689

15,331

1,917



81 Grand Avenue

Longueuil, QC

10,257

3,992

23,711

4,195

4,469

27,428

3,623



70 Rue Levis

Los Angeles, CA

-

-

11,430

2,124

-

13,554

3,397



330 North
  Hayworth Avenue

Los Angeles, CA

61,460

-

114,438

1,908

-

116,346

25,572



10475 Wilshire
  Boulevard

Los Angeles, CA

-

3,540

19,007

2,250

3,540

21,257

4,179



2051 N. Highland
  Avenue

Los Angeles, CA

-

-

28,050

1,960

-

30,010

2,169



4061 Grand View
  Boulevard

Louisville, KY

-

2,420

20,816

1,505

2,420

22,321

4,614



4600 Bowling
  Boulevard

Louisville, KY

10,775

1,600

20,326


1,600

20,973

4,334



6700 Overlook
  Drive

Lynnfield, MA

-

3,165

45,200

2,027

3,165

47,226

8,848



55 Salem Street

Malvern, PA

-

1,651

17,194

1,803

1,739

18,910

4,875



324 Lancaster
  Avenue

Mansfield, MA

-

3,320

57,011

8,265

3,447

65,149

15,871



25 Cobb
  Street

Maple Ridge, BC

9,158

2,875

11,922

1,158

3,095

12,860

1,306



12241 224th
  Street

Marieville, QC

7,008

1,278

12,113

1,138

1,419

13,110

1,453



425 rue Claude
  de Ramezay

Markham, ON

41,037

3,727

48,939

6,060

4,161

54,564

13,923



7700 Bayview
  Avenue

Marlboro, NJ

-

2,222

14,888

1,058

2,250

15,918

3,273



3A South Main
  Street

Medicine Hat, AB

11,543

1,432

14,141

1,390

1,591

15,372

2,746



223 Park Meadows
  Drive SE

Melbourne, FL

-

7,070

48,257

28,853

7,070

77,110

14,328



7300 Watersong
  Lane

Memphis, TN

-

1,800

17,744

1,477

1,800

19,221

4,957



6605 Quail
  Hollow Road

Meriden, CT

-

1,500

14,874

1,103

1,538

15,940

5,185



511 Kensington
  Avenue

Metairie, LA

12,773


27,708



28,372

4,812



3732 West
  Esplanade Ave. S

Middletown, CT

-

1,430

24,242

1,487

1,441

25,717

6,965



645 Saybrook
  Road

Middletown, RI

-

2,480

24,628

1,777

2,511

26,373

7,065



303 Valley Road

Milford, CT

-

3,210

17,364

1,835

3,233

19,176

5,738



77 Plains
  Road

Milton, ON

15,391

4,542

25,321

4,512

5,039

29,335

3,036



611 Farmstead
  Drive

Minnetonka, MN

13,654

2,080

24,360

2,289

2,376

26,353

5,430



500 Carlson
  Parkway

Minnetonka, MN

15,651


29,344



30,112

5,056



18605 Old
  Excelsior Blvd.

Mission Viejo,
  CA

14,118

6,600

52,118

5,565

6,600

57,683

4,621



27783 Center
  Drive

Mississauga, ON

9,409

1,602

17,996

2,334

1,771

20,161

4,016



1130 Bough
  Beeches Boulevard

Mississauga, ON

3,169


4,655



5,290

1,091



  Constitution Boulevard

Mississauga, ON

30,008

3,649

35,137

4,715

4,053

39,449

7,892



1490 Rathburn
  Road East

Mississauga, ON

6,471

2,548

15,158

3,195

2,817

18,085

2,977



85 King Street
  East

Mobberley, UKD

-

5,146

26,665

3,417

5,654

29,573

6,980



Barclay Park,
  Hall Lane

Monterey, CA

-

6,440

29,101


6,440

30,043

5,624



1110 Cass St.

Montgomery
  Village, MD

-

3,530

18,246

6,448

4,187

24,037

7,944



19310 Club House
  Road

Moose Jaw, SK

2,476


12,973

1,925


14,837

2,931



425 4th Avenue
  NW

Murphy, TX

-

1,950

19,182


1,950

19,960

1,214



304 West FM 544

Mystic, CT

-

1,400

18,274


1,427

19,201

5,096



20 Academy Lane 
  Mystic

Naperville, IL

-

1,550

12,237

2,283

1,550

14,520

3,380



1936 Brookdale
  Road

Naperville, IL

-

1,540

28,204

1,178

1,546

29,377

5,687



535 West Ogden
  Avenue

Naples, FL

57,022

8,989

119,398

4,088

9,074

123,401

15,758



4800 Aston
  Gardens Way

Nashua, NH

-

1,264

43,026


1,264

43,637

4,311



674 West Hollis
  Street

Nashville, TN

-

3,900

35,788

2,198

3,900

37,986

9,120



4206 Stammer
  Place

Needham, MA

-

1,240

32,992

1,186

1,240

34,178

1,952



880 Greendale
  Avenue

Nepean, ON

6,045

1,575

5,770

1,038

1,757

6,626

1,377



1 Mill Hill Road

New Braunfels,
  TX

-

1,200

19,800

10,296

2,729

28,567

4,142



2294 East Common
  Street

Newbury, UKJ

-

2,850

12,796

1,591

3,125

14,111




370 London Road

Newburyport, MA

-

1,750

29,187

1,162

1,750

30,350

1,855



4 Wallace Bashaw
  Junior Way

Newmarket, UKH

-

4,071

11,902

1,806

4,471

13,308

1,702



Jeddah Way

Newton, MA

-

2,250

43,614

1,116

2,263

44,717

10,785



2300 Washington
  Street

Newton, MA

15,227

2,500

30,681

2,367

2,521

33,027

8,396



280 Newtonville
  Avenue

Newton, MA

-

3,360

25,099

1,618

3,385

26,692

7,199



430 Centre
  Street

Newtown Square,
  PA

-

1,930

14,420

1,041

1,941

15,450

4,093



333 S. Newtown
  Street Rd.

Niagara Falls,
  ON

7,109

1,225

7,963

1,272

1,355

9,105

1,340



7860 Lundy's
  Lane

Niantic, CT

-

1,320

25,986

4,432

1,334

30,404

6,405



417 Main Street

North Andover,
  MA

-

1,960

34,976

1,780

2,092

36,624

8,965



700 Chickering
  Road

North
  Chelmsford, MA

-


18,478



19,342

4,544



2 Technology
  Drive

North Dartmouth,
  MA

-

1,700

35,337

1,628

1,700

36,965

2,298



239 Cross Road

North Tustin, CA

-

2,880

18,059


2,975

18,788

3,056



12291 Newport
  Avenue

Oak Park, IL

-

1,250

40,383

1,496

1,250

41,879

8,350



1035 Madison
  Street

Oakland, CA

-

3,877

47,508

2,965

3,901

50,449

9,458



11889 Skyline
  Boulevard

Oakton, VA

-

2,250

37,576

1,983

2,300

39,509

7,200



2863 Hunter Mill
  Road

Oakville, ON

6,158

1,252

7,382


1,392

8,239

1,733



289 and 299
  Randall Street

Oakville, ON

10,439

2,134

29,963

4,098

2,363

33,832

7,199



25 Lakeshore
  Road West

Oakville, ON

5,462

1,271

13,754

1,924

1,405

15,543

2,791



345 Church
  Street

Oceanside, CA

-

2,160

18,352

3,776

2,210

22,078

5,314



3500 Lake
  Boulevard

Okotoks, AB

19,493


20,943

2,475


23,342

3,412



51 Riverside
  Gate

Oshawa, ON

3,144


7,570

1,252


8,700

1,774



649 King Street
  East

Ottawa, ON

10,658

1,341

15,425

2,752

1,520

17,998

1,930



110 Berrigan
  Drive

Ottawa, ON

19,984

3,454

23,309

3,639

3,872

26,530

6,517



2370 Carling
  Avenue

Ottawa, ON

22,945

4,305

39,106

3,494

4,632

42,274

5,449



751 Peter Morand
  Crescent

Ottawa, ON

7,940

2,103

18,421

4,560

2,345

22,739

2,719



1 Eaton Street

Ottawa, ON

15,092

2,963

26,424

4,480

3,294

30,571

3,225



691 Valin Street

Ottawa, ON

11,412

1,561

18,170

2,770

1,762

20,738

2,116



22 Barnstone
  Drive

Ottawa, ON

14,405

3,403

31,090

4,983

3,775

35,702

3,631



990 Hunt Club
  Road

Ottawa, ON

19,417

3,411

28,335

7,128

3,799

35,075

4,910



2 Valley Stream
  Drive

Ottawa, ON

3,112


4,710



5,339

1,122



1345 Ogilvie
  Road

Ottawa, ON

2,266


2,165

1,502


3,732




370 Kennedy Lane

Ottawa, ON

10,914

2,809

27,299

3,891

3,109

30,890

7,089



43 Aylmer Avenue

Ottawa, ON

4,994

1,156

9,758

1,408

1,336

10,987

2,038



1351 Hunt Club
  Road

Ottawa, ON

6,500


7,800

1,211


8,926

1,739



140 Darlington
  Private

Ottawa, ON

9,796

1,176

12,764

1,941

1,320

14,560

1,649



10 Vaughan
  Street

Overland Park,
  KS

3,336

1,540

16,269

1,331

1,728

17,413

3,549



9201 Foster

Palo Alto, CA

16,217

-

39,639

2,696


42,311

7,559



2701 El Camino
  Real

Paramus, NJ

-

2,840

35,728

1,566

2,903

37,231

6,566



567 Paramus Road

Parkland, FL

56,604

4,880

111,481

3,276

4,885

114,751

15,436



5999 University
  Drive

Peabody, MA

6,117

2,250

16,071


2,324

16,992

2,353



73 Margin Street

Pembroke, ON

-

1,931

9,427

1,075

2,071

10,362

1,804



1111 Pembroke
  Street West

Pittsburgh, PA

-

1,580

18,017


1,587

18,817

3,881



900 Lincoln Club
  Dr.

Placentia, CA

-

8,480

17,076

2,448

8,480

19,525

2,402



1180 N Bradford
  Avenue

Plainview, NY

-

3,066

19,901


3,182

20,549

3,521



1231 Old Country
  Road

Plano, TX

27,671

3,120

59,950

2,205

3,173

62,102

14,899



4800 West Parker
  Road

Plano, TX

-

1,750

15,390

1,660

1,750

17,051

1,053



3690 Mapleshade
  Lane

Playa Vista, CA

-

1,580

40,531

1,029

1,605

41,536

7,854



5555 Playa Vista
  Drive

Plymouth, MA

-

1,444

34,951


1,444

35,648

4,039



157 South Street

Plymouth, MA

13,462

2,550

35,055

2,123

2,550

37,178

2,440



60 Stafford Hill

Port Perry, ON

9,905

3,685

26,788

5,059

4,079

31,453

2,988



15987 Simcoe
  Street

Port St. Lucie,
  FL

-

8,700

47,230

20,372

8,700

67,602

11,380



10685 SW Stony
  Creek Way

Providence, RI

-

2,655

21,910


2,655

22,230

8,980



700 Smith Street

Purley, UKI

-

7,365

35,161

4,583

8,077

39,033

8,201



21 Russell Hill
  Road

Queensbury, NY

-

1,260

21,744


1,260

22,708

2,401



27 Woodvale Road

Quincy, MA

-

1,350

12,584


1,428

13,337

3,635



2003 Falls
  Boulevard

Rancho
  Cucamonga, CA

-

1,480

10,055

1,141

1,567

11,109

2,568



9519 Baseline
  Road

Rancho Palos
  Verdes, CA

-

5,450

60,034

2,023

5,450

62,057

12,432



5701 Crestridge
  Road

Randolph, NJ

-

1,540

46,934


1,570

47,703

8,586



648 Route 10
  West

Red Deer, AB

13,102

1,247

19,283

2,324

1,379

21,476

2,820



3100 - 22 Street

Red Deer, AB

15,419

1,199

22,339

2,756

1,328

24,966

3,330



10 Inglewood
  Drive

Redondo Beach,
  CA

-

-

9,557


-

10,435

5,609



514 North
  Prospect Ave

Regina, SK

7,115

1,485

21,148

2,618

1,662

23,590

5,180



3651 Albert
  Street

Regina, SK

6,980

1,244

21,036

2,720

1,380

23,620

4,380



3105 Hillsdale
  Street

Regina, SK

16,884

1,539

24,053

4,834

1,704

28,722

3,385



1801 McIntyre
  Street

Renton, WA

20,790

3,080

51,824

1,123

3,119

52,908

10,446



104 Burnett
  Avenue South

Ridgefield, CT

-

3,100

80,614

4,737

3,150

85,302

11,313



640 Danbury Road

Riviere-du-Loup,
  QC

3,326


7,601



8,489




35 des Cedres

Riviere-du-Loup,
  QC

9,515

1,454

16,848

4,901

1,700

21,503

2,890



230-235 rue Des
  Chenes

Rocky Hill, CT

-


16,351



16,995

4,150



1160 Elm Street

Romeoville, IL

-


12,646

60,571

6,174

67,897

14,427



605 S Edward Dr.

Roseville, MN

-

1,540

35,877


1,607

36,741

6,269



2555 Snelling
  Avenue, North

Roseville, CA

-

3,300

41,652

3,235

3,300

44,886

3,868



5161 Foothills
  Boulevard

Roswell, GA

-

2,080

6,486

1,558

2,385

7,739

1,891



75 Magnolia
  Street

Sacramento, CA

-

1,300

23,394

1,226

1,334

24,587

4,343



345 Munroe
  Street

Saint-Lambert,
  QC

37,529

10,259

61,903

5,961

11,414

66,709

10,015



1705 Avenue
  Victoria

Salem, NH

-


32,721

4,181

1,054

36,828

7,726



242 Main Street

Salinas, CA

-

5,110

41,424

5,493

5,110

46,916

4,462



1320 Padre Drive

Salisbury, UKK

-

2,720

15,269

1,820

2,983

16,826

1,636



Shapland Close

Salt Lake City,
  UT

-

1,360

19,691

1,949

1,360

21,640

6,685



1430 E. 4500 S.

San Antonio, TX

-

6,120

28,169

2,482

6,120

30,651

5,207



2702 Cembalo
  Blvd

San Antonio, TX

-

5,045

58,048

3,129

5,045

61,177




11300 Wild Pine

San Diego, CA

-

4,200

30,707


4,243

31,177

4,952



2567 Second
  Avenue

San Diego, CA

-

5,810

63,078

2,329

5,810

65,407

15,249



13075 Evening
  Creek Drive S

San Diego, CA

-

3,000

27,164


3,000

27,927

4,709



810 Turquoise
  Street

San Francisco,
  CA

-

5,920

91,639

11,529

5,920

103,168

7,666



1550 Sutter
  Street

San Francisco,
  CA

-

11,800

77,214

9,132

11,800

86,346

6,679



1601 19th Avenue

San Gabriel, CA

-

3,120

15,566


3,138

16,407

3,283



8332 Huntington
  Drive

San Jose, CA

-

2,850

35,098


2,858

35,690

7,052



1420 Curvi Drive

San Jose, CA

-

3,280

46,823

2,355

3,280

49,178

9,756



500 S Winchester
  Boulevard

San Jose, CA

-

11,900

27,647

3,271

11,900

30,918

3,497



4855 San Felipe
  Road

San Juan
  Capistrano, CA

-

1,390

6,942

1,491

1,390

8,433

3,634



30311 Camino
  Capistrano

San Rafael, CA

-

1,620

27,392

1,960

1,635

29,337

2,597



111 Merrydale
  Road

San Ramon, CA

-

8,700

72,223

6,745

8,700

78,968

6,181



9199 Fircrest
  Lane

Sandy Springs,
  GA

-

2,214

8,360


2,220

9,030

2,404



5455 Glenridge
  Drive NE

Santa Maria, CA

-

6,050

50,658

2,966

6,089

53,585

13,408



1220 Suey Road

Santa Monica, CA

19,149

5,250

28,340


5,263

29,196

5,352



1312 15th Street

Santa Rosa, CA

-

2,250

26,273

2,094

2,250

28,367

2,623



4225 Wayvern
  Drive

Saskatoon, SK

4,390


13,905

1,778

1,084

15,580

2,760



220 24th Street
  East

Saskatoon, SK

14,740

1,382

17,609

2,272

1,528

19,735

3,435



1622 Acadia
  Drive

Schaumburg, IL

-

2,460

22,863

1,060

2,486

23,896

5,198



790 North Plum
  Grove Road

Scottsdale, AZ

-

2,500

3,890

1,704

2,500

5,594

1,583



9410 East
  Thunderbird Road

Seal Beach, CA

-

6,204

72,954

1,757

6,271

74,644

17,334



3850 Lampson
  Avenue

Seattle, WA

48,540

6,790

85,369

2,520

6,825

87,854

17,947



5300 24th Avenue
  NE

Seattle, WA

-

1,150

19,887

1,032

1,150

20,919

2,119



11039 17th
  Avenue

Sevenoaks, UKJ

-

6,181

40,240

5,956

6,778

45,599

9,281



64 - 70
  Westerham Road

Severna Park, MD

-

-

67,623

5,264


72,882

7,069



43 W McKinsey
  Road

Shelburne, VT

-


31,041

1,921


32,904

7,180



687 Harbor Road

Shelby Township,
  MI

15,894

1,040

26,344

1,170

1,100

27,453

4,716



46471 Hayes Road

Shelton, CT

-

2,246

33,967

-

2,246

33,967

1,839



708A Bridgeport
  Avenue

Shrewsbury, MA

-


26,824

1,315


28,139

3,286



3111 Main Street

Sidcup, UKI

-

7,446

56,570

6,802

8,183

62,636

14,212



Frognal Avenue

Simi Valley, CA

-

3,200

16,664


3,238

17,524

4,377



190 Tierra
  Rejada Road

Simi Valley, CA

-

5,510

51,406

6,469

5,510

57,875

4,891



5300 E Los
  Angeles Avenue

Solihull, UKG

-

5,070

43,297

5,457

5,560

48,264

9,412



1270 Warwick
  Road

Solihull, UKG

-

3,571

26,053

3,191

3,917

28,899

5,786



1 Worcester Way

Solihull, UKG

-

1,851

10,585

1,263

2,029

11,670




Warwick Road

Sonning, UKJ

-

5,644

42,155

5,197

6,189

46,807

8,529



Old Bath Rd.

Sonoma, CA

-

2,820

21,890

1,879

2,820

23,769

2,202



91 Napa Road

South Windsor,
  CT

-

3,000

29,295

2,870

3,104

32,061

8,587



432 Buckland
  Road

Spokane, WA

-

3,200

25,064


3,271

25,612

6,718



3117 E. Chaser
  Lane

Spokane, WA

-

2,580

25,342


2,639

25,682

5,571



1110 E. Westview
  Ct.

St. Albert, AB

8,701

1,145

17,863

3,003

1,266

20,745

5,136



78C McKenney
  Avenue

St. John's, NL

6,222


11,765

1,081


12,795

1,308



64 Portugal Cove
  Road

Stittsville, ON

4,848

1,175

17,397

2,286

1,299

19,559

3,456



1340 - 1354 Main
  Street

Stockport, UKD

-

4,369

25,018

3,041

4,791

27,637

6,015



1 Dairyground
  Road

Studio City, CA

-

4,006

25,307


4,071

26,230

5,707



4610 Coldwater
  Canyon Avenue

Sugar Land, TX

-


31,423

1,723


33,146

8,437



1221 Seventh St

Sugar Land, TX

-

4,272

60,493

6,497

4,272

66,989




744 Brooks
  Street

Sun City, FL

21,294

6,521

48,476

3,655

6,622

52,030

8,661



231 Courtyards

Sun City, FL

23,992

5,040

50,923

3,365

5,338

53,990

8,143



1311 Aston
  Gardens Court

Sun City West,
  AZ

11,780

1,250

21,778

1,123

1,274

22,877

4,311



13810 West
  Sandridge Drive

Sunnyvale, CA

-

5,420

41,682

1,995

5,420

43,677

8,985



1039 East El
  Camino Real

Surrey, BC

7,228

3,605

18,818

2,900

3,985

21,338

5,675



16028 83rd
  Avenue

Surrey, BC

17,047

4,552

22,338

3,780

5,045

25,625

7,201



15501 16th
  Avenue

Sutton, UKI

-

4,096

14,532

1,872

4,492

16,009




123 Westmead
  Road

Suwanee, GA

-

1,560

11,538


1,560

12,380

2,876



4315 Johns Creek
  Parkway

Sway, UKJ

-

4,145

15,508

2,094

4,596

17,151

2,722



Sway Place

Swift Current,
  SK

2,228


10,119

1,315


11,376

2,236



301 Macoun Drive

Tacoma, WA

17,760

2,400

35,053


2,459

35,579

7,107



7290 Rosemount
  Circle

Tacoma, WA

-

1,535

6,068


1,537

6,125




7290 Rosemount
  Circle

Tacoma, WA

-

4,170

73,377

8,824

4,170

82,201

6,113



8201 6th Avenue

Tampa, FL

69,330

4,910

114,148

3,636

4,962

117,732

15,060



12951 W
  Linebaugh Avenue

Tewksbury, MA

-

2,350

24,118

1,985

2,350

26,104

1,826



2000 Emerald
  Court

The Woodlands,
  TX

-


12,379



13,203

3,065



7950 Bay Branch
  Dr

Toledo, OH

-

2,040

47,129

3,358

2,144

50,383

13,525



3501 Executive
  Parkway

Toronto, ON

18,615

2,927

20,713

3,327

3,266

23,701

2,802



54 Foxbar Road

Toronto, ON

9,662

5,082

25,493

3,817

5,624

28,767

5,008



645 Castlefield
  Avenue

Toronto, ON

13,959

2,040

19,822

1,608

2,188

21,282

2,737



4251 Dundas
  Street West

Toronto, ON

40,768

5,132

41,657

7,208

5,674

48,322

9,699



10 William
  Morgan Drive

Toronto, ON

4,650

2,480

7,571

1,343

2,742

8,652

1,638



123 Spadina Road

Toronto, ON

1,439

1,079

5,364


1,193

6,094

1,170



25 Centennial
  Park Road

Toronto, ON

8,587

2,513

19,695

2,814

2,815

22,208

3,535



305 Balliol
  Street

Toronto, ON

19,525

3,400

32,757

4,524

3,764

36,917

7,504



1055 and 1057
  Don Mills Road

Toronto, ON


1,361

2,915


1,528

3,415

1,139



3705 Bathurst
  Street

Toronto, ON

6,355

1,447

3,918


1,600

4,490

1,107



1340 York Mills
  Road

Toronto, ON

34,411

5,304

53,488

7,151

5,869

60,074

15,630



8 The Donway
  East

Torrance, CA

-

3,497

73,138

-

3,497

73,138




25525 Hawthorne
  Boulevard

Trumbull, CT

-

2,850

37,685

2,058

2,935

39,657

10,412



2750 Reservoir
  Avenue

Tucson, AZ

4,436


6,179

3,732


9,827

1,801



5660 N. Kolb
  Road

Tulsa, OK

-

1,330

21,285

3,767

1,350

25,032

6,186



8887 South Lewis
  Ave

Tulsa, OK

-

1,500

20,861

3,455

1,581

24,235

6,334



9524 East 71st
  St

Tustin, CA

-


15,299



16,015

3,409



240 East 3rd St

Upland, CA

-

3,160

42,596


3,160

42,610

4,098



2419 North
  Euclid Avenue

Upper St Claire,
  PA

-

1,102

13,455


1,102

14,330

3,267



500 Village
  Drive

Vancouver, BC

-

7,934

6,875

-

7,934

6,875

5,704



2803 West 41st
  Avenue

Vankleek Hill,
  ON



2,960



3,466




48 Wall Street

Vaudreuil, QC

8,744

1,852

14,214

1,844

1,993

15,917

1,932



333 rue Querbes

Venice, FL

64,425

6,820

100,501

3,093

6,872

103,542

14,087



1000 Aston
  Gardens Drive

Vero Beach, FL

-

2,930

40,070

25,412

2,930

65,482

14,513



7955 16th Manor

Victoria, BC

7,752

2,856

18,038

2,502

3,157

20,238

4,544



3000 Shelbourne
  Street

Victoria, BC

7,147

3,681

15,774

2,273

4,070

17,658

4,125



3051 Shelbourne
  Street

Victoria, BC

8,015

2,476

15,379

2,591

2,741

17,705

1,829



3965 Shelbourne
  Street

Virginia Water,
  UKJ

-

7,106

29,937

6,182

5,943

37,281

7,286



Christ Church
  Road

Walnut Creek, CA

-

3,700

12,467

1,695

3,794

14,067

3,603



2175 Ygnacio
  Valley Road

Walnut Creek, CA

-

10,320

100,890

10,385

10,320

111,275

8,442



1580 Geary Road

Waltham, MA

-

2,462

40,062

1,355

2,536

41,344

5,437



126 Smith Street

Warwick, RI

-

2,400

24,635

2,407

2,407

27,036

7,952



75 Minnesota
  Avenue

Washington, DC

30,841

4,000

69,154

2,023

4,002

71,175

12,670



5111 Connecticut
  Avenue NW

Waterbury, CT

-

2,460

39,547

3,283

2,495

42,795

13,963



180 Scott
  Road

Wayland, MA

-

1,207

27,462

1,389

1,334

28,724

5,630



285 Commonwealth
  Road

Webster Groves,
  MO

-

1,790

15,425

2,152

1,790

17,577

3,197



45 E Lockwood
  Avenue

Welland, ON

6,858


7,530


1,055

8,149




110 First Street

Wellesley, MA

-

4,690

77,462


4,690

77,624

9,840



23 & 27
  Washington Street

West Babylon, NY

-

3,960

47,085

1,759

3,960

48,844

8,199



580 Montauk
  Highway

West Bloomfield,
  MI

-

1,040

12,300


1,089

12,977

2,563



7005 Pontiac
  Trail

West Hills, CA

-

2,600

7,521


2,636

8,342

2,363



9012 Topanga
  Canyon Road

West Vancouver,
  BC

19,905

7,059

28,155

4,847

7,805

32,256

6,834



2095 Marine
  Drive

Westbourne, UKK

-

5,441

41,420

5,289

5,969

46,181

8,676



16-18 Poole Road

Westford, MA

-

1,440

32,607


1,468

32,727

3,329



108 Littleton
  Road

Weston, MA

-

1,160

6,200

1,240

1,160

7,440

1,285



135 North Avenue

Westworth
  Village, TX

-

2,060

31,296


2,060

31,352

2,523



25 Leonard Trail

Weybridge, UKJ

-

7,899

48,240

5,667

8,662

53,144

11,619



Ellesmere Road

Weymouth, UKK

-

2,591

16,551

1,912

2,879

18,174

1,712



Cross Road

White Oak, MD

-

2,304

24,768

1,747

2,316

26,503

4,644



11621 New
  Hampshire Avenue

Wilbraham, MA

-


17,639



18,544

4,515



2387 Boston
  Road

Wilmington, DE

-

1,040

23,338


1,129

24,116

4,588



2215 Shipley
  Street

Winchester, UKJ

-

6,009

29,405

3,647

6,598

32,463

6,719



Stockbridge Road

Winnipeg, MB

13,446

1,960

38,612

5,818

2,225

44,164

12,378



857 Wilkes
  Avenue

Winnipeg, MB

16,833

1,276

21,732

3,031

1,466

24,572

4,643



3161 Grant
  Avenue

Winnipeg, MB

13,641

1,317

15,609

3,176

1,456

18,645

2,899



125 Portsmouth
  Boulevard

Woking, UKJ

-

3,172

13,233

-

3,172

13,233

-



12 Streets
  Heath, West End

Wolverhampton, UKG

-

2,941

8,922

1,363

3,232

9,994

2,856



73 Wergs Road

Woodbridge, CT

-

1,370

14,219

1,423

1,426

15,586

5,225



21 Bradley Road

Woodland Hills,
  CA

-

3,400

20,478


3,447

21,378

4,637



20461 Ventura
  Boulevard

Worcester, MA

-

1,140

21,664

1,057

1,166

22,695

5,493



340 May
  Street

Yarmouth, ME

-


27,711

1,257


28,948

6,586



27 Forest Falls
  Drive

Yonkers, NY

-

3,962

50,107

1,419

3,967

51,521

9,381



65 Crisfield
  Street

Yorkton, SK

$

3,493

$


$

8,756

$

1,128

$


$

9,839

$

1,916



94 Russell Drive

Seniors
  housing operating total

$

1,988,700

$

1,174,980

$

12,626,419

$

1,234,180

$

1,246,991

$

13,788,584

$

2,362,335



Welltower Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2017

(Dollars in
  thousands)

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of
  Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Building & Improvements

Cost Capitalized Subsequent to
  Acquisition

Land

Building & Improvements

Accumulated Depreciation

(1)

Year Acquired

Year Built

Address

Outpatient
  medical:

Akron, OH

$

-

$


$

12,105

$

-

$


$

12,105

$

2,528



701 White Pond
  Drive

Allen, TX

-


14,196



14,994

4,117



1105 N Central
  Expressway

Alpharetta, GA

-


14,757



15,081

4,456



11975 Morris
  Road

Alpharetta, GA

-

1,862

-

-

1,862

-

-



940 North Point
  Parkway

Alpharetta, GA

-


17,103



17,543

5,809



3300 Old Milton
  Parkway

Alpharetta, GA

-


18,902

1,259


20,161

5,652



3400-A Old
  Milton Parkway

Alpharetta, GA

-

1,769

36,152


1,769

36,936

11,834



3400-C Old
  Milton Parkway

Anderson, IN

-

1,193

20,644

-

1,193

20,644




3125 S.
  Scatterfield Rd.

Arcadia, CA

-

5,408

23,219

4,058

5,618

27,067

9,859



301 W.
  Huntington Drive

Arlington, TX

-


18,243



18,617

2,796



902 W. Randol
  Mill Road

Atlanta, GA

-

4,931

18,720

6,731

5,387

24,996

10,420



755 Mt. Vernon
  Hwy.

Atlanta, GA

-

1,947

24,248

1,681

2,030

25,845

6,803



975 Johnson
  Ferry Road

Atlanta, GA

-

-

43,425

1,098

-

44,523

11,603



  Peachtree-Dunwoody Road

Austin, TX

-

1,066

10,112

-

1,066

10,112




5301-B Davis
  Lane

Bardstown, KY

-


7,966



8,007




4359 New
  Shepherdsville Rd

Bartlett, TN

-


15,015

2,042


17,057

6,305



2996 Kate Bond
  Rd.

Bel Air, MD

-

-

24,769

-

-

24,769

1,069



12 Medstar
  Boulevard

Bellevue, NE

-

-

16,680


-

16,682

4,658



2510 Bellevue
  Medical Center Drive

Bettendorf, IA

-

-

7,110


-

7,183




2140 53rd Avenue

Beverly Hills,
  CA

-

20,766

40,730

1,871

20,766

42,601

4,352



9675 Brighton
  Way

Beverly Hills,
  CA

-

18,863

1,192


18,863

1,379




415 North
  Bedford

Beverly Hills,
  CA

-

19,863

31,690


19,863

32,005

3,514



416 North
  Bedford

Beverly Hills,
  CA

33,729

32,603

28,639


32,603

29,132

4,117



435 North
  Bedford

Beverly Hills,
  CA

78,271

52,772

87,366

-

52,772

87,366

8,731



436 North
  Bedford

Birmingham, AL

-


10,201



10,827

3,863



801 Princeton
  Avenue SW

Birmingham, AL

-


11,733

1,949


13,682

4,512



817 Princeton
  Avenue SW

Birmingham, AL

-


18,726

2,006


20,731

7,398



833 Princeton
  Avenue SW

Boardman, OH

-


12,161



12,170

4,225



8423 Market St

Boca Raton, FL

-


12,312



12,714

3,103



9960 S. Central
  Park Boulevard

Boca Raton, FL

-


34,002

3,261


37,158

13,169



9970 S. Central
  Park Blvd.

Boerne, TX

-


12,951

-


12,951

3,100



134 Menger
  Springs Road

Boynton Beach,
  FL

-

2,048

7,692


2,185

8,539

3,507



8188 Jog Rd.

Boynton Beach,
  FL

-

2,048

7,403

1,576

2,185

8,841

3,640



8200 Jog Road

Boynton Beach,
  FL

-


5,611

8,340


13,895

5,191



10075 Jog Rd.

Boynton Beach,
  FL

-

13,324

40,369

2,681

14,030

42,344

9,445



10301 Hagen
  Ranch Road

Bradenton, FL

-

1,184

9,799


1,184

10,216

1,454



315 75th Street
  West

Bradenton, FL

-

1,035

4,298

-

1,035

4,298




7005 Cortez Road
  West

Bridgeton, MO

-

1,701

6,228

-

1,701

6,228




3440 De Paul Ln.

Bridgeton, MO

-


21,221



21,409

6,149



12266 DePaul Dr

Buckhurst Hill,
  UKH

-

12,717

54,001

-

12,717

54,001

3,832



High Road

Burleson, TX

-


12,611



13,309

3,599



12001 South
  Freeway

Burnsville, MN

-

-

31,596


-

32,164

6,446



14101 Fairview
  Dr

Carmel, IN

-

2,280

19,238


2,280

19,886

6,935



12188-A North
  Meridian Street

Carmel, IN

-

2,026

21,559


2,026

21,586

7,913



12188-B North
  Meridian Street

Castle Rock, CO

-


13,004



13,576

2,347



2352 Meadows
  Boulevard

Castle Rock, CO

-

-

11,795

-

-

11,795




Meadows
  Boulevard

Cedar Park, TX

-


20,701

-


20,701




1401 Medical
  Parkway, Building 2

Charleston, SC

-

2,773

25,928


2,815

25,980

3,950



325 Folly Road

Cincinnati, OH

-

-

17,880



18,080

2,853



3301 Mercy
  Health Boulevard

Claremore, OK

-


11,173

-


11,173

3,009



1501 N. Florence
  Ave.

Clarkson Valley,
  MO

-

-

35,592

-

-

35,592

11,095



15945 Clayton Rd

Clear Lake, TX

-

-

13,882

-

-

13,882

1,157



1010 South Ponds
  Drive

Columbia, MD

-

2,333

19,232


2,333

20,098

4,106



10700 Charter
  Drive

Columbia, MD

-


33,885

1,417

9,353

25,972

4,616



5450 & 5500
  Knoll N Dr.

Coon Rapids, MN

-

-

26,679

1,119

-

27,798

4,240



11850 Blackfoot
  Street NW

Costa Mesa, CA

22,748

22,033

24,332

-

22,033

24,332

1,376



1640 Newport
  Boulevard

Cypress, TX

-

1,287

-

-

1,287

-

-



14940 Mueschke
  Road

Cypress, TX

-

2,985

-

-

2,985

-

-



13105 Wortham
  Center Drive

Dade City, FL

-

1,211

5,511

-

1,211

5,511

1,277



13413 US Hwy 301

Dallas, TX

-


15,419

-


15,419

1,051



8196 Walnut Hill
  Lane

Dallas, TX

-


28,690

3,624


32,315

12,204



9330 Poppy Dr.

Dallas, TX

-


52,488



52,714

9,869



7115 Greenville
  Avenue

Dayton, OH

-


6,919



7,281

2,591



1530 Needmore
  Road

Deerfield Beach,
  FL

-

2,408

7,809


2,540

8,094

3,104



1192 East
  Newport Center Drive

Delray Beach, FL

-

1,882

34,767

6,895

2,449

41,094

17,406



5130-5150 Linton
  Blvd.

Durham, NC

-

1,212

22,858


1,212

22,859

3,166



1823 Hillandale
  Road

Edina, MN

-


15,132



16,077

4,346



8100 W 78th St

El Paso, TX

-


17,075

2,249


19,324

8,236



2400 Trawood Dr.

Everett, WA

-

4,842

26,010

-

4,842

26,010

6,630



13020 Meridian
  Ave. S.

Fenton, MO

10,919


27,485



28,199

6,192



1011 Bowles
  Avenue

Fenton, MO

-


13,911



14,016

2,226



1055 Bowles
  Avenue

Florham Park, NJ

-

8,578

61,779

-

8,578

61,779

-



150 Park Avenue

Flower Mound, TX

-


9,277

-


9,277

1,075



2560 Central
  Park Avenue

Flower Mound, TX

-

4,164

27,027

-

4,164

27,027

3,751



4370 Medical
  Arts Drive

Flower Mound, TX

-

4,620

-

-

4,620

-

-



Medical Arts
  Drive

Fort Wayne, IN

-

1,105

22,836

-

1,105

22,836

4,515



7916 Jefferson
  Boulevard

Fort Worth, TX

-


26,020



26,378

4,027



10840 Texas
  Health Trail

Fort Worth, TX

-


6,099

-


6,099




7200 Oakmont
  Boulevard

Franklin, TN

-

2,338

12,138

2,560

2,338

14,699

5,518



100 Covey Drive

Frisco, TX

-

-

18,635

1,476

-

20,111

7,141



4401 Coit Road

Frisco, TX

-

-

15,309

2,537

-

17,846

6,838



4461 Coit Road

Fullerton, CA

-

5,477

53,890

-

5,477

53,890

1,929



1950 Sunny Crest
  Drive

Gallatin, TN

-


21,801

1,729


23,506

6,998



300 Steam Plant
  Rd

Gig Harbor, WA

-


30,810

-


30,810

2,712



11511 Canterwood
  Blvd. NW

Glendale, CA

-


18,398

1,455


19,853

6,341



222 W. Eulalia
  St.

Grand Prairie,
  TX

-


6,086

-


6,086

1,793



2740 N State Hwy

Grapevine, TX

-

-

5,943

4,778

2,081

8,640

1,203



2040 W State Hwy

Grapevine, TX

-

3,365

15,669


3,365

15,699

3,256



2020 W State Hwy

Greeneville, TN

-


10,104



10,178

3,387



438 East Vann Rd

Greenwood, IN

-

8,316

26,384

-

8,316

26,384

5,821



1260 Innovation
  Parkway

Greenwood, IN

-

2,098

21,538


2,098

22,176

2,579



3000 S State
  Road 135

Greenwood, IN

-

1,262

7,045


1,262

7,053

1,226



333 E County
  Line Road

High Point, NC

-

2,659

29,069


2,659

29,191

5,515



4515 Premier
  Drive

Highland, IL

-

-

8,834

-

-

8,834

1,298



12860 Troxler
  Avenue

Houston, TX

-

10,403

-

-

10,403

-




F.M. 1960 &
  Northgate Forest Dr.

Houston, TX

-

5,837

33,128


5,837

33,278

9,728



15655 Cypress
  Woods Medical Dr.

Houston, TX

-

3,102

32,323

2,497

3,242

34,680

5,775



1900 N Loop W
  Freeway

Houston, TX

-

3,688

13,313


3,688

13,430

2,910



10701 Vintage
  Preserve Parkway

Houston, TX

-

1,099

1,604

78,408

12,815

68,296

11,702



2727 W Holcombe
  Boulevard

Howell, MI

-

2,000

13,928

-

2,000

13,928




1225 South
  Latson Road

Hudson, OH

-

2,587

13,720


2,868

14,111

4,157



5655 Hudson
  Drive

Humble, TX

-

-

9,941

-

-

9,941




8233 N. Sam
  Houston Parkway E.

Jackson, MI

-


17,367



17,429

3,709



1201 E Michigan
  Avenue

Jupiter, FL

-

2,252

11,415

3,397

2,608

14,456

4,941



550 Heritage Dr.

Jupiter, FL

-

2,825

5,858


3,005

6,540

2,807



600 Heritage Dr.

Killeen, TX

-


22,878



22,970

7,008



2405 Clear Creek
  Rd

Killeen, TX

-

1,907

3,575

-

1,907

3,575




5702 E Central
  Texas Expressway

Kyle, TX

-

2,569

14,384


2,569

14,850

2,321



135 Bunton Creek
  Road

La Jolla, CA

-

12,855

32,658


12,855

32,826

4,500



4150 Regents
  Park Row

La Jolla, CA

-

9,425

26,525

-

9,425

26,525

2,814



4120 & 4130
  La Jolla Village Drive

La Quinta, CA

-

3,266

22,066


3,279

22,247

3,785



47647 Caleo Bay
  Drive

Lake St Louis,
  MO

-


14,249



14,441

4,499



400 Medical Dr

Lakeway, TX

-

2,801

-

-

2,801

-

-



Lohmans Crossing
  Road

Lakewood, CA

-


14,885

2,291


17,176

5,902



5750 Downey Ave.

Lakewood, WA

-


16,017



16,693

3,256



11307 Bridgeport
  Way SW

Land O Lakes, FL

-

3,025

26,249

-

3,025

26,249




2100 Via Bella

Land O Lakes, FL

-

1,376

6,750

-

1,376

6,750




2150 Via Bella

Las Vegas, NV

-

6,127

-

-

6,127

-

-



SW corner of
  Deer Springs Way and Riley Street

Las Vegas, NV

-

2,319

4,612

1,039

2,319

5,651

2,478



2870 S. Maryland
  Pkwy.

Las Vegas, NV

-


15,287

1,351


16,638

5,930



1815 E. Lake
  Mead Blvd.

Las Vegas, NV

-


6,921



7,135

3,022



1776 E. Warm
  Springs Rd.

Lenexa, KS

-


17,926



18,216

4,676



23401 Prairie
  Star Pkwy

Lenexa, KS

-


13,767

-


13,767

1,353



23351 Prairie
  Star Parkway

Lincoln, NE

-

1,420

29,723


1,420

30,145

9,862



575 South 70th
  St

London, UKI

-

5,547

12,253

-

5,547

12,253




17-19 View Road

London, UKI

-

19,076

167,391

-

19,076

167,391

11,878



53 Parkside

London, UKI

-

4,329

29,815

-

4,329

29,815

2,116



49 Parkside

Los Alamitos, CA

-


18,635

1,085


19,720

6,792



3771 Katella
  Ave.

Los Gatos, CA

-


22,386

2,354


24,739

10,115



555 Knowles Dr.

Loxahatchee, FL

-

1,637

5,048

1,063

1,719

6,029

2,484



12977 Southern
  Blvd.

Loxahatchee, FL

-

1,340

6,509

1,252

1,440

7,662

2,853



12989 Southern
  Blvd.

Loxahatchee, FL

-

1,553

4,694

1,369

1,650

5,966

2,358



12983 Southern
  Blvd.

Marietta, GA

-

2,682

20,053

1,392

2,682

21,446

1,010



4800 Olde Towne
  Parkway

Melbourne, FL

-

3,439

50,461


3,538

50,783

7,147



2222 South
  Harbor City Boulevard

Menasha, WI

-

1,374

13,861

3,074

1,345

16,964

1,364



1550 Midway
  Place

Merced, CA

-

-

13,772


-

14,586

4,436



315 Mercy Ave.

Merriam, KS

-


8,005



8,309

2,898



8800 West 75th
  Street

Merriam, KS

-

-

1,996

2,184


4,099

1,508



7301 Frontage
  Street

Merriam, KS

-

-

10,222

4,510


14,287

4,793



8901 West 74th
  Street

Merriam, KS

-

-

5,862

3,163


8,842

2,960



9119 West 74th
  Street

Merriam, KS

-

1,257

24,911

-

1,257

24,911

4,881



9301 West 74th
  Street

Merrillville, IN

-

-

22,134


-

23,024

6,471



101 E. 87th Ave.

Mesa, AZ

-

1,558

9,561


1,558

10,300

4,396



6424 East
  Broadway Road

Mesquite, TX

-


3,834

-


3,834




1575 I-30

Mission Hills,
  CA

24,325

-

42,276

5,777

4,791

43,262

6,715



11550 Indian
  Hills Road

Missouri City,
  TX

-

1,360

7,146

-

1,360

7,146




7010 Highway 6

Moline, IL

-

-

8,783


-

8,812




3900 28th Avenue
  Drive

Monticello, MN

7,526


18,489



18,537

3,317



1001 Hart
  Boulevard

Moorestown, NJ

-


50,896



50,902

10,435



401  Young
  Avenue

Morrow, GA

-


8,064



8,270

4,063



6635 Lake Drive

Mount Juliet, TN

-

1,566

11,697

1,434

1,566

13,131

5,153



5002 Crossings
  Circle

Mount Vernon, IL

-

-

24,892

-

-

24,892

5,282



2 Good Samaritan
  Way

Murrieta, CA

-

3,800

-

-

3,800

-

-



28078 Baxter Rd.

Murrieta, CA

-

-

47,190


-

47,236

15,692



28078 Baxter Rd.

Nashville, TN

-

1,806

7,165

3,234

1,942

10,263

3,951



310 25th Ave. N.

Nassau Bay, TX

-


31,206



31,374

7,866



18100 St John
  Drive

Nassau Bay, TX

-


10,613

1,282


11,894

3,369



2060 Space Park
  Drive

New Albany, IN

-

2,411

16,494


2,411

16,524

2,318



2210 Green
  Valley Road

Niagara Falls,
  NY

-

1,433

10,891


1,721

11,037

5,311



6932 - 6934
  Williams Rd

Niagara Falls,
  NY

-


8,362



8,669

2,967



6930 Williams Rd

Oklahoma City,
  OK

-


19,135



19,513

4,392



535 NW 9th
  Street

Oro Valley, AZ

-


18,339



19,308

6,489



1521 East
  Tangerine Rd.

Palmer, AK

-


29,705

1,333


31,038

10,170



2490 South
  Woodworth Loop

Pasadena, TX

-

1,700

8,009

-

1,700

8,009




5001 E Sam
  Houston Parkway S

Pearland, TX

-

1,500

11,253

-

1,500

11,253

1,175



2515 Business
  Center Drive

Pearland, TX

-

9,594

32,753


9,807

32,731

3,801



11511 Shadow
  Creek Parkway

Pendleton, OR

-

-

10,312


-

10,355

1,076



3001 St. Anthony
  Way

Phoenix, AZ

-

1,149

48,018

11,667

1,149

59,685

23,017



2222 E. Highland
  Ave.

Pineville, NC

-


6,974

2,504

1,077

9,362

4,180



10512 Park Rd.

Plano, TX

-

5,423

20,698


5,423

20,836

11,412



6957 Plano
  Parkway

Plano, TX

-


83,209

1,356


84,566

18,638



6020 West Parker
  Road

Plantation, FL

-

8,563

10,666

4,269

8,575

14,923

7,044



851-865 SW 78th
  Ave.

Plantation, FL

-

8,848

9,262


8,908

10,095

6,498



600 Pine Island
  Rd.

Portland, ME

-


25,930



25,943

7,307



195 Fore River
  Parkway

Redmond, WA

-

5,015

26,697


5,015

27,573

7,241



18000 NE Union
  Hill Rd.

Reno, NV

-

1,117

21,972

2,056

1,117

24,028

8,627



343 Elm St.

Richmond, TX

-

2,000

9,118

-

2,000

9,118




22121 FM 1093
  Road

Richmond, VA

-

2,969

26,697


3,004

27,291

7,440



7001 Forest
  Avenue

Rockwall, TX

-


17,197



17,723

4,142



3142 Horizon
  Road

Rogers, AR

-

1,062

28,680

2,004

1,062

30,684

9,017



2708 Rife
  Medical Lane

Rolla, MO

-

1,931

47,639

-

1,931

47,639

11,144



1605 Martin
  Spring Drive

Roswell, NM

-


5,851

-


5,851

1,619



601 West Country
  Club Road

Roswell, NM

-


15,984



16,002

3,974



350 West Country
  Club Road

Roswell, NM

-


17,171



17,171

3,499



300 West Country
  Club Road

Sacramento, CA

-


12,756

1,737


14,490

5,359



8120 Timberlake
  Way

Salem, NH

-

1,655

14,050


1,655

14,070

2,381



31 Stiles Road

San Antonio, TX

-

1,048

10,252

-

1,048

10,252

4,636



19016 Stone Oak
  Pkwy.

San Antonio, TX

-

1,038

9,173

1,853

1,074

10,990

5,151



540 Stone Oak
  Centre Drive

San Antonio, TX

-

4,518

31,041

3,353

4,548

34,364

9,138



5282 Medical
  Drive

San Antonio, TX

-


17,288



17,907

3,636



3903 Wiseman
  Boulevard

Santa Clarita,
  CA

-

-

2,338

20,063

5,218

17,183

2,505



23861 McBean
  Parkway

Santa Clarita,
  CA

-

-

28,384

1,499

5,250

24,633

3,534



23929 McBean
  Parkway

Santa Clarita,
  CA

-



11,595

11,872





23871 McBean
  Parkway

Santa Clarita,
  CA

25,000


40,257

-


40,257

3,964



23803 McBean
  Parkway

Santa Clarita,
  CA

-

-

20,618


4,407

16,929

2,615



24355 Lyons
  Avenue

Sarasota, FL

-


47,325

3,134


50,459

11,273



1921 Waldemere
  Street

Seattle, WA

-

4,410

38,428


4,410

38,820

13,671



5350 Tallman Ave

Sewell, NJ

-


57,929



58,508

21,485



  Hurffville-Cross Keys Road

Shakopee, MN

5,900


11,412



11,802

3,714



1515 St Francis
  Ave

Shakopee, MN

9,964


18,089



18,102

4,421



1601 St Francis
  Ave

Shenandoah, TX

-

-

21,135



21,162

1,586



106 Vision Park
  Boulevard

Sherman Oaks, CA

-

-

32,186

2,729

3,121

31,795

4,762



4955 Van Nuys
  Boulevard

Somerville, NJ

-

3,400

22,244


3,400

22,246

5,237



30 Rehill Avenue

Southlake, TX

-

3,000

-

-

3,000

-

-



Central Avenue

Southlake, TX

-


18,243

1,101


19,344

4,305



1545 East
  Southlake Boulevard

Southlake, TX

-


30,549

3,915


34,464

6,472



1545 East
  Southlake Boulevard

Springfield, IL

-

1,569

10,350

-

1,568

10,351




1100 East
  Lincolnshire Blvd

Springfield, IL

-


3,519



3,551




2801 Mathers Rd.

St Paul, MN

-


37,695



38,096

4,007



225 Smith Avenue
  N.

St. Louis, MO

-


17,247

2,004


19,250

6,769



2325 Dougherty
  Rd.

St. Paul, MN

-

2,706

39,507


2,701

39,838

10,622



435 Phalen
  Boulevard

Stamford, CT

-

-

41,153

1,709

-

42,862

1,176



29 Hospital
  Plaza

Suffern, NY

-


37,255



37,394

10,155



257 Lafayette
  Avenue

Suffolk, VA

-

1,566

11,511


1,620

11,676

4,328



5838 Harbour
  View Blvd.

Sugar Land, TX

-

3,543

15,532

-

3,543

15,532

4,408



11555 University
  Boulevard

Tacoma, WA

-

-

64,307

-

-

64,307

14,457



1608 South J
  Street

Tallahassee, FL

-

-

17,449

-

-

17,449

5,095



One Healing
  Place

Tampa, FL

-

4,319

12,234

-

4,319

12,234

2,425



14547 Bruce B
  Downs Blvd

Tampa, FL

-

1,462

7,270

-

1,462

7,270




12500 N Dale
  Mabry

Temple, TX

-

2,900

9,954


2,900

9,980

1,375



2601 Thornton
  Lane

Timonium, MD

-

8,829

12,568

-

8,829

12,568




2118 Greenspring
  Drive

Tucson, AZ

-

1,302

4,925


1,325

5,799

2,662



2055 W. Hospital
  Dr.

Tustin, CA

-

3,345



3,345





14591 Newport
  Ave

Tustin, CA

-

3,361

12,039

1,421

3,361

13,460

2,124



14642 Newport
  Ave

Van Nuys, CA

-

-

36,187

-

-

36,187

8,749



6815 Noble Ave.

Voorhees, NJ

-

6,404

24,251

1,499

6,477

25,677

9,126



900 Centennial
  Blvd.

Voorhees, NJ

-


96,075



96,381

21,530



200 Bowman Drive

Wausau, WI

-

2,050

12,176

-

2,050

12,176




1901 Westwood
  Center Boulevard

Waxahachie, TX

-

-

18,784



18,576




2460 N I-35 East

Wellington, FL

-


16,933

2,685


19,398

6,388



10115 Forest
  Hill Blvd.

Wellington, FL

-


13,697

1,637


15,142

4,720



1395 State Rd. 7

West Seneca, NY

-


22,435

3,841

1,665

25,528

9,442



550 Orchard Park
  Rd

Zephyrhills, FL

$

-

$

3,874

$

27,266

$

-

$

3,875

$

27,274

$

5,923



38135 Market
  Square Dr

Outpatient
  medical total:

$

218,382

$

574,346

$

4,724,190

$

315,225

$

639,696

$

4,974,067

$

1,096,012


Welltower Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2017

(Dollars in
  thousands)

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount at Which Carried at Close of
  Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Buildings & Improvements

Cost Capitalized Subsequent to
  Acquisition

Land

Buildings & Improvements

Accumulated Depreciation

Year Acquired

Year Built

Address

Assets held
  for sale:

Agawam, MA

$

-

$

1,230

$

13,618

$

-

$

-

$

8,189

$

-



61 Cooper Street

Agawam, MA

-


15,304

-

-

8,807

-



55 Cooper Street

Agawam, MA

-


10,661

-

-

6,185

-



464 Main Street

Agawam, MA

-


10,562

-

-

6,111

-



65 Cooper Street

Aspen Hill, MD

-

-

9,008

-

-

7,730

-



3227 Bel Pre
  Road

Aurora, CO

-

2,600

5,906

2,128

-

10,634

-



14101 E. Evans
  Ave.

Ayer, MA

-

-

22,074

-

-

11,708

-



400 Groton Road

Beachwood, OH

-

1,260

23,478

-

-

13,114

-



3800 Park East
  Drive

Bend, OR

-

1,210

9,181

-

-

9,762

-



1801 NE Lotus
  Drive

Bremerton, WA

-


2,210

-

-

2,073

-



3231 Pine Road

Bremerton, WA

-


10,420

-

-

9,872

-



3201 Pine Road
  NE

Bremerton, WA

-


2,899

-

-

3,200

-



3210 Rickey Road

Burlington, WA

-

3,860

31,722

-

-

33,317

-



400 Gilkey Road

Carson City, NV

-


8,238

-

-

8,037

-



1111 W. College
  Parkway

Cedar Grove, WI

-



-

-


-



313 S. Main St.

Cloquet, MN

-


4,660

-

-

4,285

-



705 Horizon
  Circle

Columbia, SC

-

2,120

4,860

1,070

-

8,050

-



731 Polo Rd.

Concord, NH

-


3,041

-

-

3,344

-



227 Pleasant
  Street

Crown Point, IN

-


20,044

-

-

15,895

-



1555 South Main
  Street

Dallas, OR

-


9,427


-

10,129

-



664 SE Jefferson

Dallas, TX

-

1,080

9,655

-

-

6,615

-



3611 Dickason
  Avenue

Dyer, IN

-

1,800

25,061

-

-

20,365

-



1532 Calumet
  Avenue

Eugene, OR

-


5,822

-

-

6,252

-



4550 West Amazon
  Drive

Franklin, WI

4,161

6,872

7,550

-

-

10,294

-



9200 W. Loomis
  Rd.

Glastonbury, CT

-

1,950

9,532

-

-

7,520

-



72 Salmon Brook
  Drive

Grass Valley, CA

4,113


7,667

-

-

7,324

-



415 Sierra
  College Drive

Green Bay, WI

5,178

-

14,891

-

-

10,945

-



2253 W. Mason
  St.

Green Bay, WI

-

-

20,098

-

-

14,874

-



2845 Greenbrier
  Road

Green Bay, WI

-

-

11,696

-

-

7,474

-



2845 Greenbrier
  Road

Hemet, CA

-


3,405

-

-

3,342

-



25818 Columbia
  St.

Houston, TX

-

5,090

9,471

-

-

8,442

-



15015 Cypress
  Woods Medical Drive

Houston, TX

-


27,598

-

-

9,332

-



  Cypresswood Dr

Hove, UKJ

-

1,360

6,979

-

-

2,361

-



Furze Hill

Indianapolis, IN

-


6,287

11,018

-

17,800

-



8616 W. Tenth
  St.

Indianapolis, IN

-


2,473

6,335

-

9,063

-



8616 W.Tenth St.

Kenosha, WI

5,676

-

18,058

-

-

12,519

-



10400 75th St.

Kent, WA

-


20,318

2,768

-

24,026

-



24121 116th
  Avenue SE

Lancaster, NH

-



-

-


-



63 Country
  Village Road

Lowell, MA

-

1,070

13,481

-

-

1,960

-



841 Merrimack
  Street

Marinette, WI

4,832

-

13,538

-

-

8,664

-



4061 Old
  Peshtigo Rd.

McMinnville, OR

-


7,984

-

-

8,296

-



3121 NE Cumulus
  Avenue

Meridian, ID

-

3,600

20,802

-

-

6,860

-



2825 E. Blue
  Horizon Dr.

Milwaukee, WI

3,424


8,457

-

-

5,846

-



1218 W. Kilbourn
  Ave.

Milwaukee, WI

7,547

1,425

11,520

-

-

8,731

-



3301-3355 W.
  Forest Home Ave.

Milwaukee, WI

1,888


2,185

-

-

2,108

-



840 N. 12th St.

Milwaukee, WI

13,270

-

44,535

-

-

30,222

-



2801 W.
  Kinnickinnic Pkwy.

Milwaukie, OR

-


6,782

-

-

6,828

-



5770 SE Kellogg
  Creek Drive

Mount Vernon, WA

-

3,440

21,842


-

25,410

-



1810 E. Division
  Street

Mt. Vernon, WA

-


2,200

-

-

2,066

-



3807 East
  College Way

Muskego, WI



2,159

-

-

2,156

-



S74 W16775
  Janesville Rd.

New Berlin, WI

3,500

3,739

8,290

-

-

8,129

-



14555 W.
  National Ave.

New Haven, IN

-


3,524

-

-

1,961

-



1201 Daly Dr.

North Bend, OR

-

1,290

7,361


-

8,815

-



2290 Inland
  Drive

North Cape May,
  NJ

-




-


-



610 Town Bank
  Road

Oshkosh, WI

-

-

18,339

-

-

12,160

-



855 North
  Wethaven Dr.

Oshkosh, WI

5,978

-

15,881

-

-

11,337

-



855 North
  Wethaven Dr.

Palm Springs, FL

-


4,066

-

-

2,061

-



1640 S. Congress
  Ave.

Palm Springs, FL

-

1,182

7,765

-

-

3,072

-



1630 S. Congress
  Ave.

Plymouth, WI

1,059

1,250

1,870

-

-

2,149

-



2636 Eastern
  Ave.

Post Falls, ID

-

2,700

14,217

-

-

14,941

-



460 N. Garden
  Plaza Ct.

Richardson, TX

-

1,800

16,562

-

-

17,440

-



1350 East
  Lookout Drive

Rockville, MD

-

-

16,398

-

-

8,715

-



9701 Medical
  Center Drive

Roseburg, OR

-

1,200

4,891

-

-

5,792

-



1901 NW Hughwood
  Drive

Salem, OR

-


4,726

-

-

4,903

-



3988 12th Street
  SE

Sheboygan, WI

1,463

1,012

2,216

-

-

2,318

-



1813 Ashland
  Ave.

Shelton, WA

-


17,049

-

-

15,409

-



900 W Alpine Way

Sparks, NV

-

3,700

46,526

-

-

39,559

-



275 Neighborhood
  Way

Springfield, OR

-

1,790

8,865

-

-

10,131

-



770 Harlow Road

Summit, WI

-

2,899

87,666

-

-

60,029

-



36500 Aurora Dr.

Tucson, AZ

-

1,190

18,318


-

19,824

-



8151 E Speedway
  Boulevard

Wallingford, CT

-


1,210

-

-


-



35 Marc Drive

West Allis, WI

2,685

1,106

3,308

-

-

3,159

-



11333 W.
  National Ave.

Westlake, OH

-

1,330

17,926

-

-

10,208

-



  Westchester Pkwy.

Wilkes-Barre, PA

$

-

$


$

2,301

$

-

$

-

$

1,545

$

-



300 Courtright
  Street

Assets held
  for sale total

$

65,682

$

85,466

$

909,837

$

24,356

$

-

$

734,147

-


Summary:

Triple-net

$

343,361

$

818,863

$

7,759,508

$

382,344

$

847,780

$

8,112,937

$

1,380,023

Seniors housing
  operating

1,988,700

1,174,980

12,626,419

1,234,180

1,246,991

13,788,584

2,362,335

Outpatient
  medical

218,382

574,346

4,724,190

315,225

639,696

4,974,067

1,096,012

Construction in
  progress

-

-

237,746

-

-

237,746

-

Total
  continuing operating properties

2,550,443

2,568,189

25,347,863

1,931,749

2,734,467

27,113,334

4,838,370

Assets held for
  sale

65,682

85,466

909,837

24,356

-

734,147

-

Total
  investments in real property owned

$

2,616,125

$

2,653,655

$

26,257,700

$

1,956,105

$

2,734,467

$

27,847,481

$

4,838,370

(1) Please see
  Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding
  lives used for depreciation and amortization.

(2) Represents
  real property asset associated with a capital lease.


Year Ended December 31,




(in thousands)

Investment in real estate:

Beginning balance

$

30,041,058

$

29,865,490

$

25,491,935

Acquisitions and development

1,276,636

2,834,279

5,076,830

Improvements

250,276

219,146

187,752

Deconsolidation of previously consolidated venture

(144,897)

-

-

Impairment of assets

(101,527)

(37,207)

(2,220)

Dispositions

(1,203,247)

(2,411,219)

(491,396)

Foreign currency translation

415,879

(429,431)

(397,411)

Other

(1)

47,770

-

-

Ending balance

(2)

$

30,581,948

$

30,041,058

$

29,865,490

Accumulated depreciation:

Beginning balance

$

4,093,494

$

3,796,297

$

3,020,908

Depreciation and amortization expenses

921,720

901,242

826,240

Amortization of above market leases

7,303

7,909

11,912

Disposition and other

(192,029)

(514,651)

(111,199)

Foreign currency translation

7,882

(97,303)

48,436

Ending balance

$

4,838,370

$

4,093,494

$

3,796,297

(1) Primarily relates to the acquisition
  of an asset through foreclosure.

(2) The unaudited aggregate cost for tax
  purposes for real property equals $25,618,090,000 at December 31, 2017.


Welltower Inc.

Schedule IV - Mortgage
  Loans on Real Estate

December 31, 2017

(in thousands)

Location

Segment

Interest Rate

Final Maturity Date

Monthly Payment Terms

Prior Liens

Face Amount of Mortgages

Carrying Amount of Mortgages

Principal Amount of Loans
  Subject to Delinquent Principal or Interest

First mortgages relating to 1 property located in:

California

Triple-Net

8.11%

12/15/20

$

2,011,590

$

-

$

28,000

$


$

-

United Kingdom

Triple-Net

7.25%

11/21/19

115,794,386

-

18,805

18,805

-

United Kingdom

Triple-Net

8.29%

01/16/18

9,521,615

-

2,841

1,352

-

United Kingdom

Triple-Net

8.00%

08/24/22

10,858,294

-

11,712

1,645

-

United Kingdom

Triple-Net

8.55%

07/01/19

83,119,990

-

15,487

15,486

-

United Kingdom

Triple-Net

7.00%

03/14/22

96,303,670

-

28,374

16,139

-

United Kingdom

Triple-Net

8.00%

07/06/19

137,884,551

-

20,294

20,294

-

Oklahoma

Triple-Net

9.02%

11/01/19

88,826,160

-

11,610

11,595

-

Oregon

Triple-Net

7.10%

12/31/17

1,356,780

-



-

Pennsylvania

Triple-Net

8.11%

03/01/22

36,683,720

-

15,530

5,706

-

Florida

Triple-Net

8.79%

06/23/21

94,519,150

-

17,100

12,444

-

First mortgages relating to multiple properties:

7 properties in four states

Triple-Net

10.00%

01/01/22

$

297,169,200

-

65,796

25,832

-

13 properties in Texas

Triple-Net

10.00%

01/01/22

851,672,100

-

103,620

82,041

-

13 properties in six states

Triple-Net

10.00%

01/01/22

1,139,453,100

-

138,633

91,164

-

Second mortgages relating to 1 property located in:

Texas

Triple-Net

12.17%

05/01/19

32,033

11,367

3,100

3,100

-

Totals

$

11,367

$

481,127

$

306,120

$

-

Year Ended December 31,




Reconciliation of mortgage loans:

(in thousands)

Balance at beginning of year

$

485,735

$

635,492

$

188,651

Additions:

New mortgage loans

6,706

8,223

524,088

Draws on existing loans

58,224

92,815

30,550

64,930

101,038

554,638

Deductions:

Collections of principal

(180,135)

(191,134)

(80,552)

Conversions to real property

-

(45,044)

(23,288)

Change in allowance for loan losses and charge-offs

(71,535)

(3,053)

-

Total deductions

(251,670)

(239,231)

(103,840)

Change in balance due to foreign currency translation

7,125

(11,564)

(3,957)

Balance at end of year

$

306,120

$

485,735

$

635,492

109