10-K


10-K.htm

10-K

UNITED
STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM
10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31,

Commission File No. 1-8923

HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

(Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware

34-1096634

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

(419) 247-2800

(Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each
  Class

Name of Each
  Exchange on Which Registered

Common
  Stock, $1.00 par value

New
  York Stock Exchange

6.50%
  Series I Cumulative

Convertible
  Perpetual Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value

New
  York Stock Exchange

6.50%
  Series J Cumulative

Redeemable
  Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value

New
  York Stock Exchange

4.800%
  Notes due 2028

New
  York Stock Exchange

4.500%
  Notes due 2034

New
  York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes

☑

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or 15(d) of the Act.  Yes

o

No

☑

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes

☑

No

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405
of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes

☑

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

R

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller
reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

☑

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes

o

No

☑

The
aggregate market value of the shares of voting common stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing sales
price of such shares on the New York Stock Exchange as of the last business day
of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter was $19,277,423,332.

As of
January 31, 2015, the registrant had 329,912,724 shares of common stock
outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions
of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the annual stockholders’ meeting
to be held May 7, 2015, are incorporated by reference into Part III.

HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

2014 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT


Page

PART I

Item
  1.

Business


Item
  1A.

Risk
  Factors


Item
  1B.

Unresolved
  Staff Comments


Item
  2.

Properties


Item
  3.

Item
  4.

Legal
  Proceedings

Mine
  Safety Disclosures



PART II

Item
  5.

Market
  for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
  Purchases of Equity Securities


Item
  6.

Selected
  Financial Data


Item
  7.

Management’s
  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


Item
  7A.

Quantitative
  and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


Item
  8.

Financial
  Statements and Supplementary Data


Item
  9.

Changes
  in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


Item
  9A.

Controls
  and Procedures


Item
  9B.

Other
  Information


PART III

Item
  10.

Directors,

Executive Officers and Corporate Governance


Item
  11.

Executive
  Compensation


Item
  12.

Security
  Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
  Matters


Item
  13.

Certain

Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence


Item
  14.

Principal
  Accounting Fees and Services


PART IV

Item
  15.

Exhibits

and Financial Statement Schedules


PART I

Item 1.

Business

General

Health
Care REIT, Inc. is a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) that has been at the
forefront of seniors housing and health care real estate since the company was
founded in 1970.  We are an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio. Our
portfolio spans the full spectrum of seniors housing and health care real
estate, including seniors housing communities, long-term/post-acute care facilities,
medical office buildings, inpatient and outpatient medical centers and life
science facilities. Our capital programs, when combined with comprehensive
planning, development and property management services, make us a single-source
solution for acquiring, planning, developing, managing, repositioning and
monetizing real estate assets.  More information is available on the Internet at
www.hcreit.com.  The information on our website is not incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included
as an inactive textual reference only.

Our
primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder
value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create
opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of
annual increases in net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these
objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health
care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type,
customer and geographic location.

Depending
upon the availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is
sufficient to fund operations, meet debt service obligations (both principal
and interest), make dividend distributions and complete construction projects
in process. We also continuously evaluate opportunities to finance future
investments. New investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings
under our primary unsecured credit facility, internally generated cash and the
proceeds from investment dispositions. Our investments generate cash from net
operating income and principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent
financing for future investments, which replaces funds drawn under our primary
unsecured credit facility, has historically been provided through a combination
of the issuance of public debt and equity securities and the incurrence or
assumption of secured debt.

References
herein to “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” refer to Health Care REIT, Inc.
and its subsidiaries unless specifically noted otherwise.

Portfolio of Properties

Please
see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operation – Executive Summary – Company Overview” for a table that
summarizes our portfolio as of December 31, 2014.

Property Types

We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate and
evaluate our business on three reportable segments: seniors housing triple-net,
seniors housing operating and medical facilities.

For
additional information regarding our segments, please see Note 17 to our
consolidated financial statements.

The accounting
policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of
significant accounting policies in Note 2 to our consolidated financial
statements.

The following is a summary of our various property types.

Seniors
Housing Triple-Net

Our
seniors housing triple-net properties include independent living facilities,
independent supportive living facilities (Canada), continuing care retirement
communities, assisted living facilities, care homes with and without nursing, Alzheimer’s/dementia
facilities, long-term/post-acute care facilities, hospitals and combinations
thereof. We invest primarily through acquisitions, development and joint venture
partnerships. Our properties are primarily leased to operators under long-term,
triple-net master leases. We are not involved in property management.  Our
properties include stand-alone facilities that provide one level of service,
combination facilities that provide multiple levels of service, and communities
or campuses that provide a wide range of services.

Independent
Living Facilities and Independent Supportive Living Facilities (Canada).

Independent
living facilities and independent supportive living facilities are
age-restricted, multifamily properties with central dining facilities that
provide residents access to meals and other services such as housekeeping,
linen service, transportation and social and recreational activities.

Continuing
Care Retirement Communities.

Continuing care
retirement communities typically include a combination of detached homes, an
independent living facility, an assisted living facility and/or a
long-term/post-acute care facility on one campus. These communities appeal to
residents because there is no need to relocate when health and medical needs
change. Resident payment plans

vary, but can include
entrance fees, condominium fees and rental fees. Many of these communities also
charge monthly maintenance fees in exchange for a living unit, meals and some
health services.

Assisted
Living Facilities

.  Assisted living facilities are state regulated rental
properties that provide the same services as independent living facilities, but
also provide supportive care from trained employees to residents who require
assistance with activities of daily living, including, but not limited to, management
of medications, bathing, dressing, toileting, ambulating and eating.

Care
Homes with Nursing (United Kingdom)

.  Care homes with nursing,
regulated by the Care Quality Commission are licensed daily rate or rental
properties where the majority of individuals require 24-hour nursing and/or
medical care. Generally, these properties are licensed for various federal and
local reimbursement programs.  Unlike the U.S., care homes with nursing in the
U.K. generally do not provide post-acute care.

Care
Homes (United Kingdom)

.  Care homes, regulated by the Care
Quality Commission, are rental properties that provide essentially the same
services as U.S. assisted living facilities.

Alzheimer’s/Dementia
Care Facilities.

Certain assisted living facilities may include
state-licensed settings that specialize in caring for those afflicted with
Alzheimer’s disease and/or other types of dementia.

Long-Term/Post-Acute
Care Facilities

.  Our long-term/post-acute care facilities generally include
skilled nursing/post-acute care facilities, inpatient rehabilitation facilities
and long-term acute care facilities.  Skilled nursing/post-acute care facilities
are licensed daily rate or rental properties where the majority of individuals
require 24-hour nursing and/or medical care. Generally, these properties are
licensed for Medicaid and/or Medicare reimbursement in the United States or
provincial reimbursement in Canada.  All facilities offer some level of
rehabilitation services.  Some facilities focus on higher acuity patients and offer
rehabilitation units specializing in cardiac, orthopedic, dialysis,
neurological or pulmonary rehabilitation.  Inpatient rehabilitation facilities
provide inpatient services for patients with intensive rehabilitation needs.  Long-term
acute care facilities provide inpatient services for patients with complex
medical conditions that require more intensive care, monitoring or emergency
support than is available in most skilled nursing/post-acute care facilities.

Hospitals

. 
Hospitals are acute care facilities that provide a wide range of inpatient and
outpatient services, including, but not limited to, surgery, rehabilitation,
therapy and clinical laboratories.

Our seniors housing
triple-net segment accounted for 31%, 31% and 46% of total revenues (including
discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012,
respectively.  We lease 181 facilities to Genesis Healthcare, LLC, an operator
of long-term/post-acute care facilities, pursuant to a long-term, triple-net
master lease.  In addition to rent, the master lease requires Genesis to pay
all operating costs, utilities, real estate taxes, insurance, building repairs,
maintenance costs and all obligations under the ground leases.  All obligations
under the master lease have been guaranteed by FC-GEN Operations Investment,
LLC.  For the year ended December 31, 2014, our lease with Genesis accounted
for approximately 31% of our seniors housing triple-net segment revenues and 9%
of our total revenues.

Seniors
Housing Operating

Our
seniors housing operating properties include several of the facility types
described in “Item 1 – Business – Property Types – Seniors Housing Triple-Net”,
including independent living facilities and independent supportive living
facilities, assisted living facilities, care homes and Alzheimer’s/dementia
care facilities.

Properties
are primarily held in consolidated joint venture entities with operating
partners. We utilize the structure proposed in the REIT Investment
Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007, which is commonly referred to as a
“RIDEA” structure (the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code authorizing the
RIDEA structure were enacted as part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act
of 2008).  See Note 18 for more information.

Our seniors housing
operating segment accounted for 57%, 56% and 37% of total revenues (including
discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012,
respectively.  We have relationships with ten operators to own and operate 297 facilities
(plus 55 unconsolidated facilities).  In each instance, our partner provides
management services to the properties pursuant to an incentive-based management
contract.  We rely on our partners to effectively and efficiently manage these
properties.  For the year ended December 31, 2014, our relationship with
Sunrise Senior Living accounted for approximately 47% of our seniors housing
operating segment revenues and 27% of our total revenues.

Medical
Facilities


Our
medical facilities include medical office buildings and life science
facilities.  We typically lease our medical office buildings to multiple
tenants and provide varying levels of property management.  Our life science
investment represents an investment in an unconsolidated joint venture entity
(see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements).  Our medical facilities
segment accounted for 12%, 13% and 17% of total revenues (including
discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012,
respectively.  No single tenant exceeds 20% of segment revenues.

Medical
Office Buildings

.  The medical office building portfolio consists of health care
related buildings that generally include physician offices, ambulatory surgery
centers, diagnostic facilities, outpatient services and/or labs. Our portfolio
has a strong affiliation with health systems. Approximately 95% of our medical
office building portfolio is affiliated with health systems (with buildings on
hospital campuses or serving as satellite locations for the health system and
their physicians).

Life
Science Facilities

.  The life science portfolio consists of laboratory and office facilities
specifically designed and constructed for use by biotechnology and
pharmaceutical companies.  These facilities are located adjacent to The
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which is a well-established market known
for pharmaceutical and biotechnology research. They are similar to commercial
office buildings with advanced HVAC (heating, ventilation and air conditioning),
electrical and mechanical systems.

Investments

Depending
upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in
the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate
returns to our stockholders.  We invest in seniors housing and health care real
estate primarily through acquisitions, developments and joint venture
partnerships. For additional information regarding acquisition and development
activity, please see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.  We
diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship and geographic
location. In determining whether to invest in a property, we focus on the
following: (1) the experience of the obligor’s/partner’s management team;
(2) the historical and projected financial and operational performance of
the property; (3) the credit of the obligor/partner; (4) the security
for any lease or loan; (5) the real estate attributes of the building and its
location; (6) the capital committed to the property by the
obligor/partner; and (7) the operating fundamentals of the applicable industry.
We conduct market research and analysis for all potential investments. In
addition, we review the value of all properties, the interest rates and
covenant requirements of any facility-level debt to be assumed at the time of
the acquisition and the anticipated sources of repayment of any existing debt
that is not to be assumed at the time of the acquisition.

We
monitor our investments through a variety of methods determined by the type of
property. Our proactive and comprehensive asset management process for seniors
housing properties generally includes review of monthly financial statements
and other operating data for each property, review of obligor/partner
creditworthiness, property inspections, and review of covenant compliance
relating to licensure, real estate taxes, letters of credit and other
collateral. Our internal property management division actively manages and
monitors the medical office building portfolio with a comprehensive process
including review of, among other things, tenant relations, lease expirations,
the mix of health service providers, hospital/health system relationships,
property performance, capital improvement needs, and market conditions. In
monitoring our portfolio, our personnel use a proprietary database to collect
and analyze property-specific data. Additionally, we conduct extensive research
to ascertain industry trends.

We evaluate
the operating environment in each property’s market to determine the likely
trend in operating performance of the facility.  When we identify unacceptable
trends, we seek to mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk. Through these
efforts, we are generally able to intervene at an early stage to address any
negative trends, and in so doing, support both the collectability of revenue
and the value of our investment.

Investment Types

Real Property.

Our
properties are primarily comprised of land, buildings, improvements and related
rights.  Our seniors housing triple-net properties are generally leased to
operators under long-term operating leases.  The leases generally have a fixed
contractual term of 12 to 15 years and contain one or more five to 15-year
renewal options. Certain of our leases also contain purchase options, a portion
of which could result in the disposition of properties for less than full
market value.  Most of our rents are received under triple-net leases requiring
the operator to pay rent and all additional charges incurred in the operation
of the leased property. The tenants are required to repair, rebuild and
maintain the leased properties. Substantially all of these operating leases are
designed with escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental
escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial
lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related to
leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on the
contractual cash rental payments due for the period.

At
December 31, 2014, approximately 89% of our seniors housing triple-net
properties were subject to master leases. A master lease is a lease of multiple
properties to one tenant entity under a single lease agreement. From time to
time, we may acquire additional properties that are then leased to the tenant
under the master lease. The tenant is required to make one monthly payment that
represents rent on all the properties that are subject to the master lease.
Typically, the master lease tenant can exercise its right to purchase the
properties or to renew the master lease only with respect to all leased
properties at the same time. This bundling feature benefits us because the
tenant cannot limit the purchase or renewal to the better performing properties
and terminate the leasing


arrangement with respect to
the poorer performing properties. This spreads our risk among the entire group
of properties within the master lease. The bundling feature should provide a
similar advantage to us if the master lease tenant is in bankruptcy. Subject to
certain restrictions, a debtor in bankruptcy has the right to assume or reject
each of its leases. It is our intent that a tenant in bankruptcy would be
required to assume or reject the master lease as a whole, rather than deciding
on a property by property basis.

Our
medical office building portfolio is primarily self-managed and consists
principally of multi-tenant properties leased to health care providers. Our
leases typically include increasers and some form of operating expense
reimbursement by the tenant. As of December 31, 2014, 85% of our portfolio
included leases with full pass through, 13% with a partial expense
reimbursement (modified gross) and 2% with no expense reimbursement (gross).
Our medical office building leases are non-cancellable operating leases that
have a weighted-average remaining term of eight years at December 31, 2014 and
are often credit enhanced by security deposits, guaranties and/or letters of
credit.

Construction.

We occasionally
provide for the construction of properties for tenants as part of long-term
operating leases. We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds
used for the construction of properties owned by us. The amount capitalized is
based upon the amount advanced during the construction period using the rate of
interest that approximates our company-wide cost of financing. Our interest
expense is reduced by the amount capitalized. We also typically charge a
transaction fee at the commencement of construction which we defer and amortize
to income over the term of the resulting lease. The construction period commences
upon funding and terminates upon the earlier of the completion of the
applicable property or the end of a specified period. During the construction
period, we advance funds to the tenants in accordance with agreed upon terms
and conditions which require, among other things, periodic site visits by a
Company representative. During the construction period, we generally require an
additional credit enhancement in the form of payment and performance bonds
and/or completion guaranties. At December 31, 2014, we had outstanding construction
investments of $186,327,000 and were committed to provide additional funds of
approximately $227,618,000 to complete construction for investment properties.

Real Estate Loans.

Our
real estate loans are typically structured to provide us with interest income,
principal amortization and transaction fees and are generally secured by
first/second mortgage liens, leasehold mortgages, corporate guaranties and/or
personal guaranties. At December 31, 2014, we had outstanding real estate loans
of $380,169,000.  The interest yield averaged approximately 8.2% per annum on
our outstanding real estate loan balances. Our yield on real estate loans
depends upon a number of factors, including the stated interest rate, average
principal amount outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate
adjustments. The real estate loans outstanding at December 31, 2014 are
generally subject to one to 15-year terms with principal amortization schedules
and/or balloon payments of the outstanding principal balances at the end of the
term. Typically, real estate loans are cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized
with other real estate loans, operating leases or agreements between us and the
obligor and its affiliates.

Investments in
Unconsolidated Entities

.  Our investments in unconsolidated entities
generally represent interests ranging from 10% to 50% in real estate assets.  Investments
in less than majority owned entities are reported under the equity method of
accounting when our interests represent either (1) general partnership interests
subject to substantive participating or kick-out rights that have been granted
to the limited partners, or (2) limited partnership interests with no control over
major operating and financial policies of the entities. Under the equity method
of accounting, our share of the investee’s earnings or losses is included in
our consolidated results of operations. To the extent that our cost basis is
different from the basis reflected at the entity level, the basis difference is
generally amortized over the lives of the related assets and liabilities, and
such amortization is included in our share of equity in earnings of the entity.
 The initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated entities is based
on the amount paid to purchase the entity interest or the estimated fair value
of the assets prior to the sale of interests in the entity. We evaluate our
equity method investments for impairment based upon a comparison of the
estimated fair value of the equity method investment to its carrying value.
When we determine a decline in the estimated fair value of such an investment
below its carrying value is other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.  See
Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for more information.

Principles of Consolidation

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned
subsidiaries and joint venture entities that we control, through voting rights
or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated in consolidation.

At
inception of joint venture transactions, we identify entities for which control
is achieved through means other than voting rights (“variable interest
entities” or “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary
beneficiary of its operations. A VIE is broadly defined as an entity where
either (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a
controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is
insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional
subordinated financial support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined
to be the primary beneficiary.  Accounting Standards Codification Topic 810,

Consolidations

,

requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to determining
whether or not a VIE will need to be consolidated on a continuous basis. This
evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and influence the
activities of a VIE that most significantly impact that entity’s economic
performance.


For investments in joint ventures, we evaluate the type of rights
held by the limited partner(s), which may preclude consolidation in
circumstances in which the sole general partner would otherwise consolidate the
limited partnership. The assessment of limited partners’ rights and their
impact on the presumption of control over a limited partnership by the sole
general partner should be made when an investor becomes the sole general partner and should be reassessed if (i) there is a change to the terms or in the
exercisability of the rights of the limited partners, (ii) the sole
general

partner increases or decreases its ownership in the limited partnership interests, or
(iii) there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding
limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing
members of limited liability companies.

Borrowing Policies

We
utilize a combination of debt and equity to fund investments. Our debt and
equity levels are determined by management to maintain a conservative credit
profile. Generally, we intend to issue unsecured, fixed-rate public debt with
long-term maturities to approximate the maturities on our triple-net leases and
loans. For short-term purposes, we may borrow on our primary unsecured credit
facility. We replace these borrowings with long-term capital such as senior
unsecured notes, common stock or preferred stock. When terms are deemed
favorable, we may invest in properties subject to existing mortgage
indebtedness. In addition, we may obtain secured financing for unleveraged
properties in which we have invested or may refinance properties acquired on a
leveraged basis. In certain agreements with our lenders, we are subject to
restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.

Competition

We
compete with other real estate investment trusts, real estate partnerships,
private equity and hedge fund investors, banks, insurance companies,
finance/investment companies, government-sponsored agencies, taxable and
tax-exempt bond funds, health care operators, developers and other investors in
the acquisition, development, leasing and financing of health care and seniors
housing properties. We compete for investments based on a number of factors
including relationships, certainty of execution, investment structures and
underwriting criteria. Our ability to successfully compete is impacted by
economic and demographic trends, availability of acceptable investment
opportunities, our ability to negotiate beneficial investment terms,
availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs and
applicable laws and regulations.

The
operators/tenants of our properties compete with properties that provide
comparable services in the local markets. Operators/tenants compete for
patients and residents based on a number of factors including quality of care,
reputation, physical appearance of properties, location, services offered,
family preferences, physicians, staff and price. We also face competition from
other health care facilities for tenants, such as physicians and other health
care providers that provide comparable facilities and services.

For
additional information on the risks associated with our business, please see
“Item 1A — Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

As of January 31, 2015, we had 438 employees.

Credit Concentrations

Please see Note 8 to our
consolidated financial statements.

Geographic Concentrations

Please see “Item 2 –
Properties” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 17 to our
consolidated financial statements.

Health Care Industry

The
demand for health care services, and consequently health care properties, is
projected to reach unprecedented levels in the near future. The Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) projects that national health
expenditures will rise to approximately $3.4 trillion in 2016 or 17.7% of gross
domestic product (“GDP”). The average annual growth in national health
expenditures for 2013 through 2023 is expected to be 5.7%.

While demographics are
the primary driver of demand, economic conditions and availability of services
contribute to health care service utilization rates. We believe the health care
property market may be less susceptible to fluctuations and economic downturns
relative to other property sectors. Investor interest in the market remains
strong, especially in specific sectors such as private-pay senior living and
medical office buildings.

The total U.S.
population is projected to increase by 13.4% through 2033. The elderly
population aged 65 and over is projected to increase by 68.3% through 2033. The
elderly are an important component of health care utilization, especially
independent living services, assisted living services, long-term/post-acute
care services, inpatient and outpatient hospital services and physician
ambulatory care. Most health care services are provided within a health care
facility such as a hospital, a physician’s office or a seniors housing
community. Therefore, we believe there will be continued demand for companies,
such as ours, with expertise in health care real estate.


Health
care real estate investment opportunities tend to increase as demand for health
care services increases.  We recognize the need for health care real estate as
it correlates to health care service demand.  Health care providers require
real estate to house their businesses and expand their services.  We believe
that investment opportunities in health care real estate will continue to be
present due to:

·

The specialized nature of the industry, which enhances the credibility
and experience of our company;

·

The projected population growth combined with stable or increasing
health care utilization rates, which ensures demand; and

·

The on-going merger and acquisition activity.

Certain Government
Regulations

United States

Health
Law Matters — Generally

Typically, operators of seniors housing facilities do not receive significant
funding from government programs and are largely subject to state laws, as
opposed to federal laws. Operators of long-term/post-acute care facilities and
hospitals do receive significant funding from government programs, and these
facilities are subject to the federal and state laws that regulate the type and
quality of the medical and/or nursing care provided, ancillary services (e.g.,
respiratory, occupational, physical and infusion therapies), qualifications of
the administrative personnel and nursing staff, the adequacy of the physical
plant and equipment, reimbursement and rate setting and operating policies.  In
addition, as described below, operators of these facilities are subject to
extensive laws and regulations pertaining to health care fraud and abuse,
including, but not limited to, the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the Federal
Stark Law, and the Federal False Claims Act, as well as comparable state law
counterparts.  Hospitals, physician group practice clinics, and other health
care providers that operate in our portfolio are subject to extensive federal,
state, and local licensure, registration, certification, and inspection laws,
regulations, and industry standards. Our tenants’ failure to comply with any of
these, and other, laws could result in loss of accreditation; denial of
reimbursement; imposition of fines; suspension, decertification, or exclusion
from federal and state health care programs; loss of license; or closure of the
facility.

Licensing
and Certification

The primary regulations that affect seniors housing facilities with assisted
living are state licensing and registration laws. In granting and renewing
these licenses, the state regulatory agencies consider numerous factors
relating to a property’s physical plant and operations, including, but not
limited to, admission and discharge standards, staffing, and training. A
decision to grant or renew a license is also affected by a property owner’s
record with respect to patient and consumer rights, medication guidelines, and
rules.  Certain of the seniors housing facilities mortgaged to or owned by us
may require the resident to pay an entrance or upfront fee, a portion of which
may be refundable.  These entrance fee communities are subject to significant state
regulatory oversight, including, for example, oversight of each facility’s
financial condition; establishment and monitoring of reserve requirements, and
other financial restrictions; the right of residents to cancel their contracts
within a specified period of time; lien rights in favor of residents;
restrictions on change of ownership; and similar matters.  Such oversight, and
the rights of residents within these entrance fee communities, may have an
effect on the revenue or operations of the operators of such facilities, and,
therefore, may adversely affect us.

Certain health care facilities are subject to a variety of licensure and
certificate of need (“CON”) laws and regulations.  Where applicable, CON laws
generally require, among other requirements, that a facility demonstrate the
need for (1) constructing a new facility, (2) adding beds or expanding an
existing facility, (3) investing in major capital equipment or adding new
services, (4) changing the ownership or control of an existing licensed
facility, or (5) terminating services that have been previously approved
through the CON process.  Certain state CON laws and regulations may restrict
the ability of operators to add new properties or expand an existing facility’s
size or services. In addition, CON laws may constrain the ability of an
operator to transfer responsibility for operating a particular facility to a
new operator.  If we have to replace a property operator who is excluded from
participating in a federal or state health care program (as discussed below),
our ability to replace the operator may be affected by a particular state’s CON
laws, regulations, and applicable guidance governing changes in provider
control.

With
respect to licensure, generally our long-term/post-acute care facilities and
acute care facilities are required to be licensed and certified for
participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal health care programs. 
This generally requires license renewals and compliance surveys on an annual or
bi-annual basis. The failure of our operators to maintain or renew any required
license or regulatory approval as well as the failure of our operators to
correct serious deficiencies identified in a compliance survey could require
those operators to discontinue operations at a property.  In addition, if a
property is found to be out of compliance with Medicare, Medicaid, or other
health care program conditions of participation, the property operator may be
excluded from participating in those government health care programs.  Any such
occurrence may impair an operator’s ability to meet their financial


obligations to us.  If we have to replace an
excluded-property operator, our ability to replace the operator may be affected
by federal and state laws, regulations, and applicable guidance governing
changes in provider control. This may result in payment delays, an inability to
find a replacement operator, a significant working capital commitment from us to
a new operator or other difficulties.

Reimbursement

The reimbursement methodologies applied to health care facilities continue to
evolve.  Federal and state authorities have considered and may seek to
implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may negatively
impact health care property operations.  The impact of any such changes, if
implemented, may result in a material adverse effect on our portfolio.  No
assurance can be given that current revenue sources or levels will be maintained. 
Accordingly, there can be no assurance that payments under a government health
care program are currently, or will be in the future, sufficient to fully
reimburse the property operators for their operating and capital expenses.  As
a result, an operator’s ability to meet its financial obligations to us could
be adversely impacted.

Seniors Housing Facilities (excluding long-term/post-acute care facilities).

Approximately 58% of our overall revenues
(including discontinued operations) for the year ended December 31, 2014 were
attributable to U.S. seniors housing facilities. The majority of the revenues
received by the operators of these facilities are from private pay sources. The
remaining revenue source is primarily Medicaid under certain waiver programs.
As a part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (“OBRA”) of 1981, Congress
established a waiver program enabling some states to offer Medicaid
reimbursement to assisted living providers as an alternative to institutional
long-term care services. The provisions of OBRA and the subsequent OBRA Acts of
1987 and 1990 permit states to seek a waiver from typical Medicaid requirements
to develop cost-effective alternatives to long-term care, including Medicaid
payments for assisted living and home health. As of September 30, 2014, 14 of
our 38 seniors housing operators received Medicaid reimbursement pursuant to
Medicaid waiver programs. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2014,
approximately 2% of the revenues at our seniors housing facilities were from
Medicaid reimbursement. There can be no guarantee that a state Medicaid program
operating pursuant to a waiver will be able to maintain its waiver status.

Rates paid by self-pay residents are set by the facilities and are determined
by local market conditions and operating costs. Generally, facilities receive a
higher payment per day for a private pay resident than for a Medicaid
beneficiary who requires a comparable level of care. The level of Medicaid
reimbursement varies from state to state.  Thus, the revenues generated by
operators of our assisted living facilities may be adversely affected by payor
mix, acuity level, changes in Medicaid eligibility, and reimbursement levels. 
In addition, a state could lose its Medicaid waiver and no longer be permitted
to utilize Medicaid dollars to reimburse for assisted living services. Changes
in revenues could in turn have a material adverse effect on an operator’s
ability to meet its obligations to us.

Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities

.  Approximately 13% of our overall
revenues (including discontinued operations) for the year ended December 31,
2014 were attributable to long-term/post-acute care facilities.  The majority
of the revenues received by the operators of these facilities are from the
Medicare and Medicaid programs, with the balance representing reimbursement
payments from private payors, including private insurers. Consequently, changes
in federal or state reimbursement policies may adversely affect an operator’s
ability to cover its expenses, including our rent or debt service. 
Long-term/post-acute care facilities are subject to periodic pre- and
post-payment reviews, and other audits by federal and state authorities.  A
review or audit of a property operator’s claims could result in recoupments,
denials, or delay of payments in the future, which could have a material
adverse effect on the operator’s ability to meet its financial obligations to
us.  Due to the significant judgments and estimates inherent in payor
settlement accounting, no assurance can be given as to the adequacy of any
reserves maintained by our property operators to cover potential adjustments to
reimbursements, or to cover settlements made to payors. Recent attention on
billing practices, payments, and quality of care, or ongoing government
pressure to reduce spending by government health care programs, could result in
lower payments to long-term/post-acute care facilities and, as a result, may
impair an operator’s ability to meet its financial obligations to us.

Medicare Reimbursement and Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities.

For the
twelve months ended September 30, 2014, approximately 34% of the revenues at
our long-term/post-acute care facilities were paid by Medicare. Generally,
long-term/post-acute care facilities are reimbursed under the Medicare Skilled
Nursing Facility Prospective Payment System (“SNF PPS”), the Inpatient
Rehabilitation Facility Prospective Payment System (“IRF PPS”), or the Long
Term Care Hospital Prospective Payment System (“LTCH PPS”).  There is a risk
under these payment systems that costs will exceed the fixed payments, or that
payments may be set below the costs to provide certain items and services,
which could result in immediate financial difficulties for operators, and could
cause operators to seek bankruptcy protection.

The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”), an agency of HHS,
made positive payment updates for the 2015 fiscal year under the SNF PSS, the
IRF PPS and the LTCH PPS.

·

On August 5, 2014, CMS issued a
final rule for the SNF PPS. Under the final rule, skilled nursing facilities
(“SNFs”) will receive a net rate increase of 2.0%, accounting for adjustments,
such as the multifactor productivity adjustment. CMS estimates aggregate
payments to SNFs will increase by $750 million in fiscal year 2015.


·

On August 6, 2014, CMS issued a
final rule for the IRF PPS. Under the final rule, inpatient rehabilitation
facilities (“IRFs”) will receive a net rate increase of 2.2%, accounting for
adjustments, such as the multifactor productivity adjustment. CMS estimates
aggregate payments to IRFs will increase by $180 million in fiscal year 2015.

·

On August 22, 2014, CMS issued a
final rule for the LTCH PPS. Under the final rule, long-term care hospitals
(“LTCHs”) will receive a net rate increase of 0.9%, accounting for adjustments
including, but not limited to, a multifactor productivity adjustment and the
phase-in of a budget neutrality adjustment.  Including other changes, CMS
estimates aggregate payments to LTCHs will increase by $62 million in fiscal
year 2015.

On December 26, 2014, the President signed into law the Pathway for SGR Reform
Act (“SGR Reform”). SGR Reform implemented several changes to the Medicare
payment rules for LTCHs. For a discharge in cost reporting periods beginning on
or after October 1, 2015, specified cases in LTCHs will receive the
“applicable” site-neutral payment rate. Specifically, payment rates will be
blended for discharges in cost reporting periods beginning in fiscal year 2016
and fiscal year 2017, consisting of half of the site neutral payment rate and
half of the payment rate that would otherwise apply, and then shift to all
site-neutral payments in fiscal year 2018. Patients with a three-day stay in an
intensive care unit (“ICU”) prior to LTCH admission or ventilator patients with
at least 96 hours are exempted from the lower site-neutral payments if the
discharge does not have a principal diagnosis relating to a psychiatric
diagnosis or to rehabilitation. Beginning in fiscal year 2020, LTCHs are to
maintain at least 50% of patients that are excluded from the site-neutral
payments. SGR Reform also requires the Medicare Payment Advisory Committee
(“MedPAC”) to conduct a study and submit a report to Congress by June 30, 2019
that includes recommendations that address these changes to the LTCH payment
policies. Additionally, beginning in fiscal year 2016, calculation of length of
stay requirements for LTCHs will exclude any patients for whom payment is made
(i) at the site-neutral payment rate and (ii) under any Medicare Advantage
plan. SGR Reform also delayed implementation of a limit of no more than 25% of
patients referred from any one hospital (“25% Rule”) for another three years,
and the Secretary of HHS must issue a report in two years on the need for any
further extension or modifications to the 25% Rule. Finally, SGR Reform
reinstituted a moratorium on new LTCHs or any increase in LTCH beds from
January 1, 2015 through September 30, 2017.

On October 6, 2014, the President signed into law the Improving Medicare
Post-Acute Transformation Act of 2014 (“IMPACT Act”).  The law applies to SNFs,
LTCHs, IRFs and home health agencies and requires providers to report
standardized patient assessment data, data on quality measures, and data on
resource use and other measures.  The law requires public reporting of quality
and resource use and other measures.  MedPAC is required to submit a report to
Congress by June 30, 2016, evaluating and recommending features of a post-acute
payment system that establishes payment rates according to individual
characteristics instead of the post-acute setting where the patient is
treated.  The report must include a technical prototype for a post-acute
prospective payment system and the impact of moving from the current to the new
payment system.

On April 1, 2014, the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (“Access to
Medicare Act”) was enacted.  The Access to Medicare Act implements value-based
purchasing for SNFs. Beginning in fiscal year 2019, 2% of SNF payments will be
withheld and approximately 50% to 70% of the amount withheld will be paid to
SNFs through value-based payments.  SNFs will begin reporting a readmissions
rate measure by October 1, 2015 and a resource use measure by October 1, 2016. 
Both measures will be publicly available by October 1, 2017.

Medicare Reimbursement and Physicians.

CMS annually adjusts the
Medicare Physician Fee Schedule payment rates based on an update formula that
includes application of the Sustainable Growth Rate (“SGR”).  On November 13,
2014, CMS published the calendar year 2015 Physician Fee Schedule final rule,
which called for a negative 21.2% update under the statutory SGR formula.  The
Budget Act and Access to Medicare Act avoided, until March 31, 2015, the
reimbursement cuts that would have occurred.  Congress has overridden the
required reduction every year since 2003.  The final rule continues
implementation of quality and cost measures that will be used in establishing a
new value−based modifier that would adjust physician payments based on
whether they are providing higher quality and more efficient care. The Health
Reform Laws, as defined below, require CMS to begin making payment adjustments
to certain physicians and physician groups on January 1, 2015, and to apply the
modifier to all physicians by January 1, 2017. Calendar year 2013 is the
initial performance year for purposes of adjusting payments in calendar year
2015.

Medicaid Reimbursement and Long-Term/Post-Acute Care Facilities.

For
the twelve months ended September 30, 2014, approximately 42% of the revenues
of long-term/post-acute care facilities were paid by Medicaid. The federal and
state governments share responsibility for financing Medicaid. The federal
matching rate, known as the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (“FMAP”),
varies by state based on relative per capita income, but is at least 50% in all
states.  Medicaid is the largest component of total state spending,
representing approximately 25.8% of total state expenditures in state fiscal
year 2014. The percentage of Medicaid dollars for long-term/post-acute care
facilities varies from state to state, due in part to different ratios of
elderly population and eligibility requirements.  Within certain federal guidelines,
states have a fairly wide range of discretion to determine eligibility and
reimbursement methodology.  Many states reimburse SNFs, for example, using
fixed daily rates, which are applied prospectively based on patient acuity and
the historical costs incurred in providing patient care.  Reasonable costs
typically include allowances for staffing, administrative and general expenses,
property, and equipment (e.g., real estate taxes, depreciation and fair
rental).


In most states, Medicaid does not fully reimburse
the cost of providing services.  Certain states are attempting to slow the rate
of Medicaid growth by freezing rates or restricting eligibility and benefits. 
Average Medicaid rates for our long-term/post-acute care facilities will likely
vary throughout the year as states continue to make interim changes to their
budgets and Medicaid funding. In addition, Medicaid reimbursement rates may
decline if revenues in a particular state are not sufficient to fund budgeted
expenditures.

Health Reform Laws.

On March 23,
2010, the President signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act of 2010 (the “PPACA”) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act
of 2010, which amends the PPACA (collectively, the “Health Reform Laws”). The
Health Reform Laws contain various provisions that may directly impact us or
the operators and tenants of our properties. Some provisions of the Health
Reform Laws may have a positive impact on our operators’ or tenants’ revenues,
by, for example, increasing coverage of uninsured individuals, while others may
have a negative impact on the reimbursement of our operators or tenants by, for
example, altering the market basket adjustments for certain types of health
care facilities. The Health Reform Laws also enhance certain fraud and abuse
penalty provisions that could apply to our operators and tenants, in the event
of one or more violations of the federal health care regulatory laws. In
addition, there are provisions that impact the health coverage that we and our
operators and tenants provide to our respective employees.  The Health Reform
Laws also provide additional Medicaid funding to allow states to carry out the
expansion of Medicaid coverage to certain financially−eligible individuals
beginning in 2014, and have also permitted states to expand their Medicaid
coverage to these individuals since April 1, 2010, if certain conditions are
met.  On June 28, 2012, The United States Supreme Court upheld the individual
mandate of the Health Reform Laws but partially invalidated the expansion of
Medicaid. The ruling on Medicaid expansion will allow States not to participate
in the expansion – and to forego funding for the Medicaid expansion – without
losing their existing Medicaid funding. Given that the federal government
substantially funds the Medicaid expansion, it is unclear how many states will
ultimately pursue this option. The participation by states in the Medicaid
expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants’ revenues,
through new patients, but could also further strain state budgets. While the
federal government will pay for approximately 100% of those additional costs
from 2014 to 2016, states will be expected to pay for part of those additional
costs beginning in 2017.

We cannot predict whether the existing Health Reform Laws, or future health
care reform legislation or regulatory changes, will have a material impact on
our operators’ or tenants’ property or business. If the operations, cash flows
or financial condition of our operators and tenants are materially adversely
impacted by the Health Reform Laws or future legislation, our revenue and
operations may be adversely affected as well.

Other Related Laws

Long-term/post-acute care facilities (and seniors housing facilities that
receive Medicaid payments) are subject to federal, state, and local laws,
regulations, and applicable guidance that govern the operations and financial
and other arrangements that may be entered into by health care providers.  Certain
of these laws prohibit direct or indirect payments of any kind for the purpose
of inducing or encouraging the referral of patients for medical products or
services reimbursable by government health care programs. Other laws require
providers to furnish only medically necessary services and submit to the
government valid and accurate statements for each service.  Still other laws
require providers to comply with a variety of safety, health and other
requirements relating to the condition of the licensed property and the quality
of care provided.  Sanctions for violations of these laws, regulations, and
other applicable guidance may include, but are not limited to, criminal and/or
civil penalties and fines, loss of licensure, immediate termination of government
payments, and exclusion from any government health care program.  In certain
circumstances, violation of these rules (such as those prohibiting abusive and
fraudulent behavior) with respect to one property may subject other facilities
under common control or ownership to sanctions, including exclusion from
participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, as well as other
government health care programs.  In the ordinary course of its business, a
property operator is regularly subjected to inquiries, investigations, and
audits by the federal and state agencies that oversee these laws and
regulations.

Long-term/post-acute care facilities (and seniors housing facilities that
receive Medicaid payments) are also subject to the Federal Anti-Kickback
Statute, which generally prohibits persons from offering, providing,
soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce either the referral of an
individual or the furnishing of a good or service for which payment may be made
under a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid.
Long-term/post-acute care facilities are also subject to the Federal Ethics in
Patient Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the Stark Law.  The Stark
Law generally prohibits the submission of claims to Medicare for payment if the
claim results from a physician referral for certain designated services and the
physician has a financial relationship with the health service provider that
does not qualify under one of the exceptions for a financial relationship under
the Stark Law.  Similar prohibitions on physician self-referrals and submission
of claims apply to state Medicaid programs. Further, long-term/post-acute care
facilities (and seniors housing facilities that receive Medicaid payments), are
subject to substantial financial penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties
Act and the Federal False Claims Act and, in particular, actions under the
Federal False Claims Act’s “whistleblower” provisions.  Private enforcement of
health care fraud has increased due in large part to amendments to the Federal
False Claims Act that encourage private individuals to sue on behalf of the
government. These whistleblower suits brought by private individuals, known as

qui
tam

actions, may be filed by almost anyone, including present and former
patients, nurses and other employees. Significantly, if a claim is successfully
adjudicated, the Federal False Claims Act provides for treble damages up to
$11,000 per claim.


Prosecutions, investigations, or whistleblower actions could have a material
adverse effect on a property operator’s liquidity, financial condition, and
operations, which could adversely affect the ability of the operator to meet
its financial obligations to us.  Finally, various state false claim act and anti-kickback
laws may also apply to each property operator.  Violation of any of the
foregoing statutes can result in criminal and/or civil penalties that could
have a material adverse effect on the ability of an operator to meet its
financial obligations to us.

Other legislative developments, including the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), have greatly expanded the definition of
health care fraud and related offenses and broadened its scope to include
private health care plans in addition to government payors.  Congress also has
greatly increased funding for the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of
Investigation and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of
Health and Human Services to audit, investigate and prosecute suspected health
care fraud.  Moreover, a significant portion of the billions in health care
fraud recoveries over the past several years has also been returned to
government agencies to further fund their fraud investigation and prosecution
efforts.

Additionally, other HIPAA provisions and regulations provide for communication
of health information through standard electronic transaction formats and for
the privacy and security of health information.  In order to comply with the regulations,
health care providers often must undertake significant operational and
technical implementation efforts.  Operators also may face significant
financial exposure if they fail to maintain the privacy and security of medical
records and other personal health information about individuals. The Health
Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (“HITECH”) Act, passed
in February 2009, strengthened the HHS Secretary’s authority to impose civil
money penalties for HIPAA violations occurring after February 18, 2009. HITECH
directs the HHS Secretary to provide for periodic audits to ensure covered
entities and their business associates (as that term is defined under HIPAA)
comply with the applicable HITECH requirements, increasing the likelihood that
a HIPAA violation will result in an enforcement action.  CMS issued an interim
Final Rule which conformed HIPAA enforcement regulations to the HITECH Act,
increasing the maximum penalty for multiple violations of a single requirement
or prohibition to $1.5 million.  Higher penalties may accrue for violations of
multiple requirements or prohibitions.  Additionally, on January 17, 2013, CMS
released a final rule, which expands the applicability of HIPAA and HITECH and
strengthens the government’s ability to enforce these laws.  The final rule
broadens the definition of “business associate” and provides for civil money
penalty liability against covered entities and business associates for the acts
of their agents regardless of whether a business associate agreement is in
place. This rule also modified the standard for when a breach of unsecured
personally identifiable health information must be reported.  Some covered
entities have entered into settlement agreements with HHS for allegedly failing
to adopt policies and procedures sufficient to implement the breach
notification provisions in the HITECH Act.  Additionally, the final rule adopts
certain changes to the HIPAA enforcement regulations to incorporate the
increased and tiered civil monetary penalty structure provided by HITECH, and
makes business associates of covered entities directly liable under HIPAA for
compliance with certain of the HIPAA privacy standards and HIPAA security
standards.  HIPAA violations are also potentially subject to criminal
penalties.

In November 2002, CMS began an ongoing national Nursing Home Quality Initiative
(“NHQI”). Under this initiative, historical survey information, the NHQI Pilot
Evaluation Report and the NHQI Overview is made available to the public on-line.
The NHQI website provides consumer and provider information regarding the
quality of care in nursing homes. The data allows consumers, providers, states,
and researchers to compare quality information that shows how well nursing
homes are caring for their residents’ physical and clinical needs. The posted
nursing home quality measures come from resident assessment data that nursing
homes routinely collect on the residents at specified intervals during their
stay. If the operators of nursing facilities are unable to achieve quality of
care ratings that are comparable or superior to those of their competitors,
they may lose market share to other facilities, reducing their revenues and
adversely impacting their ability to make rental payments.

Finally, government investigations and enforcement actions brought against the
health care industry have increased dramatically over the past several years
and are expected to continue.  Some of these enforcement actions represent
novel legal theories and expansions in the application of the Federal False
Claims Act.  The costs for an operator of a health care property associated
with both defending such enforcement actions and the undertakings in settling
these actions can be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on
the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us.

United
Kingdom

Registration

In England, care home services are
principally regulated by the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (the

“Act”) and associated Regulations.

The Act requires all persons carrying out “Regulated
Activities” in England, and the managers of such persons, to be registered.
Regulated Activities are defined in the Health and Social Care Act 2008
(Regulated Activities) Regulations 2010, as amended (the “2010 Regulations”),
and include (among other activities):

·

The provision of personal care for
persons who, by reason of old age, illness or disability are unable to provide
it for themselves, and which is provided in a place where those persons are
living at the time the care is provided; and


·

The provision of residential
accommodation, together with nursing or personal care.

Any person who carries on a regulated
activity without being registered in respect of that activity is guilty of an
offense under the Act. A person guilty of an offense is liable on summary
conviction, to a fine of up to £50,000, or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months, or both, and on conviction on indictment, to a fine, or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or to both.

From April 1, 2015, the 2010 Regulations will be fully
revoked by the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (Regulated Activities)
Regulations 2014 (the “2014 Regulations”). While the 2014 Regulations introduce
certain modifications with regard to service standards, the registration
obligations under the Act remain.

Under the Care Quality Commission
(Registration) Regulations 2009, as amended, service providers and managers of
Regulated Activities must provide documentation demonstrating their ability to
provide the relevant service(s); in particular, registrants must be able to
demonstrate that they (or a nominated individual, if the registered person is a
company) possess good character, are physically and mentally fit to carry on
the regulated activity and have the necessary qualifications, skills and
experience to do so.

Service Standards and Notification
Obligations

The 2010 Regulations list the standards
that must be met when providing care services. The service providers’ legal
obligations include:

·

Ensuring service users are
protected against receiving care or treatment that is inappropriate or unsafe;

·

Assessing and monitoring the
quality of service provision;

·

Safeguarding service users from
abuse;

·

Ensuring that service users and
others are protected against risks of a healthcare associated infection;

·

Protecting service users against
risks in relation to the unsafe use of medicines;

·

Meeting the nutritional needs of
service users;

·

Ensuring that the premises are
safe and suitable;

·

Ensuring that any equipment used
is safe, suitable and readily available when required;

·

Respecting and involving service
users;

·

Obtaining and acting in accordance
with the consent of service users to care and treatment;

·

Having in place an effective
complaints system;

·

Maintaining accurate records;

·

Operating effective recruitment
procedures; and

·

Having sufficient numbers of
suitably qualified, skilled and experienced employees and supporting workers
through training, professional development, supervision, appraisals and
qualifications.

Failure to comply with certain provisions
of the above Regulations is an offense, with a person guilty of the offense
liable on summary conviction to a fine of up to £50,000.  Monetary penalty
notices may also be issued.

From April 1, 2015, the 2010 Regulations will be fully
revoked by the 2014 Regulations. The 2014 Regulations aim to streamline the
legal obligations in the 2010 Regulations, and replace them with a set of more
broadly-phrased, legally binding “Fundamental Standards” largely based on
existing obligations in the 2010 Regulations.

While the obligations listed above will continue to
exist in line with the new “Fundamental Standards,” the 2014 Regulations
introduce a number of changes including:

·

A new “duty of candour” to notify
and apologize to affected persons, in the event of certain incidents having
actually or potentially led to the death of the service user, where the death
relates directly to the incident rather than to the natural course of the service
user's illness or underlying condition, or severe harm, moderate harm or
prolonged psychological harm to the service user (note that this requirement
came into force on November 27, 2014); and

·

More detailed standards to be met
by individuals to be eligible to act as a director of a service provider
institution. For instance, the individual should not have been responsible for,
been privy to, contributed to or facilitated any serious misconduct or
mismanagement (whether unlawful or not) in the course of carrying on a
regulated activity, or equivalent outside of England (note that this
requirement came into force on November 27, 2014).

·

The provisions on penalties will
remain similar to the 2010 Regulations although the reference to a fine not
exceeding £50,000 will be removed from April 1, 2015.


Under the Care
Quality Commission (Registration) Regulations 2009 certain matters must be
notified to the Care Quality Commission (the “CQC”), the government regulatory
body overseeing the provision of nursing and other care services in England.
Events that must be notified include (among others):

·

Where the service provider or
registered manager proposes to be absent for a continuous period of 28 days or
more;

·

A change of the registered person
or where the registered person is a company changes in the name or address of
the registered person, a change of director, secretary or other similar
officer, or a change of the nominated individual;

·

The death of a service user;

·

Incidents resulting in an injury
(provided certain conditions are met);

·

Abuse and allegations of abuse in
relation to a service user; and

·

Any event which prevents, or
appears to the service provider to be likely to threaten to prevent, the
service provider’s ability to continue to carry on the regulated activity
safely, or in accordance with the registration requirements.

Failure to comply with the
above notification obligations is an offense and a person guilty of an offense
is liable on summary conviction to a fine of up to £2,500.  The amount of this
fine will be increased to £10,000 by a Statutory Instrument once coming into
force.

Regulatory Oversight and Inspections

The Act also sets out the powers and
responsibilities of the CQC. Among other powers, the CQC administers the
compulsory registration system and issues guidance to care service providers on
how to comply with applicable standards set out in legislation.

The CQC is also empowered to carry out
inspections of care home premises to verify compliance with the standards set
out in legislation. The CQC’s current policy is to carry out routine
unannounced inspections at care homes at least once a year. Reports of all
inspections in England are published, as are details of enforcement actions
taken by the CQC, which can include issuing warning notices, restricting the
services that the provider can offer, stopping admissions into the care
service, issuing fixed penalty notices, suspending or cancelling the service
registration and prosecution.

The Care Act 2014 sets out certain provisions which
are not yet in force concerning (among others):

·

The duty of a local authority to
meet the needs of an adult for care and support and a carer’s needs where the
registered care provider is unable to carry on a regulated activity because of
business failure;

·

The duty of the CQC to assess the
financial sustainability of providers subject to its regulatory regime with a
view to identifying any threats that such providers may face to their financial
sustainability. Where the CQC identifies a significant risk to financial
sustainability it can require the provider to develop a sustainability plan
setting out the provider’s plan to mitigate or eliminate risk or require the
provider to organize an independent review of the business with the costs being
recovered from the provider; and

·

A new offense where certain
registered care providers supply, publish or make available information that is
false or misleading in a material respect.

Financial Assistance for Service
Users

Financial assistance for service users towards care
home fees is available from local authorities and is means-tested. The National
Health Service may also, in certain circumstances, contribute towards the costs
of nursing care.

Privacy

In the European Union (“EU”), data protection is
governed by the EU Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC (the “Data Protection
Directive”). The Data Protection Directive has been implemented in the UK by
the Data Protection Act 1998 (the “Act”) which entered into force on March 2000
and is enforced by the Information Commissioner’s Office (“ICO”).

The Act applies to a data controller that processes
personal data in the context of an establishment in the UK, or where not
established in the UK, in any other State of the European Economic Area
(“EEA”), processes personal data through equipment located in the UK other than
for the purposes of transit through the UK. Under the Act, a data controller is
the person who (either alone or jointly or in common with other persons)
determines the purposes for which and the manner in which any personal data
are, or are to be, processed. Personal data is widely defined as data which
relates to a living individual who can be identified from those data, or from those
data and other information which is in the possession of, or is likely to come
into the possession of, the data controller. Sensitive personal data is
personal data consisting of information as to the racial or ethnic origin of
the data subject; his/her political opinions, religious beliefs or other
beliefs of a similar nature; whether he/she is a member of a trade union;
his/her physical or mental health or condition; his/her sexual life; and the
commission or alleged commission by him/her of an offense, any proceedings for
any


offense committed or alleged to have been
committed by him/her, the disposal of such proceedings, or the sentence of any
court in such proceedings.

The Act imposes a number of obligations on the
data controller contained in eight Data Protection Principles: (i) personal
data must be processed fairly and lawfully, (ii) personal data must be
processed for specified and lawful purposes, (iii) personal data must be
adequate, relevant and not excessive, (iv) personal data must be accurate and
up to date, (v) personal data must not be kept for longer than necessary, (vi)
personal data must be processed in accordance with the rights of data subjects,
(vii) appropriate technical and organizational measures shall be taken against
unauthorized or unlawful processing of personal data and against accidental
loss or destruction of, or damage to, personal data; and (viii) there is a
prohibition on transfers of personal data to countries outside the EEA that are
not deemed by the European Commission to provide an adequate level of
protection, which includes the U.S., unless certain exemptions under the Act
apply.

The ICO has a number of enforcement powers
available which includes, in certain limited cases, criminal prosecution and
non-criminal enforcement and audits.  In case of a breach of the Act, the ICO
may: (i) provide practical advice to organizations on how they should handle
data protection matters; (ii) issue undertakings committing an organization to
a particular course of action in order to improve its compliance; (iii) serve
enforcement notices where there has been a breach, requiring organizations to
take (or refrain from taking) specified steps in order to ensure they comply
with the law; (iv) conduct consensual assessments (audits) to determine if
organizations are complying; (v) serve assessment notices to conduct compulsory
audits to assess whether organizations’ processing of personal data follows
good data protection practices; (vi) issue monetary penalty notices requiring
organizations to pay up to £500,000 for serious breaches of the Act occurring
on or after April 6, 2010 or serious breaches of the Privacy and Electronic
Communications Regulations occurring after May 26, 2011; and (vii) prosecute
those who commit criminal offenses under the Act.  Under the Act, individuals
also have the right to claim compensation from an organization in respect of
damage caused by a breach of any of the requirements of the Act.

There is a proposal for an EU Data
Protection Regulation which would replace the Data Protection Directive and
impose a significant number of new obligations including, among others, a
requirement to appoint data protection officers, having detailed documentation
on the processing of personal data, carrying out privacy impact assessments in
certain circumstances, providing standardized data protection notices,
reporting security breaches without undue delay, and providing certain rights
to individuals such as a right of erasure of personal data. The EU Data Protection
Regulation is to have significant enforcement powers with fines proposed by the
European Commission of up 2% of annual worldwide turnover and with fines
proposed by the European Parliament of up to 5% of annual worldwide turnover or
€100 million, whichever is greater. The EU Data Protection Regulation may be
adopted sometime in 2015 with EU Member States possibly having two years to
implement the Regulation

.

Canada

Retirement homes and long-term care facilities are subject to regulation, and long-term
care facilities receive funding, under provincial law.  There is no federal
regulation in this area.  Set out below are summaries of the principal
regulatory requirements in the provinces where we have a material number of
facilities.

Licensing and Regulation

Alberta

In Alberta, there are three relevant designations for
seniors’ living arrangements, ordered below from the most independent to the
highest level of care.

Retirement Homes

(also referred to as independent living) are designed for older adults
who are able to live on their own. These communities may offer amenities such
as fitness centers, gardens, paths, libraries, and beauty salons. Residents may
access publicly-funded external care services at the home from funded external suppliers.

Alberta retirement residences may be rented, privately
owned, or life-leased. They may be operated for profit or non-profit.
Retirement residences typically do not offer support services but residents may
arrange support services separate from their accommodations.

Retirement homes do not generally receive government
funding; residents pay for tenancy and services received at retirement homes. 
Rental subsidies may be available to qualified seniors.

Alberta Independent Living residences are legislated
under the Residential Tenancies Act, SA 2004, c R-17.1 and the Alberta Housing
Act, RSA 2000, c A-25.


Supportive Living

(also referred to as assisted living) provides accommodation in a
home-like setting, where residents can remain as independent as possible while
still having access to necessary care, assistance, and services. A provider of
designated Supportive Living services provides at least one meal a day or
housekeeping services. Supportive living includes many different types of
facilities, including seniors lodges, group homes, and mental health and
designated supportive living accommodations. These facilities can be operated
by private for-profit, private not-for-profit, or public operators.

Supportive Living services are licensed under the
Supportive Living Accommodation Licensing Act, SA 2009, c S-23.5, and the
Supportive Living Accommodation Licensing Regulation, Alta Reg 40/2010. They
are governed by the Ministry of Health.

Operators that receive public funds, either directly
or indirectly, for health and personal care services must also comply with the
Ministry of Health Continuing Care Health Service Standards (March 2007, and
revised). They are also subject to the Protection for Persons in Care Act, SA
2009, c P-29.1, under which the province investigates suspected abuse of adults
receiving government-funded care services.

Licenses may be granted for periods of six months to
three years, depending on how long the facility has been licensed, and
depending on past reports. The Ministry, through a designated director, may
conduct inspections of facilities and review records. The Director may order a
delinquent facility to take specific steps or to stop certain practices or may
temporarily stop operations; alternatively, the facility’s license may be
suspended.

There are four levels of supportive living, ordered
from basic to more advance care: (1) Residential Living (residents can manage
most daily tasks and direct own care and assistance can be scheduled); (2)
Lodge Living (residents can manage some daily tasks and direct own care and
assistance can be scheduled, although some non-scheduled assistance may be
required); (3) Assisted Living (residents require assistance with many daily
tasks, with increased scheduled and some non-scheduled assistance required);
(4) Enhanced Level (residents require assistance with most or all daily tasks
and frequent unscheduled assistance). In addition, there are two specialized
designations of Supportive Care: (1) Alberta Enhanced Assisted Living (also
referred to as Enhanced Lodges or Alberta Designated Supportive Living Level 4
(SL4) (provides 24-hour scheduled and unscheduled professional, personal care
and support services provided by Licensed Practical Nurses and Health Care
Aides); and (2) Enhanced Assisted Living Dementia Care Sites (also referred to
as Designated Supportive Living Level 4 Dementia (SL4-D)) (provides assisted
living for seniors living with cognitive impairments (such as Alzheimer’s
disease or other types of dementia) who require safe and secure living
accommodation in a therapeutic environment).

Residents pay a fee to cover the costs of providing
accommodations and services like meals, housekeeping and building maintenance.
The accommodation fee varies by accommodation type and the services or
amenities that are available to the resident. Alberta Health regulates the
maximum accommodation fee in publicly-funded designated supportive living. In
other types of supportive living settings, the operator sets the cost of
accommodation. Health services are publicly-funded and provided through Alberta
Health Services. Private sector operators of Supportive Living facilities are
eligible to apply for funding under the Affordable Supportive Living Initiative
(“ASLI”), an Alberta government capital grant program that provides funding to
develop long-term care and affordable supportive living spaces in the province.

Nursing Homes

(also referred to as long-term care) are for residents who have complex,
unpredictable medical needs and who require 24-hour on-site registered nurse
assessment or treatment.

Nursing homes are subject to the Nursing Homes Act,
RSA 2000, c N-7, and the Nursing Home General Regulation, Alta Reg 232/1985,
and Long-term Care Accommodation Standards. They are governed by the Ministry
of Health.

Nursing home operators are not licensed, but enter
into agreements with the Ministry for the operation of nursing homes. These
facilities can be operated by private for-profit, private not-for-profit, or
public operators.

All operators must comply with the Ministry of Health
Long-term Care Accommodation Standards (March 2007, and revised). Operators
that receive public funds, either directly or indirectly, for health and
personal care services must also comply with the Continuing Care Health Service
Standards and are subject to the Protection for Persons in Care Act.

The Ministry may conduct inspections of facilities and
review records. Deficient facilities may be ordered to submit a correction
plan.

Residents pay an accommodation fee to cover the costs
of providing accommodations and services like meals, housekeeping and building
maintenance. Alberta Health regulates the maximum accommodation fee in
publicly-funded long-term care facilities. In other types of supportive living
settings, the accommodation fee is set by the operator. Health services in
long-term care are publicly-funded


and provided
through Alberta Health Services. Private sector operators of nursing homes are
eligible to apply for funding under the ASLI. The Minister may make grants to
an operator in respect of its operating or capital costs as prescribed by the
regulations.

Ontario

Long-term care facilities, or nursing homes, receive government funding, are
licensed under the Long-Term Care Homes Act, 2007

and are governed by
the Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care.  The LTC Homes Act places a strong
emphasis on the protection of residents.

Retirement homes in Ontario are regulated under the Retirement Homes Act, 2010
(the “Act”).  Retirement homes do not receive any government funding; residents
pay for tenancy and services received at retirement homes.  Residents may
access publicly-funded external care services at the home from funded external
suppliers.

A license is required to operate a retirement home.  Licenses must be applied
for and are non-transferable.  Applications for licenses are directed to the
Registrar of the Retirement Homes Regulatory Authority (RHRA).  All of the
homes in which we have an interest in Ontario are licensed as retirement homes.
One of the homes also has some licensed long-term care beds.

Licenses can have conditions imposed upon them or can be suspended in
circumstances where the operator is found to be in contravention of the Act. 
There is no set renewal period for licenses, and they terminate according to
the terms set out in the license itself, or if one of the enumerated triggering
mechanisms occurs (for example, if the operator ceases to have controlling
interest in the license).

The
licensee of a retirement home must ensure that the care provided by the home
meets prescribed standards.  The Act and its regulations include a number of
detailed provisions with respect to care standards, safety plans in the event
of emergency or infectious disease, temperature control, cleanliness, pest
control, maintenance, food preparations, risk of resident falls and behavioral
management, among other things.  A care plan must be developed for each
resident of the home (with their consent). The Act establishes a Residents’
Bill of Rights, which provides residents with a list of rights, such as the
right to participate fully in decision-making with respect to care, the right
not to be restrained and the right to know what care services are provided and
their cost.  The Residents’ Bill of Rights can be enforced as a contract.

The Act requires a report to the RHRA when any person has reasonable grounds to
suspect abuse of a resident by anyone, or neglect of a resident by staff. 
Following a report to the RHRA, there is a mandatory inspection carried out by
the RHRA, which results in a report that is posted on the RHRA’s public
website. The most recent report must also be posted in the subject home, and be
readily available for review if requested thereafter.

The Registrar of the RHRA has the power to inspect a retirement home at any
time without warning or issue a warrant to ensure compliance with the Act. 
Compliance inspections occur at least every three years. The Registrar has the
power to make a variety of orders including, for example, the imposition of a
fine or an order revoking the operator’s license.  There is an appeal process
in place with respect to orders made by the Registrar.  The Act also enumerates
offenses, such as operating without a license, and provides for penalties for
offenses.

British Columbia

The Community Care and Assisted Living Act, the Residential Care Regulation,
and the Community Care and Assisted Living Regulation

(together, the
“B.C. Act”) regulate “community care facilities” (long-term care facilities) in
substantially the same manner as retirement homes are regulated under the
Ontario Act. The B.C. Act defines such a facility as premises used for the
purpose of supervising vulnerable persons who require three or more prescribed
services.

The B.C. Act also creates a separate regime for regulating “assisted living
residences,” which are facilities providing at least one but not more than two
prescribed care services. Assisted living residences are designed for those who
can live independently, but who require assistance with certain activities.
Unlike community care facilities, assisted living residences must be registered
with the registrar of assisted living residences, but do not require a license.
Nevertheless, assisted living residences must be operated in a manner that does
not jeopardize the health or safety of its residents. If the registrar has
reason to believe a residence is not being operated in accordance with this
standard, the registrar may inspect the assisted living residence and may
suspend or cancel a registration.  Most of the residences in which we have an
interest in B.C. are assisted living residences, with one being an independent
living residence.

Independent living residences offer housing and hospitality services for
retired adults who are functionally independent and able to direct their own
care.   Services available for residents can include, for example, meals,
housekeeping, monitoring and emergency support, social and recreational
opportunities, and transportation.


Québec

In Québec, retirement homes are regulated by the Act respecting Health Services
and Social Services (the “Act”) and the Regulation respecting the conditions
for obtaining a certificate of compliance and the operating standards for a
private seniors' residence (the “Regulation”), which refer to “private seniors’
residences.” Private seniors’ residences in Québec are required to obtain a
certificate of compliance. The Regulation is currently in the process of being
amended.

A certificate of compliance is issued for a period of three years, is renewable
and can only be validly transferred to another person with the written
permission of the regional licensing agency. An agency may revoke a temporary
certificate, or revoke or refuse to issue or renew a certificate of compliance
if, among other things, the operator fails to comply with the Act and the
Regulation, although the decision of the applicable agency can be contested
before the Administrative Tribunal of Québec. The agency may also order the
residence to take corrective measures, further to an inspection, complaint
and/or investigation. The agency is authorized to inspect a residence, at any
reasonable time of day, in order to ascertain whether it complies with the Act
and the Regulation.

Private seniors’ residences may belong to either or both of the following two
categories: those offering services to independent elderly persons and those
offering services to semi-independent elderly persons. The operator of a
residence must, for each category, comply with the applicable criteria and
standards, with some exceptions provided for residences with fewer than six or
ten rooms or apartments. The Act and the Regulation set out a number of
detailed provisions with respect to residents’ health and safety (including
mandatory call-for-help systems, safety plans in the event of fire or
infectious disease, health assessments, permissible control measures, as well
as administration and distribution of medication), meal services and
recreation, content of residents’ files, disclosure of information to
residents, and staffing requirements, among other things.

Other Related Laws

Privacy

The services provided in our facilities are generally subject to privacy
legislation in Canada, including, in certain provinces, privacy laws
specifically related to personal health information.  Although the obligations
of custodians of personal health information in the various provinces differ to
some extent, they all include the obligation to protect the information.  The
organizations with which we have management agreements may be the custodian of
personal health information/personal information collected in connection with
the operation of our facilities.

Privacy laws in Canada are consent-based and require the implementation of a
privacy program involving policies, procedures and the designation of an
individual or team with primary responsibility for a custodian’s privacy law
compliance.  Mandatory breach notification is a requirement under some laws. 
Some laws require notification where personal health information/personal
information is processed or stored outside of Canada.  One provincial law (in
Quebec) provides for fines where an organization fails to perform required due
diligence before outsourcing activities involving personal information to a
service provider outside of the province.

Some privacy regulators in Canada have order-making authority and others are
ombudspersons who make recommendations that may only be enforced by a court.
Under a number of privacy laws, a finding by a regulator that a custodian has
breached the law creates a right to apply to a court for money damages.  In
some provinces there is a statutory civil cause of action for breach of
privacy. In other provinces, the courts have recognized a limited common law
cause of action for breach of privacy.

The powers of privacy regulators and penalties for violations of privacy law
vary according to the applicable law or are left to the courts.  To date,
penalties have generally not been monetary, although that may change depending
on decisions in connection with class actions.  Regulators have the authority
to make public the identity of a health information custodian that has been
found to have committed a breach, so that there is a reputational risk
associated with privacy law violations even where no monetary damages are
incurred. The notification of patients (mandatory under some privacy laws) and
other activities required to manage a privacy breach can give rise to
significant costs.

Other Legislation

Retirement homes may be
subject to residential tenancy laws, such that there can be restrictions on
rent increases and termination of tenancies, for instance.  Other provincial
legislation applicable to occupational health and safety, public health, and
the provision of community health care and funded long-term/post-acute care may
also apply to retirement homes.  In addition, municipal laws with respect to
matters such as fire safety, food services and zoning would also apply.

Taxation


Federal Income Tax
Considerations

The following summary of the taxation of the Company
and the material federal tax consequences to the holders of our debt and equity
securities is for general information only and is not tax advice. This summary
does not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to certain types
of holders of stock or securities (including, but not limited to, insurance
companies, tax-exempt entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers,
persons holding shares of common stock as part of a hedging, integrated
conversion, or constructive sale transaction or a straddle, traders in
securities that use a mark-to-market method of accounting for their securities,
investors in pass-through entities and foreign corporations and persons who are
not citizens or residents of the United States).

This summary does not discuss all of the aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to you in light of your particular
investment or other circumstances. In addition, this summary does not discuss
any state or local income taxation or foreign income taxation or other tax
consequences. This summary is based on current U.S. federal income tax
law. Subsequent developments in U.S. federal income tax law, including
changes in law or differing interpretations, which may be applied
retroactively, could have a material effect on the U.S. federal income tax
consequences of purchasing, owning and disposing of our securities as set forth
in this summary. Before you purchase our securities, you should consult your
own tax advisor regarding the particular U.S. federal, state, local,
foreign and other tax consequences of acquiring, owning and selling our
securities.

General

We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment
trust (a “REIT”) commencing with our first taxable year. We intend to continue
to operate in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT, but there is no guarantee
that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for subsequent years.
Qualification and taxation as a REIT depends upon our ability to meet a variety
of qualification tests imposed under federal income tax law with respect to
income, assets, distribution level and diversity of share ownership as
discussed below under “— Qualification as a REIT.” There can be no
assurance that we will be owned and organized and will operate in a manner so
as to qualify or remain qualified.

In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general,
we will not be subject to federal income tax on that portion of our REIT
taxable income or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders. We may,
however, be subject to tax at normal corporate rates on any taxable income or
capital gain not distributed. If we elect to retain and pay income tax on our
net long-term capital gains, stockholders are required to include their proportionate
share of our undistributed long-term capital gains in income, but they will
receive a refundable credit for their share of any taxes paid by us on such
gain.

Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to
federal income and excise tax as follows:

•     To the extent that we do not distribute all of
our net capital gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our
“REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the
undistributed amount at regular corporate tax rates;

•     We may be subject to the “alternative minimum
tax” (the “AMT”) on certain tax preference items to the extent that the AMT
exceeds our regular tax;

•     If we have net income from the sale or other
disposition of “foreclosure property” that is held primarily for sale to
customers in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income
from foreclosure property, such income will be taxed at the highest corporate
rate;

•     Any net income from prohibited transactions
(which are, in general, sales or other dispositions of property held primarily
for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, other than
dispositions of foreclosure property and dispositions of property due to an
involuntary conversion) will be subject to a 100% tax;

•     If we fail to satisfy either the 75% or 95%
gross income tests (as discussed below), but nonetheless maintain our
qualification as a REIT because certain other requirements are met, we will be
subject to a 100% tax on an amount equal to (1) the gross income attributable
to the greater of (i) 75% of our gross income over the amount of
qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75% gross income test (discussed
below) or (ii) 95% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying gross
income for purposes of the 95% gross income test (discussed below) multiplied
by (2) a fraction intended to reflect our profitability;

•     If we fail to distribute during each year at
least the sum of (1) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for the year,
(2) 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year (other than
capital gain that we elect to retain and pay tax on) and (3) any
undistributed taxable income from preceding periods, we will be subject to a 4%
excise tax on the excess of such required distribution over amounts actually distributed;

•     We will be subject to a 100% tax on the amount
of any rents from real property, deductions or excess interest paid to us by
any of our “taxable REIT subsidiaries” that would be reduced through
reallocation under certain federal income tax principles in


order
to more clearly reflect income of the taxable REIT subsidiary. See
“— Qualification as a REIT — Investments in Taxable REIT
Subsidiaries;” and

•     We may be subject to the corporate “alternative
minimum tax” on any items of tax preference, including any deductions of net
operating losses.

If we acquire any assets from a corporation, which is
or has been a “C” corporation, in a carryover basis transaction, we could be
liable for specified liabilities that are inherited from the “C” corporation. A
“C” corporation is generally defined as a corporation that is required to pay
full corporate level federal income tax. If we recognize gain on the
disposition of the assets during the ten-year period beginning on the date on
which the assets were acquired by us, then, to the extent of the assets’
“built-in gain” (i.e., the excess of the fair market value of the asset over
the adjusted tax basis in the asset, in each case determined as of the
beginning of the ten-year period), we will be subject to tax on the gain at the
highest regular corporate rate applicable. The results described in this
paragraph with respect to the recognition of built-in gain assume that the
built-in gain assets, at the time the built-in gain assets were subject to a
conversion transaction (either where a “C” corporation elected REIT status or a
REIT acquired the assets from a “C” corporation), were not treated as sold to
an unrelated party and gain recognized.  For those properties that are subject
to the built-in-gains tax, if triggered by a sale within the ten-year period
beginning on the date on which the properties were acquired by us, then the
potential amount of built-in-gains tax will be an additional factor when
considering a possible sale of the properties.  See Note 18 to our consolidated
financial statements for additional information regarding the built-in gains
tax.

Qualification as a REIT

A REIT is defined as a corporation, trust or
association:

(1)     which is managed by one or more trustees or
directors;

(2)     the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced
by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest;

(3)     which would be taxable as a domestic
corporation but for the federal income tax law relating to REITs;

(4)     which is neither a financial institution nor
an insurance company;

(5)     the beneficial ownership of which is held by
100 or more persons in each taxable year of the REIT except for its first
taxable year;

(6)     not more than 50% in value of the outstanding
stock of which is owned during the last half of each taxable year, excluding
its first taxable year, directly or indirectly, by or for five or fewer
individuals (which includes certain entities) (the “Five or Fewer
Requirement”); and

(7)     which meets certain income and asset tests
described below.

Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met
during the entire taxable year and condition (5) must be met during at
least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a
proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12 months. For purposes
of conditions (5) and (6), pension funds and certain other tax-exempt
entities are treated as individuals, subject to a “look-through” exception in
the case of condition (6).

Based on publicly available information, we believe we
have satisfied the share ownership requirements set forth in (5) and
(6) above. In addition, Article VI of our by-laws provides for
restrictions regarding ownership and transfer of shares. These restrictions are
intended to assist us in continuing to satisfy the share ownership requirements
described in (5) and (6) above. These restrictions, however, may not
ensure that we will, in all cases, be able to satisfy the share ownership
requirements described in (5) and (6) above.

We have complied with, and will continue to comply
with, regulatory rules to send annual letters to certain of our stockholders
requesting information regarding the actual ownership of our stock. If, despite
sending the annual letters, we do not know, or after exercising reasonable
diligence would not have known, whether we failed to meet the Five or Fewer
Requirement, we will be treated as having met the Five or Fewer Requirement. If
we fail to comply with these regulatory rules, we will be subject to a monetary
penalty. If our failure to comply was due to intentional disregard of the
requirement, the penalty would be increased. However, if our failure to comply
were due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty would be
imposed.

We may own a number of properties through wholly owned
subsidiaries. A corporation will qualify as a “qualified REIT subsidiary” if
100% of its stock is owned by a REIT, and the REIT does not elect to treat the
subsidiary as a taxable REIT subsidiary.


A “qualified
REIT subsidiary” will not be treated as a separate corporation, and all assets,
liabilities and items of income, deductions and credits of a “qualified REIT
subsidiary” will be treated as assets, liabilities and items (as the case may
be) of the REIT. A “qualified REIT subsidiary” is not subject to federal income
tax, and our ownership of the voting stock of a qualified REIT subsidiary will
not violate the restrictions against ownership of securities of any one issuer
which constitute more than 10% of the value or total voting power of such issuer
or more than 5% of the value of our total assets, as described below under
“— Asset Tests.”

If we invest in a partnership, a limited liability
company or a trust taxed as a partnership or as a disregarded entity, we will
be deemed to own a proportionate share of the partnership’s, limited liability
company’s or trust’s assets. Likewise, we will be treated as receiving our
share of the income and loss of the partnership, limited liability company or
trust, and the gross income will retain the same character in our hands as it
has in the hands of the partnership, limited liability company or trust. These
“look-through” rules apply for purposes of the income tests and assets tests
described below.

Income Tests.

There
are two separate percentage tests relating to our sources of gross income that
we must satisfy for each taxable year.

•     At least 75% of our gross income (excluding
gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from “rents from real
property,” other income from investments relating to real property or mortgages
on real property or certain income from qualified temporary investments.

•     At least 95% of our gross income (excluding
gross income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be
directly or indirectly derived each taxable year from any of the sources
qualifying for the 75% gross income test and from dividends (including
dividends from taxable REIT subsidiaries) and interest.

As to transactions entered into in taxable years
beginning after October 22, 2004 and on or prior to July 30, 2008, any of
our income from a “clearly identified” hedging transaction that is entered into
by us in the normal course of business, directly or indirectly, to manage the
risk of interest rate movements, price changes or currency fluctuations with
respect to borrowings or obligations incurred or to be incurred by us, or such
other risks that are prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, is excluded
from the 95% gross income test.

For transactions entered into after July 30,
2008, any of our income from a “clearly identified” hedging transaction that is
entered into by us in the normal course of business, directly or indirectly, to
manage the risk of interest rate movements, price changes or currency
fluctuations with respect to borrowings or obligations incurred or to be
incurred by us is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.

For transactions entered into after July 30,
2008, any of our income from a “clearly identified” hedging transaction entered
into by us primarily to manage risk of currency fluctuations with respect to
any item of income or gain that is included in gross income in the 95% and 75%
gross income tests is excluded from the 95% and 75% gross income tests.

In general, a hedging transaction is “clearly
identified” if (1) the transaction is identified as a hedging transaction
before the end of the day on which it is entered into and (2) the items or
risks being hedged are identified “substantially contemporaneously” with the
hedging transaction. An identification is not substantially contemporaneous if
it is made more than 35 days after entering into the hedging transaction.

As to gains and items of income recognized after
July 30, 2008, “passive foreign exchange gain” for any taxable year will
not constitute gross income for purposes of the 95% gross income test and “real
estate foreign exchange gain” for any taxable year will not constitute gross
income for purposes of the 75% gross income test. Real estate foreign exchange
gain is foreign currency gain (as defined in Internal Revenue Code
Section 988(b)(1)) which is attributable to: (i) any qualifying item
of income or gain for purposes of the 75% gross income test; (ii) the
acquisition or ownership of obligations secured by mortgages on real property
or interests in real property; or (iii) becoming or being the obligor
under obligations secured by mortgages on real property or on interests in real
property. Real estate foreign exchange gain also includes Internal Revenue Code
Section 987 gain attributable to a qualified business unit (a “QBU”) of a
REIT if the QBU itself meets the 75% gross income test for the taxable year and
the 75% asset test at the close of each quarter that the REIT has directly or
indirectly held the QBU. Real estate foreign exchange gain also includes any
other foreign currency gain as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.
Passive foreign exchange gain includes all real estate foreign exchange gain
and foreign currency gain which is attributable to: (i) any qualifying
item of income or gain for purposes of the 95% gross income test; (ii) the
acquisition or ownership of obligations; (iii) becoming or being the
obligor under obligations; and (iv) any other foreign currency gain as
determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.

Generally, other than income from “clearly identified”
hedging transactions entered into by us in the normal course of business, any
foreign currency gain derived by us from dealing, or engaging in substantial
and regular trading, in securities will constitute gross income which does not
qualify under the 95% or 75% gross income tests.


Rents received by us will qualify as “rents from real
property” for purposes of satisfying the gross income tests for a REIT only if
several conditions are met:

•     The amount of rent must not be based in whole or
in part on the income or profits of any person, although rents generally will
not be excluded merely because they are based on a fixed percentage or
percentages of receipts or sales.

•     Rents received from a tenant will not qualify as
rents from real property if the REIT, or an owner of 10% or more of the REIT,
also directly or constructively owns 10% or more of the tenant, unless the
tenant is our taxable REIT subsidiary and certain other requirements are met
with respect to the real property being rented.

•     If rent attributable to personal property leased
in connection with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the total
rent received under the lease, then the portion of rent attributable to such
personal property will not qualify as “rents from real property.”

•     For rents to qualify as rents from real
property, we generally must not furnish or render services to tenants, other
than through a taxable REIT subsidiary or an “independent contractor” from whom
we derive no income, except that we may directly provide services that are
“usually or customarily rendered” in the geographic area in which the property
is located in connection with the rental of real property for occupancy only,
or are not otherwise considered “rendered to the occupant for his convenience.”

•     For taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008,
the REIT may lease

“

qualified
health care

properties”

on an
arm’s-length basis to a taxable REIT subsidiary if the property is operated on
behalf of such subsidiary by a person who

qualifies as an
“independent contractor” and who is, or is related to a person who is, actively
engaged in the trade or business of operating health care facilities for any
person unrelated to us or our taxable REIT subsidiary, an “

eligible independent contractor

.

”

Generally, the rent that the REIT
receives from the taxable REIT subsidiary will be treated as “rents from real
property.”

A “qualified health care property” includes any real
property and any personal property that is, or is necessary or incidental to
the use of, a hospital, nursing facility, assisted living facility, congregate
care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or other licensed facility that
extends medical or nursing or ancillary services to patients and is operated by
a provider of such services that is eligible for participation in the Medicare
program with respect to such facility.

A REIT is permitted to render a de minimis amount of
impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts received with respect
to that property as rent from real property. The amount received or accrued by
the REIT during the taxable year for the impermissible services with respect to
a property may not exceed 1% of all amounts received or accrued by the REIT
directly or indirectly from the property. The amount received for any service
or management operation for this purpose shall be deemed to be not less than
150% of the direct cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or
providing the management or operation. Furthermore, impermissible services may
be furnished to tenants by a taxable REIT subsidiary subject to certain
conditions, and we may still treat rents received with respect to the property
as rent from real property.

The term “interest” generally does not
include any amount if the determination of the amount depends in whole or in
part on the income or profits of any person, although an amount generally will
not be excluded from the term “interest” solely by reason of being based on a
fixed percentage of receipts or sales.

If we fail to satisfy one or both of
the 75% or 95% gross income tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless
qualify as a REIT for such year if we are eligible for relief.  These relief
provisions generally will be available if (1) following our identification
of the failure, we file a schedule for such taxable year describing each item
of our gross income, and (2) the failure to meet such tests was due to
reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect.

It is not now possible to determine
the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief
provisions. If these relief provisions apply, a 100% tax is imposed on an
amount equal to (a) the gross income attributable to (1) 75% of our
gross income over the amount of qualifying gross income for purposes of the 75%
income test and (2) 95% of our gross income over the amount of qualifying
gross income for purposes of the 95% income test, multiplied by (b) a
fraction intended to reflect our profitability.

The Secretary of the Treasury is given
broad authority to determine whether particular items of income or gain qualify
or not under the 75% and 95% gross income tests, or are to be excluded from the
measure of gross income for such purposes.

Asset Tests.

Within 30 days after
the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also satisfy several
tests relating to the nature and diversification of our assets determined in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. At least 75% of the
value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets, cash, cash
items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of our operation),
government securities and qualified temporary investments. Although the
remaining 25% of our assets generally may be invested without restriction, we
are prohibited from owning securities representing more than 10% of either the
vote (the


“10% vote test”) or value (the “10% value
test”) of the outstanding securities of any issuer other than a qualified REIT
subsidiary, another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Further, no more than
25% of the total assets may be represented by securities of one or more taxable
REIT subsidiaries (the “25% asset test”) and no more than 5% of the value of
our total assets may be represented by securities of any non-governmental
issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary (the “5% asset test”), another
REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote test, the 10% value
test and the 25% and 5% asset tests must be satisfied at the end of each
quarter. There are special rules which provide relief if the value related
tests are not satisfied due to changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.

Certain items are excluded from the
10% value test, including: (1) straight debt securities (as defined in
Internal Revenue Code Section 1361(c)(5)) of an issuer (including straight debt
that provides certain contingent payments); (2) any loan to an individual
or an estate; (3) any rental agreement described in Section 467 of
the Internal Revenue Code, other than with a “related person”; (4) any
obligation to pay rents from real property; (5) certain securities issued
by a state or any subdivision thereof, the District of Columbia, a foreign
government, or any political subdivision thereof, or the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico; (6) any security issued by a REIT; and (7) any other
arrangement that, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, is excepted
from the definition of security (“excluded securities”). Special rules apply to
straight debt securities issued by corporations and entities taxable as
partnerships for federal income tax purposes. If a REIT, or its taxable REIT
subsidiary, holds (1) straight debt securities of a corporate or
partnership issuer and (2) securities of such issuer that are not excluded
securities and have an aggregate value greater than 1% of such issuer’s
outstanding securities, the straight debt securities will be included in the
10% value test.

A REIT’s interest as a partner in a
partnership is not treated as a security for purposes of applying the 10% value
test to securities issued by the partnership. Further, any debt instrument
issued by a partnership will not be a security for purposes of applying the 10%
value test (1) to the extent of the REIT’s interest as a partner in the
partnership and (2) if at least 75% of the partnership’s gross income
(excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) would qualify for the 75%
gross income test.  For purposes of the 10% value test, a REIT’s interest in a
partnership’s assets is determined by the REIT’s proportionate interest in any
securities issued by the partnership (other than the excluded securities
described in the preceding paragraph).

For taxable years beginning after
July 30, 2008, if the REIT or its QBU uses a foreign currency as its
functional currency, the term “cash” includes such foreign currency, but only
to the extent such foreign currency is (i) held for use in the normal
course of the activities of the REIT or QBU which give rise to items of income
or gain that are included in the 95% and 75% gross income tests or are directly
related to acquiring or holding assets qualifying under the 75% asset test, and
(ii) not held in connection with dealing or engaging in substantial and
regular trading in securities.

With respect to corrections of
failures as to violations of the 10% vote test, the 10% value test or the 5% asset
test, a REIT may avoid disqualification as a REIT by disposing of sufficient
assets to cure a violation that does not exceed the lesser of 1% of the REIT’s
assets at the end of the relevant quarter or $10,000,000, provided that the
disposition occurs within six months following the last day of the quarter in
which the REIT first identified the assets. For violations of any of the REIT
asset tests due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect that exceed the
thresholds described in the preceding sentence, a REIT can avoid
disqualification as a REIT after the close of a taxable quarter by taking
certain steps, including disposition of sufficient assets within the six month
period described above to meet the applicable asset test, paying a tax equal to
the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net
income generated by the non-qualifying assets during the period of time that
the assets were held as non-qualifying assets and filing a schedule with the
Internal Revenue Service that describes the non-qualifying assets.

Investments in Taxable REIT
Subsidiaries.

REITs may own more than 10% of the voting power and value of securities in
taxable REIT subsidiaries. We and any taxable corporate entity in which we own
an interest are allowed to jointly elect to treat such entity as a “taxable
REIT subsidiary.”

Certain of our subsidiaries have
elected to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary. Taxable REIT subsidiaries
are subject to full corporate level federal taxation on their earnings but are
permitted to engage in certain types of activities that cannot be performed
directly by REITs without jeopardizing their REIT status. Our taxable REIT
subsidiaries will attempt to minimize the amount of these taxes, but there can
be no assurance whether or the extent to which measures taken to minimize taxes
will be successful. To the extent our taxable REIT subsidiaries are required to
pay federal, state or local taxes, the cash available for distribution as
dividends to us from our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be reduced.

The amount of interest on
related-party debt that a taxable REIT subsidiary may deduct is limited.
Further, a 100% tax applies to any interest payments by a taxable REIT
subsidiary to its affiliated REIT to the extent the interest rate is not
commercially reasonable. A taxable REIT subsidiary is permitted to deduct
interest payments to unrelated parties without any of these restrictions.

The Internal Revenue Service may
reallocate costs between a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiary where there is
a lack of arm’s-length dealing between the parties. Any deductible expenses
allocated away from a taxable REIT subsidiary would increase its tax liability.
Further, any amount by which a REIT understates its deductions and overstates
those of its taxable REIT subsidiary may, subject to certain exceptions, be
subject to a 100% tax. Additional taxable REIT subsidiary elections may be made
in the future for additional entities in which we obtain an interest.


Annual
Distribution Requirements.

In order to avoid being taxed as a regular corporation, we are
required to make distributions (other than capital gain distributions) to our
stockholders which qualify for the dividends paid deduction in an amount at
least equal to (1) the sum of (i) 90% of our “REIT taxable income”
(computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital
gain) and (ii) 90% of the after-tax net income, if any, from foreclosure
property, minus (2) a portion of certain items of non-cash income. These
distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the
following taxable year if declared before we timely file our tax return for
that year and if paid on or before the first regular distribution payment after
such declaration. The amount distributed must not be preferential. This means
that every stockholder of the class of stock to which a distribution is made
must be treated the same as every other stockholder of that class, and no class
of stock may be treated otherwise than in accordance with its dividend rights
as a class. To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital gain
or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our “REIT taxable income,”
as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular
corporate tax rates.  As discussed above, we may be subject to an excise tax if
we fail to meet certain other distribution requirements. We believe we have
satisfied the annual distribution requirements for the year of our initial REIT
election and each year thereafter through the year ended December 31, 2014.
Although we intend to make timely distributions sufficient to satisfy these annual
distribution requirements for subsequent years, economic, market, legal, tax or
other factors could limit our ability to meet those requirements. See “Item 1A
— Risk Factors.”

It is also possible that, from time to
time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90%
distribution requirement, or to distribute such greater amount as may be
necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to, among other things,
(1) timing differences between (i) the actual receipt of income and
actual payment of deductible expenses and (ii) the inclusion of income and
deduction of expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or (2) the
payment of severance benefits that may not be deductible to us. In the event
that timing differences occur, we may find it necessary to arrange for
borrowings or, if possible, pay dividends in the form of taxable stock
dividends in order to meet the distribution requirement.

Under certain circumstances, in the
event of a deficiency determined by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be
able to rectify a resulting failure to meet the distribution requirement for a
year by paying “deficiency dividends” to stockholders in a later year, which
may be included in our deduction for distributions paid for the earlier year.
Thus, we may be able to avoid being taxed on amounts distributed as deficiency
dividends; however, we will be required to pay applicable penalties and
interest based upon the amount of any deduction taken for deficiency dividend
distributions.

Failure to Qualify as a REIT

If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any
taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax, including any
applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate
rates. Distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as
a REIT will not be deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions
be required to be made in any year. All distributions to stockholders will be
taxable as ordinary income to the extent of current and accumulated earnings
and profits allocable to these distributions and, subject to certain limitations,
will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for corporate
stockholders. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we
also will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years
following the year during which qualification was lost. It is not possible to
state whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to statutory relief.
Failure to qualify for even one year could result in our need to incur
indebtedness or liquidate investments in order to pay potentially significant
resulting tax liabilities.

In addition to the relief described above under
“— Income Tests” and “— Asset Tests,” relief is available in the
event that we violate a provision of the Internal Revenue Code that would
result in our failure to qualify as a REIT if: (1) the violation is due to
reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect; (2) we pay a penalty of
$50,000 for each failure to satisfy the provision; and (3) the violation
does not include a violation described under “— Income Tests” or
“— Asset Tests” above. It is not now possible to determine the
circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of these relief
provisions.

Federal Income Taxation of Holders of Our Stock

Treatment of Taxable U.S. Stockholders.

The following summary applies to you only
if you are a “U.S. stockholder.” A “U.S. stockholder” is a holder of
shares of stock who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is:

•     a citizen or resident of the United States;

•     a corporation, partnership or other entity
classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political
subdivision of the United States, including any state;

•     an estate, the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source; or

•     a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is
able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or
more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has
the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial


decisions.

So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT,
distributions on shares of our stock made out of the current or accumulated
earnings and profits allocable to these distributions (and not designated as
capital gain dividends) will be includable as ordinary income for federal
income tax purposes. None of these distributions will be eligible for the
dividends received deduction for U.S. corporate stockholders.

Generally, the current maximum marginal rate of tax
payable by individuals on dividends received from corporations that are subject
to a corporate level of tax is 20%. Except in limited circumstances, this tax
rate will not apply to dividends paid to you by us on our shares, because
generally we are not subject to federal income tax on the portion of our REIT
taxable income or capital gains distributed to our stockholders. The reduced
maximum federal income tax rate will apply to that portion, if any, of dividends
received by you with respect to our shares that are attributable to:
(1) dividends received by us from non-REIT corporations or other taxable
REIT subsidiaries; (2) income from the prior year with respect to which we
were required to pay federal corporate income tax during the prior year (if,
for example, we did not distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income for the
prior year); or (3) the amount of any earnings and profits that were
distributed by us and accumulated in a non-REIT year.

Distributions that are designated as capital gain
dividends will be taxed as long-term capital gains (to the extent they do not
exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year), without regard to the
period for which you held our stock. However, if you are a corporation, you may
be required to treat a portion of some capital gain dividends as ordinary
income.

If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net
long-term capital gain, you would include in income, as long-term capital gain,
your proportionate share of this net long-term capital gain. You would also
receive a refundable tax credit for your proportionate share of the tax paid by
us on such retained capital gains, and you would have an increase in the basis
of your shares of our stock in an amount equal to your includable capital gains
less your share of the tax deemed paid.

You may not include in your federal income tax return
any of our net operating losses or capital losses. Federal income tax rules may
also require that certain minimum tax adjustments and preferences be
apportioned to you. In addition, any distribution declared by us in October,
November or December of any year on a specified date in any such month shall be
treated as both paid by us and received by you on December 31 of that year, provided
that the distribution is actually paid by us no later than January 31 of the
following year.

We will be treated as having sufficient earnings and
profits to treat as a dividend any distribution up to the amount required to be
distributed in order to avoid imposition of the 4% excise tax discussed under
“— General” and “— Qualification as a REIT — Annual Distribution
Requirements” above. As a result, you may be required to treat as taxable
dividends certain distributions that would otherwise result in a tax-free
return of capital. Moreover, any “deficiency dividend” will be treated as a
dividend (an ordinary dividend or a capital gain dividend, as the case may be),
regardless of our earnings and profits. Any other distributions in excess of
current or accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to you to the
extent these distributions do not exceed the adjusted tax basis of your shares
of our stock. You will be required to reduce the tax basis of your shares of
our stock by the amount of these distributions until the basis has been reduced
to zero, after which these distributions will be taxable as capital gain, if
the shares of our stock are held as capital assets. The tax basis as so reduced
will be used in computing the capital gain or loss, if any, realized upon sale
of the shares of our stock. Any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our
stock which were held for six months or less (after application of certain
holding period rules) will generally be treated as a long-term capital loss to
the extent you previously received capital gain distributions with respect to
these shares of our stock.

Upon the sale or exchange of any shares of our stock
to or with a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all shares of our
stock (whether actually or constructively owned) with us, you will generally
recognize capital gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount
realized on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in these shares of
our stock. This gain will be capital gain if you held these shares of our stock
as a capital asset.

If we redeem any of your shares in us, the treatment
can only be determined on the basis of particular facts at the time of
redemption. In general, you will recognize gain or loss (as opposed to dividend
income) equal to the difference between the amount received by you in the
redemption and your adjusted tax basis in your shares redeemed if such
redemption: (1) results in a “complete termination” of your interest in
all classes of our equity securities; (2) is a “substantially
disproportionate redemption”; or (3) is “not essentially equivalent to a
dividend” with respect to you. In applying these tests, you must take into
account your ownership of all classes of our equity securities (e.g., common
stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants). You also must take
into account any equity securities that are considered to be constructively
owned by you.

If, as a result of a redemption by us of your shares,
you no longer own (either actually or constructively) any of our equity
securities or only own (actually and constructively) an insubstantial
percentage of our equity securities, then it is probable that the redemption of
your shares would be considered “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” and,
thus, would result in gain or loss to you. However,


whether
a distribution is “not essentially equivalent to a dividend” depends on all of
the facts and circumstances, and if you rely on any of these tests at the time
of redemption, you should consult your tax advisor to determine their
application to the particular situation.

Generally, if the redemption does not meet the tests
described above, then the proceeds received by you from the redemption of your
shares will be treated as a distribution taxable as a dividend to the extent of
the allocable portion of current or accumulated earnings and profits. If the
redemption is taxed as a dividend, your adjusted tax basis in the redeemed
shares will be transferred to any other shareholdings in us that you own. If
you own no other shareholdings in us, under certain circumstances, such basis
may be transferred to a related person, or it may be lost entirely.

Gain from the sale or exchange of our
shares held for more than one year is generally taxed at a maximum long-term
capital gain rate of 20% in the case of stockholders who are individuals and
35% in the case of stockholders that are corporations.  Pursuant to Internal
Revenue Service guidance, we may classify portions of our capital gain
dividends as gains eligible for the long-term capital gains rate or as gain
taxable to individual stockholders at a maximum rate of 25%.  Capital losses
recognized by a stockholder upon the disposition of our shares held for more
than one year at the time of disposition will be considered long-term capital
losses, and are generally available only to offset capital gain income of the
stockholder but not ordinary income (except in the case of individuals, who may
offset up to $3,000 of ordinary income each year).

An additional tax
of 3.8% generally will be imposed on the “net investment income” of U.S.
stockholders who meet certain requirements and are individuals, estates or
certain trusts.  Among
other items, “net investment income” generally includes gross income from
dividends and net gain attributable to the disposition of certain property,
such as shares of our common stock or warrants. In the case of individuals,
this tax will only apply to the extent such individual’s modified adjusted
gross income exceeds $200,000 ($250,000 for married couples filing a joint
return and surviving spouses, and $125,000 for married individuals filing a
separate return). U.S. stockholders should consult their tax advisors regarding
the possible applicability of this additional tax in their particular
circumstances.

Treatment of Tax-Exempt U.S. Stockholders.

Tax-exempt
entities, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts and
individual retirement accounts (“Exempt Organizations”), generally are exempt
from federal income taxation. However, they are subject to taxation on their
unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”). The Internal Revenue Service has
issued a published revenue ruling that dividend distributions from a REIT to an
exempt employee pension trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares
of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of the
exempt employee pension trust. Based on this ruling, amounts distributed by us
to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI. However, if an
Exempt Organization finances its acquisition of the shares of our stock with
debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the
“debt financed property” rules. Likewise, a portion of the Exempt
Organization’s income from us would constitute UBTI if we held a residual
interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit.

In addition, in certain circumstances,
a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our stock is required to treat a
percentage of our dividends as UBTI. This rule applies to a pension trust
holding more than 10% of our stock only if: (1) the percentage of our
income that is UBTI (determined as if we were a pension trust) is at least 5%;
(2) we qualify as a REIT by reason of the modification of the Five or
Fewer Requirement that allows beneficiaries of the pension trust to be treated
as holding shares in proportion to their actuarial interests in the pension
trust; and (3) either (i) one pension trust owns more than 25% of the
value of our stock, or (ii) a group of pension trusts individually holding
more than 10% of the value of our stock collectively own more than 50% of the
value of our stock.

Backup Withholding and Information
Reporting.

Under
certain circumstances, you may be subject to backup withholding at applicable
rates on payments made with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange
of, shares of our stock. Backup withholding will apply only if you:
(1) fail to provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you
are an individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish
an incorrect taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the
Internal Revenue Service that you have failed to properly report payments of
interest or dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury,
that you have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the
Internal Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup
withholding.

Backup withholding will not apply with
respect to payments made to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and
tax-exempt organizations. You should consult with a tax advisor regarding
qualification for exemption from backup withholding, and the procedure for
obtaining an exemption. Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather,
the amount of any backup withholding with respect to a payment to a stockholder
will be allowed as a credit against such stockholder’s United States federal income tax liability and may entitle such stockholder to a refund, provided
that the required information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service. In
addition, withholding a portion of capital gain distributions made to
stockholders may be required for stockholders who fail to certify their
non-foreign status.

Taxation of Foreign Stockholders.

The following summary
applies to you only if you are a foreign person. The federal taxation of
foreign persons is a highly complex matter that may be affected by many
considerations.


Except as
discussed below, distributions to you of cash generated by our real estate
operations in the form of ordinary dividends, but not by the sale or exchange
of our capital assets, generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax
at a rate of 30%, unless an applicable tax treaty reduces that tax and you file
with us the required form evidencing the lower rate.

In general, you will be subject to
United States federal income tax on a graduated rate basis rather than
withholding with respect to your investment in our stock if such investment is
“effectively connected” with your conduct of a trade or business in the United
States. A corporate foreign stockholder that receives income that is, or is
treated as, effectively connected with a United States trade or business may
also be subject to the branch profits tax, which is payable in addition to
regular United States corporate income tax. The following discussion will apply
to foreign stockholders whose investment in us is not so effectively connected.
We expect to withhold United States income tax, as described below, on the
gross amount of any distributions paid to you unless (1) you file an
Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI with us claiming that the
distribution is “effectively connected” or (2) certain other exceptions
apply.

Distributions by us that are
attributable to gain from the sale or exchange of a United States real property
interest will be taxed to you under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax
Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if these distributions were gains “effectively
connected” with a United States trade or business. Accordingly, you will be
taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. stockholder on these amounts, subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a
special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals.
Distributions subject to FIRPTA may also be subject to a branch profits tax in
the hands of a corporate foreign stockholder that is not entitled to treaty
exemption.

We will be required to withhold from distributions
subject to FIRPTA, and remit to the Internal Revenue Service, 35% of designated
capital gain dividends, or, if greater, 35% of the amount of any distributions
that could be designated as capital gain dividends. In addition, if we
designate prior distributions as capital gain dividends, subsequent
distributions, up to the amount of the prior distributions not withheld
against, will be treated as capital gain dividends for purposes of withholding.

Any capital gain dividend with respect to any class of
stock that is “regularly traded” on an established securities market will be
treated as an ordinary dividend if the foreign stockholder did not own more
than 5% of such class of stock at any time during the taxable year. Foreign
stockholders generally will not be required to report distributions received
from us on U.S. federal income tax returns and all distributions treated
as dividends for U.S. federal income tax purposes (including any such
capital gain dividends) will be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax
(unless reduced under an applicable income tax treaty) as discussed above. In
addition, the branch profits tax will not apply to such distributions.

Unless our shares constitute a “United States real property interest” within the meaning of FIRPTA or are effectively connected with
a U.S. trade or business, a sale of our shares by you generally will not
be subject to United States taxation. Our shares will not constitute a United States real property interest if we qualify as a “domestically controlled REIT.” We
believe that we, and expect to continue to, qualify as a domestically
controlled REIT. A domestically controlled REIT is a REIT in which at all times
during a specified testing period less than 50% in value of its shares is held
directly or indirectly by foreign stockholders. However, if you are a
nonresident alien individual who is present in the United States for
183 days or more during the taxable year and certain other conditions
apply, you will be subject to a 30% tax on such capital gains. In any event, a
purchaser of our shares from you will not be required under FIRPTA to withhold
on the purchase price if the purchased shares are “regularly traded” on an
established securities market or if we are a domestically controlled REIT. Otherwise,
under FIRPTA, the purchaser may be required to withhold 10% of the purchase
price and remit such amount to the Internal Revenue Service.

Backup withholding tax and information reporting will
generally not apply to distributions paid to you outside the United States that
are treated as: (1) dividends to which the 30% or lower treaty rate
withholding tax discussed above applies; (2) capital gains dividends; or
(3) distributions attributable to gain from the sale or exchange by us of
U.S. real property interests. Payment of the proceeds of a sale of stock
within the United States or conducted through certain U.S. related
financial intermediaries is subject to both backup withholding and information
reporting unless the beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that
he or she is not a U.S. person (and the payor does not have actual
knowledge that the beneficial owner is a U.S. person) or otherwise
established an exemption. You may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under
the backup withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund with
the Internal Revenue Service.

Withholding tax at a rate of 30% will be imposed on certain payments to you or
certain foreign financial institutions (including investment funds) and other non-US
persons receiving payments on your behalf, including distributions in respect
of shares of our stock and gross proceeds from the sale of shares of our stock,
if you or such institutions fail to comply with certain due diligence,
disclosure and reporting rules, as set forth in recently issued Treasury
regulations. Accordingly, the entity through which shares of our stock are held
will affect the determination of whether such withholding is required.
Withholding currently applies to payments of dividends made after June 30, 2014,
and will apply to payments of gross proceeds from a sale of shares of our stock
made after December 31, 2016.  Stockholders that are otherwise eligible for an
exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. withholding taxes with respect to such
dividends and proceeds will be required to seek a refund from the Internal
Revenue Service to obtain the benefit of such exemption or reduction. 
Additional requirements and conditions may be imposed pursuant to an
intergovernmental agreement, if and when entered into, between the United
States and such institution’s home jurisdiction. We will not pay any additional
amounts to


any stockholders in respect of any amounts
withheld. You are encouraged to consult with your tax advisor regarding U.S.
withholding taxes and the application of the recently issued Treasury
regulations in light of your particular circumstances.

U.S. Federal Income
Taxation of Holders of Depositary Shares

Owners of our depositary shares will be treated as if
you were owners of the series of preferred stock represented by the depositary
shares. Thus, you will be required to take into account the income and
deductions to which you would be entitled if you were a holder of the
underlying series of preferred stock.

Conversion or Exchange of Shares for Preferred Stock.

No gain or loss will be recognized upon
the withdrawal of preferred stock in exchange for depositary shares and the tax
basis of each share of preferred stock will, upon exchange, be the same as the
aggregate tax basis of the depositary shares exchanged. If you held your
depositary shares as a capital asset at the time of the exchange for shares of
preferred stock, the holding period for your shares of preferred stock will
include the period during which you owned the depositary shares.

U.S. Federal Income
and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Debt Securities

The following is a general summary of the United
States federal income tax consequences and, in the case that you are a holder
that is a non-U.S. holder, as defined below, the United States federal
estate tax consequences, of purchasing, owning and disposing of debt securities
periodically offered under one or more indentures (the “notes”). This summary
assumes that you hold the notes as capital assets. This summary applies to you
only if you are the initial holder of the notes and you acquire the notes for a
price equal to the issue price of the notes. The issue price of the notes is
the first price at which a substantial amount of the notes is sold other than to
bond houses, brokers or similar persons or organizations acting in the capacity
of underwriters, placement agents or wholesalers. In addition, this summary
does not consider any foreign, state, local or other tax laws that may be
applicable to us or a purchaser of the notes.

U.S. Holders

The following summary applies to you only if you are a
  U.S. holder, as defined below.

Definition of a U.S. Holder.

A “U.S. holder” is a beneficial owner
of a note or notes that is for United States federal income tax purposes:

•     a citizen or resident of the United States;

•     a corporation, partnership or other entity
classified as a corporation or partnership for these purposes, created or
organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political subdivision
of the United States, including any state;

•     an estate, the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source; or

•     a trust, if, in general, a U.S. court is
able to exercise primary supervision over the trust’s administration and one or
more U.S. persons, within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code, has
the authority to control all of the trust’s substantial decisions.

Payments of Interest.

Stated interest on the notes generally
will be taxed as ordinary interest income from domestic sources at the time it
is paid or accrues in accordance with your method of accounting for tax
purposes.

Sale,
Exchange or Other Disposition of Notes.

The
adjusted tax basis in your note acquired at a premium will generally be your
cost. You generally will recognize taxable gain or loss when you sell or
otherwise dispose of your notes equal to the difference, if any, between:

•     the amount realized on the sale or other
disposition, less any amount attributable to any accrued interest, which will
be taxable in the manner described under “— Payments of Interest”
above; and

•     your adjusted tax basis in the notes.

Your gain or loss generally will be capital gain or
loss. This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if at
the time of the sale or other disposition you have held the notes for more than
one year. Subject to limited exceptions, your capital losses cannot be used to
offset your ordinary income (except in the case of individuals, who may offset
up to $3,000 of ordinary income each year).


Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.

In general, “backup withholding” may apply
to any payments made to you of principal and interest on your note, and to
payment of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of your note before
maturity, if you are a non-corporate U.S. holder and: (1) fail to
provide a correct taxpayer identification number, which if you are an
individual, is ordinarily your social security number; (2) furnish an incorrect
taxpayer identification number; (3) are notified by the Internal Revenue
Service that you have failed to properly report payments of interest or
dividends; or (4) fail to certify, under penalties of perjury, that you
have furnished a correct taxpayer identification number and that the Internal
Revenue Service has not notified you that you are subject to backup
withholding.

The amount of any reportable payments, including
interest, made to you (unless you are an exempt recipient) and the amount of
tax withheld, if any, with respect to such payments will be reported to you and
to the Internal Revenue Service for each calendar year. You should consult your
tax advisor regarding your qualification for an exemption from backup
withholding and the procedures for obtaining such an exemption, if applicable.
The backup withholding tax is not an additional tax and will be credited
against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided that correct
information is provided to the Internal Revenue Service.

Non-U.S. Holders

The following summary applies to you if you are a
beneficial owner of a note and are not a U.S. holder, as defined above (a
“non-U.S. holder”).

Special rules may apply to certain
non-U.S. holders such as “controlled foreign corporations,” “passive
foreign investment companies” and “foreign personal holding companies.” Such
entities are encouraged to consult their tax advisors to determine the United States federal, state, local and other tax consequences that may be relevant to
them.

U.S. Federal
Withholding Tax.

Subject
to the discussion below, U.S. federal withholding tax will not apply to
payments by us or our paying agent, in its capacity as such, of principal and
interest on your notes under the “portfolio interest” exception of the Internal
Revenue Code, provided that:

•     you do not, directly or indirectly, actually or
constructively, own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all
classes of our stock entitled to vote;

•     you are not (1) a controlled foreign
corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is related, directly
or indirectly, to us through sufficient stock ownership, as provided in the
Internal Revenue Code, or (2) a bank receiving interest described in
Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code;

•     such interest is not effectively connected with
your conduct of a U.S. trade or business; and

•     you provide a signed written statement, under
penalties of perjury, which can reliably be related to you, certifying that you
are not a U.S. person within the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code and
providing your name and address to:

•      us or our paying agent; or

•

a securities clearing
organization, bank or other financial institution that holds customers’
securities in the ordinary course of its trade or business and holds your notes
on your behalf and that certifies to us or our paying agent under penalties of
perjury that it, or the bank or financial institution between it and you, has
received from you your signed, written statement and provides us or our paying
agent with a copy of such statement.

Treasury regulations provide that:

•     if you are a foreign partnership, the
certification requirement will generally apply to your partners, and you will
be required to provide certain information;

•     if you are a foreign trust, the certification
requirement will generally be applied to you or your beneficial owners
depending on whether you are a “foreign complex trust,” “foreign simple trust,”
or “foreign grantor trust” as defined in the Treasury regulations; and

•     look-through rules will apply for tiered
partnerships, foreign simple trusts and foreign grantor trusts.

If you are a foreign partnership or a foreign trust,
you should consult your own tax advisor regarding your status under these
Treasury regulations and the certification requirements applicable to you.


If you cannot satisfy the portfolio interest
requirements described above, payments of interest will be subject to the 30%
United States withholding tax, unless you provide us with a properly executed
(1) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming an exemption from
or reduction in withholding under the benefit of an applicable treaty or
(2) Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI stating that interest paid
on the note is not subject to withholding tax because it is effectively
connected with your conduct of a trade or business in the United States.
Alternative documentation may be applicable in certain circumstances.

If you are engaged in a trade or business in the
United States and interest on a note is effectively connected with the conduct
of that trade or business, you will be required to pay United States federal
income tax on that interest on a net income basis (although you will be exempt
from the 30% withholding tax provided the certification requirement described
above is met) in the same manner as if you were a U.S. person, except as
otherwise provided by an applicable tax treaty. If you are a foreign
corporation, you may be required to pay a branch profits tax on the earnings
and profits that are effectively connected to the conduct of your trade or
business in the United States.

Withholding tax at a rate of 30% will be imposed on payments of interest
(including original issue discount) and gross proceeds of sale in respect of
debt instruments to you or certain foreign financial institutions (including
investment funds) and other non-US persons receiving payments on your behalf,
if you or such institutions fail to comply with certain due diligence,
disclosure and reporting rules, as set forth in recently issued Treasury
regulations. However, the Treasury regulations generally exempt from such
withholding requirement obligations, such as debt instruments, issued before July
1, 2014, provided that any material modification of such an obligation made
after such date will result in such obligation being considered newly issued as
of the effective date of such modification. These withholding rules are
generally effective with respect to payments of interest made after June 30,
2014, and with respect to proceeds of sales received after December 31, 2016.
We will not pay any additional amounts to any holders or our debt instruments
in respect of any amounts withheld. You are encouraged to consult with your tax
advisor regarding U.S. withholding taxes and the application of the recently
issued Treasury regulations in light of your particular circumstances.

Sale, Exchange or other Disposition of Notes.

You generally will not have to pay U.S. federal income tax on any gain or income realized from the sale, redemption,
retirement at maturity or other disposition of your notes, unless:

•     in the case of gain, you are an individual who
is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable
year of the sale or other disposition of your notes, and specific other
conditions are met;

•     you are subject to tax provisions applicable to
certain United States expatriates; or

•     the gain is effectively connected with your
conduct of a U.S. trade or business.

If you are engaged in a trade or business in the United States, and gain with respect to your notes is effectively connected with the conduct of that
trade or business, you generally will be subject to U.S. income tax on a
net basis on the gain. In addition, if you are a foreign corporation, you may
be subject to a branch profits tax on your effectively connected earnings and
profits for the taxable year, as adjusted for certain items.

U.S. Federal
Estate Tax.

If you are an
individual and are not a U.S. citizen or a resident of the United States,
as specially defined for U.S. federal estate tax purposes, at the time of
your death, your notes will generally not be subject to the U.S. federal
estate tax, unless, at the time of your death (1) you owned actually or
constructively 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all our
classes of stock entitled to vote, or (2) interest on the notes is
effectively connected with your conduct of a U.S. trade or business.

Backup Withholding and Information Reporting.

Backup withholding will not apply to
payments of principal or interest made by us or our paying agent, in its
capacity as such, to you if you have provided the required certification that
you are a non-U.S. holder as described in “— U.S. Federal
Withholding Tax” above, and provided that neither we nor our paying agent have
actual knowledge that you are a U.S. holder, as described in
“— U.S. Holders” above. We or our paying agent may, however, report
payments of interest on the notes.

The gross proceeds from the disposition of your notes
may be subject to information reporting and backup withholding tax. If you sell
your notes outside the United States through a non-U.S. office of a
non-U.S. broker and the sales proceeds are paid to you outside the United States, then the U.S. backup withholding and information reporting requirements
generally will not apply to that payment. However, U.S. information
reporting, but not backup withholding, will apply to a payment of sales
proceeds, even if that payment is made outside the United States, if you sell
your notes through a non-U.S. office of a broker that:

•     is a U.S. person, as defined in the
Internal Revenue Code;

•     derives 50% or more of its gross income in
specific periods from the conduct of a trade or business in the United States;


•     is a “controlled foreign corporation” for U.S. federal income tax purposes; or

•     is a foreign partnership, if at any time during
its tax year, one or more of its partners are U.S. persons who in the aggregate
hold more than 50% of the income or capital interests in the partnership, or
the foreign partnership is engaged in a U.S. trade or business, unless the
broker has documentary evidence in its files that you are a
non-U.S. person and certain other conditions are met or you otherwise
establish an exemption. If you receive payments of the proceeds of a sale of
your notes to or through a U.S. office of a broker, the payment is subject
to both U.S. backup withholding and information reporting unless you
provide a Form W-8BEN certifying that you are a non-U.S. person or
you otherwise establish an exemption.

You should consult your own tax advisor regarding
application of backup withholding in your particular circumstance and the
availability of and procedure for obtaining an exemption from backup
withholding. Any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules from a
payment to you will be allowed as a refund or credit against your U.S. federal income tax liability, provided the required information is furnished to
the Internal Revenue Service.

U.S. Federal Income
and Estate Taxation of Holders of Our Warrants

Exercise of Warrants.

You will not generally recognize gain or
loss upon the exercise of a warrant. Your basis in the debt securities, preferred
stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may be, received upon the
exercise of the warrant will be equal to the sum of your adjusted tax basis in
the warrant and the exercise price paid. Your holding period in the debt
securities, preferred stock, depositary shares or common stock, as the case may
be, received upon the exercise of the warrant will not include the period
during which the warrant was held by you.

Expiration of Warrants.

Upon the expiration of a warrant, you will
recognize a capital loss in an amount equal to your adjusted tax basis in the
warrant.

Sale or
Exchange of Warrants.

Upon
the sale or exchange of a warrant to a person other than us, you will recognize
gain or loss in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized
on the sale or exchange and your adjusted tax basis in the warrant. Such gain
or loss will be capital gain or loss and will be long-term capital gain or loss
if the warrant was held for more than one year. Upon the sale of the warrant to
us, the Internal Revenue Service may argue that you should recognize ordinary
income on the sale. You are advised to consult your own tax advisors as to the
consequences of a sale of a warrant to us.

Potential Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax
Consequences

Current and prospective securities holders should
recognize that the present federal income tax treatment of an investment in us
may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time
and that any such action may affect investments and commitments previously
made. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under
review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal
Revenue Service and the Treasury Department, resulting in revisions of regulations
and revised interpretations of established concepts as well as statutory
changes. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations of these laws could
adversely affect the tax consequences of an investment in us.

State, Local and Foreign Taxes

We, and holders of our debt and equity securities, may
be subject to state, local or foreign taxation in various jurisdictions,
including those in which we or they transact business, own property or reside.
It should be noted that we own properties located in a number of state, local
and foreign jurisdictions, and may be required to file tax returns in some or
all of those jurisdictions. The state, local or foreign tax treatment of us and
holders of our debt and equity securities may not conform to the U.S. federal
income tax consequences discussed above. Consequently, you are urged to consult
your advisor regarding the application and effect of state, local and foreign
tax laws with respect to any investment in our securities.

Internet Access to Our SEC Filings

Our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as well as our proxy
statements and other materials that are filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission are made available, free of charge, on the
Internet at www.hcreit.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements


This
Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference contain
statements that constitute “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined
in the federal securities laws. When we use words such as “may,” “will,”
“intend,” “should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “estimate” or
similar expressions that do not relate solely to historical matters, we are
making forward-looking statements. In particular, these forward-looking
statements include, but are not limited to, those relating to our opportunities
to acquire, develop or sell properties; our ability to close our anticipated
acquisitions, investments or dispositions on currently anticipated terms, or
within currently anticipated timeframes; the expected performance of our
operators/tenants and properties; our expected occupancy rates; our ability to
declare and to make distributions to stockholders; our investment and financing
opportunities and plans; our continued qualification as a real estate
investment trust (“REIT”); and our ability to access capital markets or other
sources of funds.

Forward-looking statements are
not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that may
cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations discussed
in the forward-looking statements. This may be a result of various factors,
including, but not limited to:

•

the status of the economy;

•

the status of capital markets, including availability and cost of
capital;

•

issues facing the health care industry, including compliance with, and
changes to, regulations and payment policies, responding to government
investigations and punitive settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost-effectively
obtaining and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance;

•

changes in financing terms;

•

competition within the health care, seniors housing and life science
industries;

•

negative developments in the operating results or financial condition of
operators/tenants, including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and
repay loans;

•

our ability to transition or sell properties with profitable results;

•

the failure to make new investments or acquisitions as and when
anticipated;

•

natural disasters and other acts of God affecting our properties;

•

our ability to re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;

•

our ability to timely reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets
sold;

•

operator/tenant or joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies;

•

the cooperation of joint venture partners;

•

government regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement
rates and operational requirements;

•

liability or contract claims by or against operators/tenants;

•

unanticipated difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future
investments or acquisitions;

•

environmental laws affecting our properties;

•

changes in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;

•

the movement of U.S. and foreign currency exchange rates;

•

our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT;

•

key management personnel recruitment and retention; and

•

the risks described under “Item 1A — Risk Factors.”

We undertake no obligation to
update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of
new information, future events, or otherwise.

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

This section discusses the
most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial
condition. It does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us,
our industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks, as
well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we
currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially
adversely affected. In that event, the value of our securities could decline.

We group these risk factors
into three categories:

•

Risks arising from our business;

•

Risks arising from our capital structure; and

•

Risks arising from our status as a REIT.

Risks Arising from Our Business


Our
investments in and acquisitions of health care and seniors housing properties
may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations

We are exposed to the risk
that some of our acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could encounter
unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired
properties, including contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might
require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our
ongoing business. If we agree to provide construction funding to an
operator/tenant and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to
ensure completion of the project. Such expenditures may negatively affect our
results of operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our
anticipated acquisitions and investments, the completion of which is subject to
various conditions, will be consummated in accordance with anticipated timing,
on anticipated terms, or at all.  We also may be unable to quickly and efficiently
integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of
properties, into our existing operations, and this could have an adverse effect
on our results of operations and financial condition.

Our investments in joint
ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of exclusive control over
these investments, our partners’ insolvency or failure to meet their
obligations and disputes between us and our partners

We have entered into, and may
continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other
persons or entities. Joint venture investments involve risks that may not be
present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that our
partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due
or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain
liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might
at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or
become inconsistent with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged
in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional
resources to resolve such dispute and could have an adverse impact on the
operations and profitability of the joint venture; and that our partner may be
in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions
or requests. In addition, our ability to transfer our interest in a joint
venture to a third party may be restricted. In some instances, we and/or our
partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause
us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner’s interest, at a time when we
otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire
our partner’s interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash,
available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. In such event, we may
be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise
prefer to retain it. Joint ventures may require us to share decision-making
authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the
properties in the joint ventures. Even when we have a controlling interest,
certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition
or financing of a property.

We are exposed to operational
risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that could
adversely affect our revenue and operations

We are exposed to various
operational risks with respect to our seniors housing operating properties that
may increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues.
These risks include fluctuations in occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement, if applicable, and private pay rates; economic conditions;
competition; federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure,
certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards; the availability
and increases in cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage;
state regulation and rights of residents related to entrance fees; and the
availability and increases in the cost of labor (as a result of unionization or
otherwise). Any one or a combination of these factors may adversely affect our
revenue and operations.

Decreases in our operators’
revenues or increases in our operators’ expenses could affect our operators’
ability to make payments to us

Our operators’ revenues are
primarily driven by occupancy, private pay rates, and Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement, if applicable. Expenses for these facilities are primarily
driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or
debt service. Revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to,
come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls.
Operating costs continue to increase for our operators. To the extent that any
decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a
property not generating enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator
and the value of other collateral would have to be relied upon. To the extent
the value of such property is reduced, we may need to record an impairment for
such asset. Furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming
property, such sale may result in a loss. Any such impairment or loss on sale
would negatively affect our financial results.

Increased competition may
affect our operators’ ability to meet their obligations to

us

The operators of our
properties compete on a local and regional basis with operators of properties
and other health care providers that provide comparable services. We cannot be
certain that the operators of all of our facilities will be able to achieve and
maintain


occupancy and rate levels that will enable them
to meet all of their obligations to us. Our operators are expected to encounter
increased competition in the future that could limit their ability to attract
residents or expand their businesses.

The insolvency or bankruptcy
of our obligors may adversely affect our business, results of operations and
financial condition

We are exposed to the risk
that our obligors may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or
other payments due us, which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency,
or that an obligor might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings
for other reasons. Although our operating lease agreements provide us with the
right to evict a tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other
remedies, and our loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding
obligation, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest,
foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and
insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy
or reorganization. An obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency
proceedings may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in
the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of
a loan, and to exercise other rights and remedies.

We may be required to fund
certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the
value of an investment property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property
and/or transition a property to a new tenant. In some instances, we have
terminated our lease with a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. In
some of those situations, we have provided working capital loans to and limited
indemnification of the new obligor. If we cannot transition a leased property
to a new tenant, we may take possession of that property, which may expose us
to certain successor liabilities. Should such events occur, our revenue and
operating cash flow may be adversely affected.

We may not be able to timely
reinvest our sale proceeds on terms acceptable to us

From time to time, we will
have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2)
principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties,
including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or
similar financial support arrangements. In order to maintain current revenues
and continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these
proceeds in a timely manner. We compete for real estate investments with a
broad variety of potential investors. This competition for attractive
investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on
terms acceptable to us.

Failure to properly manage
our rapid growth could distract our management or increase

our
expenses

We have experienced rapid
growth and development in a relatively short period of time and expect to
continue this rapid growth in the future. This growth has resulted in increased
levels of responsibility for our management. Future property acquisitions could
place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our
management, resources and personnel. Our failure to manage any such rapid
growth effectively could harm our business and, in particular, our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could negatively affect
our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our growth could also
increase our capital requirements, which may require us to issue potentially
dilutive equity securities and incur additional debt.

We depend on Genesis
Healthcare, LLC (“Genesis”) for a significant portion of our revenues and any
inability or unwillingness by Genesis to satisfy its obligations under its
agreements with us could adversely affect us

The properties we lease to
Genesis account for a significant portion of our revenues, and because our
leases with Genesis are triple-net leases, we also depend on Genesis to pay all
insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection
with the leased properties. We cannot assure you that Genesis will have
sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable it to make rental
payments to us or to otherwise satisfy its obligations under our leases, and any
inability or unwillingness by Genesis to do so could have an adverse effect on
us. Genesis has also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and
against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with
its business, and we cannot assure you that Genesis will have sufficient
assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable it to
satisfy its indemnification obligations.

The properties managed by
Sunrise Senior Living, LLC account for a significant portion of our revenues
and operating income and any adverse developments in its business or financial
condition could adversely affect us

Sunrise Senior Living, LLC
manages our entire Sunrise property portfolio, which as of December 31, 2014,
consisted of 140 seniors housing properties.  These properties account for a
significant portion of our revenues, and we rely on Sunrise Senior Living, LLC
to manage these properties efficiently and effectively.  Any adverse
developments in Sunrise Senior Living, LLC’s business or financial condition
could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively,
which could adversely affect us.

Ownership of property outside
the United States may subject us to different or greater risks than those
associated with our domestic operations


We
have operations in Canada and the United Kingdom. International development,
ownership, and operating activities involve risks that are different from those
we face with respect to our domestic properties and operations. These risks
include, but are not limited to, any international currency gain recognized
with respect to changes in exchange rates may not qualify under the 75% gross
income test or the 95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order
to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT;

challenges with respect to
the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash; changes in foreign political,
regulatory, and economic conditions, including regionally, nationally, and
locally; challenges in managing international operations; challenges of
complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including those
relating to real estate, corporate governance, operations, taxes, employment
and legal proceedings;

foreign ownership
restrictions with respect to operations in countries; differences in lending
practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide
financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and economic
instability; and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the
United States that affect foreign operations, including, but not limited to,
the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. If we are unable to successfully manage
the risks associated with international expansion and operations, our results
of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.

We do not know if our tenants
will renew their existing leases, and if they do not,

we may be
unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all

We cannot predict whether our
tenants will renew existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which
expire at various times. If these leases are not renewed, we would be required
to find other tenants to occupy those properties or sell them. There can be no
assurance that we would be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or
enter into leases with new tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current
leases or that we would be able to lease those properties at all.

Our operators’ may not have the necessary insurance
coverage to insure adequately against losses

In recent years,
long-term/post-acute care and seniors housing operators have experienced
substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability
claims. As a result, general and professional liability costs have increased in
some markets. General and professional liability insurance coverage may be
restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect the property operators’
future

operations, cash
flows and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the
property operators’ ability to meet their obligations to us.

Our ownership of properties
through ground leases exposes us to the loss of such

properties
upon breach or termination of the ground leases

We have acquired an interest
in certain of our properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property
on which the building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in
the future through the purchase of interests in ground leases. As the lessee
under a ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property
upon termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease
by us.

The requirements of, or
changes to, governmental reimbursement programs, such as Medicare or Medicaid,
could have a material adverse effect on our obligors’ liquidity, financial
condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect our obligors’
ability to meet their obligations to us

Some of our obligors’
businesses are affected by government reimbursement. To the extent that an
operator/tenant receives a significant portion of its revenues from government
payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory
and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program
overpayments or set-offs, court decisions, administrative rulings, policy
interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers,
government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific
facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing
government investigations and audits at such property. In recent years,
government payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due
to budgetary pressures. Health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of
paramount importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any
assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms
may have on the financial condition of our obligors and properties. There can
be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for
services provided by any property operator, whether the property receives
reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on
the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have
a material adverse effect on an obligor’s liquidity, financial condition and
results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor
to meet its obligations to us. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government
Regulations — United States — Reimbursement” above.

The Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act of 2010, as modified by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation
Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Health Reform Laws”), provides those states
that expand their Medicaid coverage to otherwise eligible state residents with
incomes at or below 138% of the federal poverty level with an increased federal
medical assistance percentage, effective January 1, 2014, when certain
conditions are met. On June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld
the individual mandate of the Health Reform Laws but partially invalidated the
expansion of Medicaid. The ruling on Medicaid expansion allows


states to elect not to participate in the expansion—and
to forego funding for the Medicaid expansion—without losing their existing
Medicaid funding. Given that the federal government substantially funds the
Medicaid expansion, it is unclear how many states will ultimately pursue this
option, although, as of late January 2015, roughly half of the states have
expanded Medicaid coverage. The participation by states in the Medicaid
expansion could have the dual effect of increasing our tenants’ revenues,
through new patients, but further straining state budgets and their ability to
pay our tenants. While the federal government will pay for approximately 100%
of those additional costs from 2014 to 2016, states will be expected to pay for
part of those additional costs beginning in 2017. In light of this, at least
one state that has passed legislation to allow the state to expand its Medicaid
coverage has included sunset provisions in the legislation that require that
the expanded benefits be reduced or eliminated if the federal government’s
funding for the program is decreased or eliminated, permitting the state to
re-visit the issue once it begins to share financial responsibility for the
expansion. With increasingly strained budgets, it is unclear how states that do
not include such sunset provisions will pay their share of these additional
Medicaid costs and what other health care expenditures could be reduced as a
result. A significant reduction in other health care related spending by states
to pay for increased Medicaid costs could affect our tenants’ revenue streams.
See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States —
Reimbursement” above.

More generally, and because of
the dynamic nature of the legislative and regulatory environment for health
care products and services, and in light of existing federal deficit and
budgetary concerns, we cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching
legislative or regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business
or that of our operators and tenants.

Our operators’ or tenants’
failure to comply with federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure,
certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards could adversely
affect such operators’ or tenants’ operations, which could adversely affect our
operators’ and tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us

Our operators and tenants
generally are subject to varying levels of federal, state, local, and
industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations,
and standards. Our operators’ or tenants’ failure to comply with any of these
laws, regulations, or standards could result in loss of accreditation, denial
of reimbursement, imposition of fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion
from federal and state health care programs, loss of license or closure of the
facility. Such actions may have an effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability
to make lease payments to us and, therefore, adversely impact us. See “Item 1 —
Business — Certain Government Regulations — United States — Other Related Laws”
above.

Many of our properties may
require a license, registration, and/or certificate of need (“CON”) to operate.
Failure to obtain a license, registration, or CON, or loss of a required
license, registration, or CON would prevent a facility from operating in the
manner intended by the operators or tenants. These events could materially
adversely affect our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make rent payments to
us. State and local laws also may regulate the expansion, including the
addition of new beds or services or acquisition of medical equipment, and the
construction or renovation of health care facilities, by requiring a CON or
other similar approval from a state agency. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain
Government Regulations — United States — Licensing and Certification” above.

Illiquidity of real estate
investments could significantly impede our ability to

respond to
adverse changes in the performance of our properties

Real estate investments are
relatively illiquid. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our
properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be
limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any
property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to
respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could

adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations. In addition, we are exposed to the risks
inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in particular, the
seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the real estate
industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell
properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us.

Unfavorable resolution of
pending and future litigation matters and disputes could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition

From time to time, we may be
directly involved in a number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims.
We may also be named as defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our
actions or the actions of our operators/tenants or managers in which such
operators/tenants or managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us
harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in
connection with their respective businesses. An unfavorable resolution of
pending or future litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of its outcome,
litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly
divert the attention of management. There can be no assurance that we will be
able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending or future
litigation. In addition, pending litigation or future litigation, government
proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or
interruption of our normal business operations.

Development, redevelopment
and construction risks could affect our profitability


At
any given time, we may be in the process of constructing one or more new
facilities that ultimately will require a CON and license before they can be
utilized by the operator for their intended use. The operator also may need to
obtain Medicare and Medicaid certification and enter into Medicare and Medicaid
provider agreements and/or third party payor contracts. In the event that the
operator is unable to obtain the necessary CON, licensure, certification,
provider agreements or contracts after the completion of construction, there is
a risk that we will not be able to earn any revenues on the facility until
either the initial operator obtains a license or certification to operate the
new facility and the necessary provider agreements or contracts or we find and
contract with a new operator that is able to obtain a license to operate the
facility for its intended use and the necessary provider agreements or
contracts.

In connection with our
renovation, redevelopment, development and related construction activities, we
may be unable to obtain, or suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning,
land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and
authorizations. These factors could result in increased costs or our
abandonment of these projects. In addition, we may not be able to obtain
financing on favorable terms, which may render us unable to proceed with our
development activities, and we may not be able to complete construction and
lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt
service expense or construction costs.

Additionally, the time frame
required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that
we may have to wait years for significant cash returns. Because we are required
to make cash distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from
operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow
additional money to fund such distributions. Newly developed and acquired
properties may not produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely
affect our overall financial performance.

In deciding whether to acquire
or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected
future performance of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on
our investment based on expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs. If
our financial projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a
result of increases in capital costs or other factors, the property may fail to
perform as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs
of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be
inaccurate, which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals.
Additionally, we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the
cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating
expenses and debt service associated with that property.

We may
experience losses caused by severe weather conditions or natural disasters,
which could result in an increase of our or our tenants’ cost of insurance, a
decrease in our anticipated revenues or a significant loss of the capital we
have invested in a property

We maintain
or require our tenants to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage on our
properties with terms, conditions, limits and deductibles that we believe are
appropriate given the relative risk and costs of such coverage, and we
continually review our insurance programs and requirements. However, a large
number of our properties are located in areas particularly susceptible to
revenue loss, cost increase or damage caused by severe weather conditions or
natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and floods. We
believe, given current industry practice and analysis prepared by outside
consultants, that our and our tenants’ insurance coverage is appropriate to
cover reasonably anticipated losses that may be caused by hurricanes,
earthquakes, tornadoes, floods and other severe weather conditions and natural
disasters. Nevertheless, we are always subject to the risk that such insurance
will not fully cover all losses and, depending on the severity of the event and
the impact on our properties, such insurance may not cover a significant
portion of the losses. These losses may lead to an increase of our and our
tenants’ cost of insurance, a decrease in our anticipated revenues from an
affected property and a loss of all or a portion of the capital we have
invested in an affected property.  In addition, we or our tenants may not
purchase insurance under certain circumstances if the cost of insurance
exceeds, in our or our tenants’ judgment, the value of the coverage relative to
the risk of loss.

We may incur costs to
remediate environmental contamination at our properties, which could have an
adverse effect on our or our obligors’ business or financial condition

Under various federal and
state laws, owners or operators of real estate may be required to respond to
the presence or release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held
liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from
environmental contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. We may become
liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in
connection with the contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a
person based on the person’s relationship to the property. Our tenants or
borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property.
Moreover, we review environmental site assessments of the properties that we
own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are
designed to meet the “all appropriate inquiry” standard, which we believe
qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities
arise. Based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our
properties are subject to material environmental contamination. However,
environmental liabilities may be present in our properties and we may incur
costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on
our business or financial condition or the business or financial condition of
our obligors.

Cybersecurity incidents could
disrupt our business and result in the loss of confidential information


Our business is at risk from
and may be impacted by cybersecurity attacks, including attempts to gain unauthorized
access to our confidential data, and other electronic security breaches. Such
cyber attacks can range from individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to
our information technology systems to more sophisticated security threats.
While we employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these
threats, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a
cyber attack. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt our business and compromise
the confidential information of our employees, operators and tenants.

Our certificate of
incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions

Our certificate of
incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on
share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval
requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for
or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our
incumbent Board of Directors. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or
discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock.

Our success depends on key
personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed

We are dependent on key
personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with our
executive officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an
adverse impact on our operations. We believe that losing more than one could
have a material adverse impact on our business.

Risks Arising from Our Capital
Structure

We may become more leveraged

Permanent financing for our
investments is typically provided through a combination of public offerings of
debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt.
The incurrence or assumption of indebtedness may cause us to become more
leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash
flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn
in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4)
negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the rating
agencies.

We are subject to covenants
in our debt agreements that may restrict or limit our operations and
acquisitions and our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt
agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of
operations and financial condition

Our debt agreements contain
various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things,
these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum
net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness,
create liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants
could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable
indebtedness, in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against
such instruments. These defaults could have a material adverse impact on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

Limitations on our ability to
access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make future
investments or to meet our obligations and commitments

We cannot assure you that we
will be able to raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to
meet our obligations and commitments as they mature.  Our access to capital
depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or no control,
including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market conditions;
the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential
future earnings and cash distributions; the market price of the shares of our
capital stock and the credit ratings of our debt securities; the financial
stability of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their
commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us; changes
in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities; or default or delay
in payment by the United States of its obligations. If our access to capital is
limited by these factors or other factors, it could negatively impact our
ability to acquire properties, repay or refinance our indebtedness, fund
operations or make distributions to our stockholders.

Downgrades in our credit
ratings could have a material adverse impact on our cost and availability of
capital

We plan to manage the Company
to maintain a capital structure consistent with our current profile, but there
can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current credit
ratings. Any downgrades in terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the
rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on our cost and
availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse impact on
our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.


Fluctuations in the value of
foreign currencies could adversely affect our results of operations and
financial position

As we expand our operations
internationally, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results
of operations and financial position. We expect to generate an increasing
portion of our revenue and expenses in such foreign currencies as the Canadian
dollar and the British pound. Although we may enter into foreign exchange
agreements with financial institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage
debt in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign
currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency fluctuations will not
have a material adverse effect on us.

Our entry into swap
agreements may not effectively reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates
or foreign currency exchange rates

We enter into swap agreements
from time to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign
currency exchange rate volatility. These swap agreements involve risks, such as
the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these
arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing
our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates.
When we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will
not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to
hedge. If such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely
affected.

Risks Arising from Our Status as
a REIT

We might fail to qualify or
remain qualified as a REIT

We intend to operate as a REIT
under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and believe
we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. If we lose our status as
a REIT, we will face serious income tax consequences that will substantially
reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution
to our stockholders because:

•

we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in
computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at
regular corporate rates;

•

we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly
increased state and local taxes; and

•

unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could
not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the
year during which we were disqualified.

Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a
number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill
them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of U.S. federal
and other income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the
amount we could distribute to our stockholders. If we do not qualify as a REIT,
we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-REIT
is not required to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain REIT
status or avoid an excise tax. See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal
Income Tax Considerations” above for a discussion of the provisions of the Code
that apply to us and the effects of failure to qualify as a REIT.

In addition, if we fail to
qualify as a REIT, all distributions to stockholders would continue to be
treated as dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and
profits, although corporate stockholders may be eligible for the dividends
received deduction, and individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at
the rates generally applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a
maximum rate of 20%) with respect to distributions.

As a result of all these
factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to
implement our business strategy and would adversely affect the value of our
common stock.

Qualification as a REIT
involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for
which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The
determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within
our control may affect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we
believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue
to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations” above.

Certain subsidiaries might
fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT

As a result of our acquisition
of shares in Senior Housing Realty Trust (“SHRT”), we own a minority interest
in an entity which elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax
purposes.  Additionally, we own substantially all of the outstanding stock of a
subsidiary which we consolidate for financial reporting purposes but which is
treated as a separate REIT for federal income tax purposes (together with SHRT,
each a “Subsidiary REIT”).  To qualify as a REIT, each Subsidiary REIT must
independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements under the
Code, together with all other rules applicable to REITs.  Provided that each


Subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT, our interests in the
Subsidiary REITs will be treated as qualifying real estate assets for purposes
of the REIT asset tests.  See “Item 1 – Business – Taxation – Federal Income
Tax Considerations – Qualification as a REIT – Asset Tests” above.  If a
Subsidiary REIT fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, such Subsidiary
REIT will be subject to federal and state income taxes and may not be able to
qualify as a REIT for the four subsequent taxable years.  Any such failure
could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the REIT income and
asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a REIT, unless we are able to
avail ourselves of certain relief provisions.

The 90% annual distribution
requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in
otherwise beneficial transactions

To comply with the 90%
distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible
excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders. See “Item 1 —
Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification as a
REIT — Annual Distribution Requirements” above. Although we anticipate that we
generally will have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy
the REIT distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we
may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution
requirement, or we may decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount
as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation. This may be due to
timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of
deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and
deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other
hand. In addition, non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or
repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause
us to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the
90% distribution requirement. In the event that timing differences occur, or we
deem it appropriate to retain cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional
equity securities (although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do
so), pay taxable stock dividends, if possible, distribute other property or
securities or engage in another transaction intended to enable us to meet the
REIT distribution requirements. This may require us to raise additional capital
to meet our obligations.

The lease of qualified health
care properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to special requirements

We lease certain qualified
health care properties to taxable REIT subsidiaries (or limited liability
companies of which the taxable REIT subsidiaries are members), which lessees
contract with managers (or related parties) to manage the health care operations
at these properties. The rents from this taxable REIT subsidiary lessee
structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are
paid pursuant to an arms-length lease of a qualified health care property with
a taxable REIT subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible
independent contractor (as defined in the Code). If any of these conditions are
not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. See “Item 1 —
Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification as a
REIT — Income Tests”

above.

If certain sale-leaseback
transactions are not characterized by the Internal Revenue Service as “true
leases,” we may be subject to adverse tax consequences

We have purchased certain
properties and leased them back to the sellers of such properties, and we may
enter into similar transactions in the future. We intend for any such
sale-leaseback transaction to be structured in such a manner that the lease
will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as
the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However,
depending on the terms of any specific transaction, the Internal Revenue
Service might take the position that the transaction is not a “true lease” but is
more properly treated in some other manner. In the event any sale-leaseback
transaction is challenged and successfully re-characterized by the Internal
Revenue Service, we would not be entitled to claim the deductions for
depreciation and

cost recovery
generally available to an owner of property. Furthermore, if a sale-leaseback
transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT asset
tests or income tests and, consequently, could lose our REIT status effective
with the year of re-characterization. See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation —
Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification as a REIT — Asset Tests” and
“Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations —
Qualification as a REIT — Income Tests” above. Alternatively, the amount of our
REIT taxable income could be recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet
the REIT annual distribution requirements for a taxable year. See “Item 1 —
Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification as a REIT
— Annual Distribution Requirements” above.

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

None.


Item 2.

Properties

We
own our corporate headquarters located at 4500 Dorr Street, Toledo, Ohio 43615.
We also lease corporate offices in Florida, California and the United Kingdom
and have ground leases relating to certain of our properties. The following
table sets forth certain information regarding the properties that comprise our
consolidated real property and real estate loan investments as of December 31,
2014 (dollars in thousands and annualized revenues adjusted for timing of
investment):

Seniors
  Housing Triple-Net

Seniors
  Housing Operating

Property Location

Number
  of Properties

Total
  Investment

Annualized
  Revenues

Number
  of Properties

Total
  Investment

Annualized
  Revenues

Alabama


$

36,941

$

3,765

-

$

-

$

-

Arizona


6,963



63,984

22,847

California


532,723

54,606


1,343,848

373,773

Colorado


76,048

9,645


148,070

37,734

Connecticut


179,783

19,647


327,746

112,555

District Of Columbia

-

-

-


66,257

13,790

Delaware


164,414

18,231


22,165

5,420

Florida


602,039

53,326

-

-

-

Georgia


105,483

10,121


126,861

35,139

Iowa


48,193

4,165


34,082

8,209

Idaho


34,397

3,640

-

-

-

Illinois


343,389

30,642


442,507

94,739

Indiana


431,753

44,737

-

-

-

Kansas


142,586

14,826


71,987

16,886

Kentucky


102,297

15,467


40,233

11,977

Louisiana


22,642

3,353


53,481

11,547

Massachusetts


413,211

53,334


558,492

139,977

Maryland


415,111

39,394


85,677

31,766

Maine

-

-

-


54,156

18,246

Michigan


121,909

10,760


115,759

23,310

Minnesota


37,186

3,438


118,380

24,275

Missouri


29,066

2,913


116,500

14,769

Mississippi


31,053

3,364

-

-

-

Montana


6,482


-

-

-

North Carolina


374,384

38,821


42,504

7,369

Nebraska


136,705

15,333

-

-

-

New Hampshire


177,255

21,987


79,396

18,091

New Jersey


1,296,969

127,150


249,811

65,758

New Mexico

-

-

-


19,468


Nevada


101,238

13,350


38,314

10,020

New York


205,222

17,685


307,829

72,573

Ohio


236,656

38,088


197,435

34,084

Oklahoma


130,829

13,173


39,039

3,263

Oregon


3,400


-

-

-

Pennsylvania


848,335

93,805


84,683

36,715

Rhode Island


45,102

5,667


70,499

20,827

South Carolina


36,129

10,287

-

-

-

Tennessee


184,515

26,731


51,167

15,219

Texas


614,366

71,312


328,093

75,905

Utah


5,824



17,223

11,161

Virginia


208,884

19,830


39,296

15,035

Vermont


26,171

3,300


28,749

7,183

Washington


408,435

40,676


271,099

47,110

Wisconsin


234,308

25,247

-

-

-

West Virginia


370,338

46,558

-

-

-

Total domestic


9,528,734

1,031,802


5,654,792

1,438,263

Canada


323,486

18,114


1,146,379

232,892

United Kingdom


581,885

42,929


1,537,562

309,300

Total international


905,371

61,043


2,683,941

542,192

Grand total


$

10,434,105

$

1,092,845


$

8,338,733

$

1,980,455


Medical
  Facilities

Property Location

Number
  of Properties

Total
  Investment

Annualized
  Revenues

Alaska


$

23,380

$

3,046

Alabama


31,865

5,065

Arkansas


25,987

2,935

Arizona


71,703

8,683

California


463,260

44,814

Colorado


12,738

1,990

Florida


485,233

50,128

Georgia


170,333

22,605

Iowa


7,080

1,394

Illinois


39,709

7,199

Indiana


157,528

17,514

Kansas


81,588

13,117

Maryland


22,549

2,293

Maine


22,815

2,932

Michigan


16,959

1,797

Minnesota


187,699

25,948

Missouri


156,324

17,768

North Carolina


60,114

6,856

Nebraska


38,619

5,658

New Hampshire


15,317

1,580

New Jersey


224,503

37,736

New Mexico


36,180

3,638

Nevada


47,452

3,512

New York


67,180

7,660

Ohio


79,612

12,321

Oklahoma


27,550

3,415

Oregon


10,038

1,363

South Carolina


28,101

2,259

Tennessee


82,061

10,276

Texas


898,805

89,942

Virginia


62,816

7,689

Washington


164,550

16,342

Wisconsin


258,710

27,700

Total


$

4,078,358

$

467,175

The
following table sets forth occupancy, coverages and average annualized revenues
for certain property types (excluding investments in unconsolidated entities):

Occupancy

(1)

Coverages

(1,2)

Average
  Annualized Revenues

(3)







Seniors housing triple-net

(4)

87.7%

87.7%

1.54x

1.58x

$

14,562

$

14,000

per bed/unit

Seniors housing operating

(5)

90.3%

90.7%

n/a

n/a

67,376

65,374

per unit

Medical facilities

(6)

94.4%

94.5%

n/a

n/a



per sq. ft.

(1) We use unaudited, periodic financial information provided
  solely by tenants/borrowers to calculate occupancy and coverages for
  properties other than medical office buildings and have not independently
  verified the information.

(2) Represents the ratio of our triple-net customers' earnings
  before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees
  to contractual rent or interest due us. Data reflects the 12 months ended
  September 30 for the periods presented.

(3) Represents annualized revenues divided by total beds, units
  or square feet as presented in the tables above.

(4) Occupancy represents average quarterly operating occupancy
  based on the quarters ended September 30 and excludes properties that are
  unstabilized, closed or for which data is not available or meaningful.

(5) Occupancy for seniors housing operating represents average
  occupancy for the three months ended December 31.

(6) Medical office building occupancy represents the percentage
  of total rentable square feet leased and occupied (including month-to-month
  and holdover leases and excluding terminations and discontinued operations)
  as of December 31.


The following table sets forth
information regarding lease expirations for certain portions of our portfolio as
of December 31, 2014 (dollars in thousands):

Expiration
  Year











Thereafter

Seniors housing triple-net:

Properties


-










Base rent

(1)

$

37,423

$

-

$

14,907

$

37,421

$

2,973

$

14,870

$

38,293

$

36,309

$

18,442

$

45,602

$

798,931

% of base rent

3.6%

0.0%

1.4%

3.6%

0.3%

1.4%

3.7%

3.5%

1.8%

4.4%

76.4%

Units


-

1,467

3,151


1,079

3,806

5,144

1,357

2,254

52,029

% of units

0.1%

0.0%

2.1%

4.5%

0.3%

1.5%

5.4%

7.3%

1.9%

3.2%

73.7%

Medical office buildings:

Square feet

711,737

790,389

1,218,498

920,688

1,070,191

968,769

1,118,555

2,108,813

1,047,083

1,367,691

2,956,912

Base rent

(1)

$

17,440

$

18,299

$

29,078

$

21,994

$

25,896

$

22,791

$

28,386

$

43,663

$

26,007

$

36,446

$

71,813

% of base rent

5.1%

5.4%

8.5%

6.4%

7.6%

6.7%

8.3%

12.8%

7.6%

10.7%

20.9%

Leases












% of leases

15.0%

11.5%

14.2%

11.0%

11.8%

6.5%

6.8%

7.7%

4.6%

5.8%

5.1%

(1) The most recent monthly base rent including straight line
  for leases with fixed escalators or annual cash rents with contingent
  escalators.  Base rent does not include tenant recoveries or amortization of
  above and below market lease intangibles.

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

From time to time,
there are various legal proceedings pending to which we are a party or to which
some of our properties are subject arising in the normal course of business. We
do not believe that the ultimate resolution of these proceedings will have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

Item 4.

Mine Safety
Disclosures

None.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for
Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder

Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

There
were 4,960 stockholders of record as of January 31, 2015. The following table
sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low prices of our common
stock on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:HCN), and common dividends paid per
share:

Sales
  Price

Dividends
  Paid

High

Low

Per
  Share


First Quarter

$

59.93

$

52.90

$

0.795

Second Quarter

65.25

58.91

0.795

Third Quarter

68.36

61.42

0.795

Fourth Quarter

78.17

62.05

0.795


First Quarter

$

67.92

$

60.78

$

0.765

Second Quarter

80.07

61.62

0.765

Third Quarter

68.79

58.16

0.765

Fourth Quarter

66.76

52.43

0.765

Our Board of Directors has approved a
new quarterly cash dividend rate of $0.825 per share of common stock per
quarter, commencing with the February 2015 dividend. The declaration and
payment of quarterly dividends remains subject to the review and approval of
the Board of Directors.


Stockholder Return Performance
Presentation

Set forth below is a line graph
comparing the yearly percentage change and the cumulative total stockholder
return on our shares of common stock against the cumulative total return of the
S & P Composite-500 Stock Index and the FTSE NAREIT Equity Index. As
of December 31, 2014, 156 companies comprised the FTSE NAREIT Equity Index. The
Index consists of REITs identified by NAREIT as equity (those REITs which have
at least 75% of their investments in real property). The data are based on the
closing prices as of December 31 for each of the five years. 2009 equals $100
and dividends are assumed to be reinvested.

12/31/09

12/31/10

12/31/11

12/31/12

12/31/13

12/31/14

S
  & P 500

100.00

115.06

117.49

136.30

180.44

205.14

Health
  Care REIT, Inc.

100.00

114.33

138.65

163.91

150.11

222.93

FTSE
  NAREIT Equity

100.00

127.96

138.57

163.60

167.63

218.16

Except to the extent that we specifically incorporate
this information by reference, the foregoing Stockholder Return Performance
Presentation shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general
statement incorporating by reference this Annual Report on Form 10-K into
any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. This information shall not
otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts.

Issuer
  Purchases of Equity Securities

Period

Total
  Number of Shares Purchased

Average
  Price Paid Per Share

Total
  Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs

(1)

Maximum
  Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs

October 1, 2014 through October 31, 2014

-

$

-

November 1, 2014 through November 30, 2014

-

-

December 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014

-

-

Totals

-

$

-

(1) No shares were purchased as part of publicly announced plans
  or programs.


Item 6.

Selected
Financial Data

The
following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 2014
are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements (in thousands,
except per share data):

Year
  Ended December 31,






Operating Data

Revenues

(1)

$

559,491

$

1,313,182

$

1,805,044

$

2,880,608

$

3,343,546

Expenses

(1)

526,515

1,200,979

1,619,132

2,778,363

2,959,333

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and income
  (loss) from unconsolidated entities

32,976

112,203

185,912

102,245

384,213

Income tax (expense) benefit

(364)

(1,388)

(7,612)

(7,491)

1,267

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

6,673

5,772

2,482

(8,187)

(27,426)

Income from continuing operations

39,285

116,587

180,782

86,567

358,054

Income from discontinued operations, net

(1)

89,599

96,129

114,058

51,713

7,135

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

-

-

-

-

147,111

Net income

128,884

212,716

294,840

138,280

512,300

Preferred stock dividends

21,645

60,502

69,129

66,336

65,408

Preferred stock redemption charge

-

-

6,242

-

-

Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests


(4,894)

(2,415)

(6,770)


Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

106,882

$

157,108

$

221,884

$

78,714

$

446,745

Other Data

Average number of common shares outstanding:

Basic

127,656

173,741

224,343

276,929

306,272

Diluted

128,208

174,401

225,953

278,761

307,747

Per Share Data

Basic:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common
  stockholders

$

0.14

$

0.35

$

0.48

$

0.10

$

1.44

Discontinued operations, net

0.70

0.55

0.51

0.19

0.02

Net income attributable to common stockholders *

$

0.84

$

0.90

$

0.99

$

0.28

$

1.46

Diluted:

Income from continuing operations attributable to common
  stockholders

$

0.13

$

0.35

$

0.48

$

0.10

$

1.43

Discontinued operations, net

0.70

0.55

0.50

0.19

0.02

Net income attributable to common stockholders *

$

0.83

$

0.90

$

0.98

$

0.28

$

1.45

Cash distributions per common share

$

2.74

$

2.835

$

2.96

$

3.06

$

3.18

* Amounts may not sum due to rounding

(1) We have
  reclassified the income and expenses attributable to properties sold prior to
  or held for sale at December 31, 2013, to discontinued operations for all
  periods presented. See Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.

December
  31,

Balance Sheet Data






Net real estate investments

$

8,590,833

$

13,942,350

$

17,423,009

$

21,680,221

$

22,851,196

Total assets

9,451,734

14,924,606

19,549,109

23,083,957

25,014,296

Total long-term obligations

4,469,736

7,240,752

8,531,899

10,652,014

10,828,013

Total liabilities

4,714,081

7,612,309

8,993,998

11,292,587

11,454,838

Total preferred stock

291,667

1,010,417

1,022,917

1,017,361

1,006,250

Total equity

4,733,100

7,278,647

10,520,519

11,756,331

13,473,049


EXECUTIVE
  SUMMARY

Company Overview

Business Strategy

Capital Market Outlook

Key Transactions in 2014

Key Performance
  Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties

Corporate Governance







LIQUIDITY
  AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Sources and Uses of Cash

Off-Balance Sheet
  Arrangements

Contractual Obligations

Capital Structure





RESULTS
  OF OPERATIONS

Summary

Seniors Housing Triple-net

Seniors Housing Operating

Medical Facilities

Non-Segment/Corporate






OTHER

Non-GAAP Financial
  Measures


Critical Accounting
  Policies



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

The
following discussion and analysis is based primarily on the consolidated
financial statements of Health Care REIT, Inc. for the periods presented and
should be read together with the notes thereto contained in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K. Other important factors are identified in
“Item 1 — Business” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” above.

Executive Summary

Company Overview

Health
Care REIT, Inc. is a real estate investment trust (“REIT”) that has been at the
forefront of seniors housing and health care real estate since the company was
founded in 1970.  We are an S&P 500 company headquartered in Toledo, Ohio. Our
portfolio spans the full spectrum of seniors housing and health care real
estate, including seniors housing communities, long-term/post-acute care facilities,
medical office buildings, inpatient and outpatient medical centers and life
science facilities. Our capital programs, when combined with comprehensive
planning, development and property management services, make us a single-source
solution for acquiring, planning, developing, managing, repositioning and
monetizing real estate assets.

The following table
summarizes our consolidated portfolio as of December 31, 2014:

Investments

Percentage
  of

Number
  of

Type
  of Property

(in
  thousands)

(1)

Investments

Properties

Seniors housing triple-net

$

10,434,105

45.7%


Seniors housing operating

8,338,733

36.5%


Medical facilities

4,078,358

17.8%


Totals

$

22,851,196

100.0%

1,260

(1) Excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated
  entities.  Entities in which we have a joint venture with a minority partner
  are shown at 100% of the joint venture amount.

Business
Strategy

Our
primary objectives are to protect stockholder capital and enhance stockholder
value. We seek to pay consistent cash dividends to stockholders and create
opportunities to increase dividend payments to stockholders as a result of
annual increases in net operating income and portfolio growth. To meet these
objectives, we invest across the full spectrum of seniors housing and health
care real estate and diversify our investment portfolio by property type, relationship
and geographic location.

Substantially
all of our revenues are derived from operating lease rentals, resident fees and
services, and interest earned on outstanding loans receivable. These items
represent our primary sources of liquidity to fund distributions and depend
upon the continued ability of our obligors to make contractual rent and
interest payments to us and the profitability of our operating properties. To
the extent that our customers/partners experience operating difficulties and become
unable to generate sufficient cash to make payments to us, there could be a
material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity
and/or financial condition. To mitigate this risk, we monitor our investments
through a variety of methods determined by the type of property. Our proactive
and comprehensive asset management process for seniors housing properties
generally includes review of monthly financial statements and other operating
data for each property, review of obligor/partner creditworthiness, property
inspections, and review of covenant compliance relating to licensure, real
estate taxes, letters of credit and other collateral. Our internal property
management division actively manages and monitors the medical office building
portfolio with a comprehensive process including review of, among other things,
tenant relations, lease expirations, the mix of health service providers,
hospital/health system relationships, property performance, capital improvement
needs, and market conditions. In monitoring our portfolio, our personnel use a
proprietary database to collect and analyze property-specific data.
Additionally, we conduct extensive research to ascertain industry trends.  We
evaluate the operating environment in each property’s market to determine the
likely trend in operating performance of the facility.  When we identify
unacceptable trends, we seek to mitigate, eliminate or transfer the risk.
Through these efforts, we are generally able to intervene at an early stage to
address any negative trends, and in so doing, support both the collectability
of revenue and the value of our investment.

In
addition to our asset management and research efforts, we also structure our
investments to help mitigate payment risk. Operating leases and loans are
normally credit enhanced by guaranties and/or letters of credit. In addition,
operating leases are typically structured as master leases and loans are
generally cross-defaulted and cross-collateralized with other real estate loans,
operating leases or agreements between us and the obligor and its affiliates.

For
the year ended December 31, 2014, rental income and resident fees represented 42%
and 57% respectively, of total revenues (including discontinued operations).  Substantially
all of our operating leases are designed with escalating rent structures.
Leases with fixed annual rental escalators are generally recognized on a
straight-line basis over the initial lease period, subject to a collectability
assessment. Rental income related to leases with contingent rental escalators
is generally recorded based on the contractual cash rental


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

payments
due for the period. Our yield on loans receivable depends upon a number of
factors, including the stated interest rate, the average principal amount
outstanding during the term of the loan and any interest rate adjustments.

Our
primary sources of cash include rent and interest receipts, resident fees and
services, borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility, public issuances
of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment dispositions and
principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include
dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and
interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital
expenditures, construction advances and transaction costs), loan advances,
property operating expenses and general and administrative expenses.  Depending
upon the availability and cost of external capital, we believe our liquidity is
sufficient to fund these uses of cash.

We
also continuously evaluate opportunities to finance future investments.  New
investments are generally funded from temporary borrowings under our primary unsecured
credit facility, internally generated cash and the proceeds from investment
dispositions. Our investments generate cash from net operating income and
principal payments on loans receivable. Permanent financing for future
investments, which generally replaces funds drawn under our primary unsecured credit
facility, has historically been provided through a combination of the issuance
of public debt and equity securities and the incurrence or assumption of
secured debt.

Depending
upon market conditions, we believe that new investments will be available in
the future with spreads over our cost of capital that will generate appropriate
returns to our stockholders. It is also possible that investment dispositions
may occur in the future. To the extent that investment dispositions exceed new
investments, our revenues and cash flows from operations could be adversely
affected. We expect to reinvest the proceeds from any investment dispositions
in new investments. To the extent that new investment requirements exceed our
available cash on-hand, we expect to borrow under our primary unsecured credit
facility. At December 31, 2014, we had $473,726,000 of cash and cash equivalents,
$79,697,000 of restricted cash and $2,428,723,000 of available borrowing
capacity under our primary unsecured credit facility.

Capital Market
Outlook

The
capital markets remain supportive of our investment strategy. For the year
ended December 31, 2014, we raised $3.2 billion in aggregate gross proceeds
through the issuance of common stock and unsecured debt. The capital raised, in
combination with available cash and borrowing capacity under our primary
unsecured credit facility, supported $3.7 billion in gross new investments for
the year. We expect attractive investment opportunities to remain available in
the future as we continue to leverage the benefits of our relationship
investment strategy.

Key Transactions in 2014

Capital

. 
In May 2014, we completed the public issuance of 16,100,000 shares of common
stock for approximate gross proceeds of $1,003,835,000.  In September 2014, we
completed the public issuance of 17,825,000 shares of common stock for
approximate gross proceeds of $1,136,344,000.  Also, for the year ended
December 31, 2014, we raised $257,055,000 through our dividend reinvestment
program.  In July 2014, we closed on a new primary unsecured credit facility
that includes a $2,500,000,000 unsecured revolving credit facility, a
$500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility and a $250,000,000 Canadian-denominated
unsecured term credit facility. Among other things, the primary unsecured
credit facility provides us with additional borrowing capacity and extends the
agreement to October 31, 2018.  It can be extended for an additional year at
our option. In November 2014, we issued £500,000,000 of 4.5% 20-year senior
unsecured notes, generating approximately $773,992,000 of net proceeds.

Investments

. The
following summarizes our acquisitions and joint venture investments made during
the year ended December 31, 2014 (dollars in thousands):

Properties

Investment
  Amount

(1)

Capitalization
  Rates

(2)

Book
  Amount

(3)

Seniors housing triple-net


$

1,519,657

7.0%

$

1,544,441

Seniors housing operating


893,593

6.4%

693,953

Medical facilities


665,398

6.2%

677,637

Total acquisitions/JVs


$

3,078,648

6.6%

$

2,916,031

(1) Represents stated purchase price including cash and any
  assumed debt but excludes fair value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP.

(2) Represents annualized contractual or projected income to be
  received in cash divided by investment amounts.

(3) Represents amounts recorded on our books including fair
  value adjustments pursuant to U.S. GAAP.  See Notes 3 and 7 to our
  consolidated financial statements for additional information.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Dispositions

. The following summarizes property dispositions made during
the year ended December 31, 2014 (dollars in thousands):

Properties

Proceeds

(1)

Capitalization
  Rates

(2)

Book
  Amount

(3)

Seniors housing triple-net


$

900,335

8.7%

$

747,720

Medical facilities


46,602

7.6%

45,695

Total property sales


$

946,937

8.7%

$

793,415

(1) Represents book amount plus net gains/losses. See Note 5 to
  our consolidated financial statements for additional information.

(2) Represents annualized contractual income that was being
  received in cash at date of disposition divided by book amount.

(3) Represents carrying value of assets at time of disposition.

Dividends

. Our Board of
Directors increased the annual cash dividend to $3.30 per common share ($0.825
per share quarterly), as compared to $3.18 per common share for 2014, beginning
in February 2015.  The dividend declared for the quarter ended December 31,
2014  represents the 175

th

consecutive quarterly dividend payment.

Key Performance Indicators, Trends and Uncertainties

We
utilize several key performance indicators to evaluate the various aspects of
our business. These indicators are discussed below and relate to operating
performance, credit strength  and concentration risk.  Management uses these
key performance indicators to facilitate internal and external comparisons to
our historical operating results, in making operating decisions and for budget
planning purposes.

Operating
Performance

. We believe that net income attributable to common stockholders
(“NICS”) is the most appropriate earnings measure. Other useful supplemental
measures of our operating performance include funds from operations (“FFO”),
net operating income from continuing operations (“NOI”) and same store cash NOI
(“SSCNOI”); however, these supplemental measures are not defined by U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”). Please refer to the
section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further discussion and
reconciliations of FFO, NOI and SSCNOI. These earnings measures and their
relative per share amounts are widely used by investors and analysts in the
valuation, comparison and investment recommendations of companies. The
following table reflects the recent historical trends of our operating
performance measures for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

221,884

$

78,714

$

446,745

Funds from operations

697,557

924,884

1,178,330

Net operating income from continuing operations

1,237,055

1,673,795

1,940,188

Same store cash net operating income

882,885

898,909

931,255

Credit Strength.

We measure our credit strength both in terms of leverage ratios
and coverage ratios. The leverage ratios indicate how much of our balance sheet
capitalization is related to long-term debt. The coverage ratios indicate our
ability to service interest and fixed charges (interest, secured debt principal
amortization and preferred dividends). We expect to maintain capitalization
ratios and coverage ratios sufficient to maintain compliance with our debt
covenants. The coverage ratios are based on adjusted earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”) which is discussed in
further detail, and reconciled to net income, below in “Non-GAAP Financial
Measures.” Leverage ratios and coverage ratios are widely used by investors,
analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, investment
recommendations and rating of companies. The following table reflects the
recent historical trends for our credit strength measures for the periods
presented:


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Year
  Ended December 31,




Debt to book capitalization ratio

45%

48%

45%

Debt to undepreciated book capitalization ratio

41%

43%

40%

Debt to market capitalization ratio

33%

39%

29%

Adjusted interest coverage ratio

3.31x

3.23x

3.86x

Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio

2.58x

2.56x

3.06x

Concentration Risk

. We
evaluate our concentration risk in terms of investment mix, relationship mix
and geographic mix. Concentration risk is a valuable measure in understanding
what portion of our investments could be at risk if certain sectors were to
experience downturns. Investment mix measures the portion of our investments
that relate to our various property types. Relationship mix measures the
portion of our investments that relate to our top five relationships. 
Geographic mix measures the portion of our investments that relate to our top
five states (or international equivalents). The following table reflects our
recent historical trends of concentration risk by investment balance for the periods
presented:

December
  31,




Investment mix:

(1)

Seniors housing triple-net

52%

45%

46%

Seniors housing operating

28%

39%

36%

Medical facilities

20%

16%

18%

Relationship mix:

(1)

Sunrise Senior Living

(2)

6%

19%

18%

Genesis Healthcare

15%

12%

12%

Brookdale

6%

Revera

(2)

5%

5%

Benchmark Senior Living

5%

4%

4%

Belmont Village

5%

4%

Merrill Gardens

6%

Remaining customers

63%

56%

55%

Geographic mix:

(1)

California

9%

10%

10%

England

8%

9%

Texas

9%

7%

8%

New Jersey

9%

8%

8%

Canada

6%

Florida

7%

5%

Pennsylvania

5%

Remaining

61%

62%

59%

(1) Excludes our share of investments in unconsolidated
  entities. Entities in which the company has a joint venture partner are shown
  at 100% of the joint venture amount.

(2) Revera owns a controlling interest in Sunrise.

We evaluate our key performance
indicators in conjunction with current expectations to determine if historical
trends are indicative of future results. Our expected results may not be
achieved and actual results may differ materially from our expectations.
Factors that may cause actual results to differ from expected results are
described in more detail in “Item 1 — Business — Cautionary Statement Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item 1A — Risk Factors” and other sections of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management regularly monitors economic and other
factors to develop strategic and tactical plans designed to improve performance
and maximize our competitive position. Our ability to achieve our financial
objectives is dependent upon our ability to effectively execute these plans and
to appropriately respond to emerging economic and company-specific trends.
Please refer to “Item 1 — Business,” “Item 1A — Risk Factors” and “Item 7 — Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of these risk factors.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Corporate Governance

Maintaining
investor confidence and trust is important in today’s business environment. Our
Board of Directors and management are strongly committed to policies and
procedures that reflect the highest level of ethical business practices. Our
corporate governance guidelines provide the framework for our business
operations and emphasize our commitment to increase stockholder value while
meeting all applicable legal requirements. These guidelines meet the listing
standards adopted by the New York Stock Exchange and are available on the
Internet at www.hcreit.com/investor-relations/governance.  The information on
our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form
10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Sources and Uses
of Cash

Our
primary sources of cash include rent and interest receipts, resident fees and
services, borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility, public issuances
of debt and equity securities, proceeds from investment dispositions and
principal payments on loans receivable. Our primary uses of cash include
dividend distributions, debt service payments (including principal and
interest), real property investments (including acquisitions, capital
expenditures, construction advances and transaction costs), loan advances,
property operating expenses, and general and administrative expenses. These
sources and uses of cash are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows and are discussed in further detail below.  The following is a summary of
our sources and uses of cash flows (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December,

December,

December,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Beginning cash and cash equivalents

$

163,482

$

1,033,764

$

870,282

532%

$

158,780

$

(874,984)

-85%

$

(4,702)

-3%

Cash provided from (used in):

Operating activities

818,133

988,497

170,364

21%

1,138,670

150,173

15%

320,537

39%

Investing activities

(3,592,979)

(3,531,593)

61,386

-2%

(2,126,206)

1,405,387

-40%

1,466,773

-41%

Financing activities

3,645,128

1,667,670

(1,977,458)

-54%

1,303,172

(364,498)

-22%

(2,341,956)

-64%

Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash
  equivalents




n/a

(690)

(1,132)

n/a

(690)

n/a

Ending cash and cash equivalents

$

1,033,764

$

158,780

$

(874,984)

-85%

$

473,726

$

314,946

198%

$

(560,038)

-54%

Operating Activities

. The
change in net cash provided from operating activities is primarily attributable
to increases in NOI which is primarily due to acquisitions.  Please see
“Results of Operations” for further discussion.  For the years ended December
31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, cash flows from operations exceeded cash distributions
to stockholders.

Investing Activities

.  The changes
in net cash used in investing activities are primarily attributable to acquisitions,
real estate loans receivable and investments in unconsolidated entities which
are summarized above in “Key Transactions in 2014.”  Please refer to Notes 3, 6
and 7 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information.  The
following is a summary of non-acquisition capital improvements (dollars in
thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

New development

$

286,410

$

247,560

$

(38,850)

-14%

$

197,881

$

(49,679)

-20%

$

(88,529)

-31%

Recurring capital expenditures, tenant improvements and lease
  commissions

45,175

60,984

15,809

35%

59,134

(1,850)

-3%

13,959

31%

Renovations, redevelopments and other capital improvements

90,275

74,848

(15,427)

-17%

73,646

(1,202)

-2%

(16,629)

-18%

Total

$

421,860

$

383,392

$

(38,468)

-9%

$

330,661

$

(52,731)

-14%

$

(91,199)

-22%

The change in new development is primarily due to the number
and size of construction projects on-going during the relevant periods. 
Renovations, redevelopments and other capital improvements include expenditures
to maximize property value, increase net operating income, maintain a
market-competitive position and/or achieve property stabilization.

Financing Activities

. The changes in net cash provided from financing activities are
primarily attributable to changes related to our long-term debt arrangements,
the issuance/redemptions of common and preferred stock, and dividend payments
which are summarized above in “Key Transactions in 2014.”  Please refer to
Notes 9, 10 and 13 of our consolidated financial statements for additional
information.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

At December 31, 2014,
we had investments in unconsolidated entities with our ownership ranging from
10% to 50%. Please see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.  We use financial derivative instruments to hedge
interest rate exposure. Please see Note 11 to our consolidated financial
statements for additional information.  At December 31, 2014, we had eight outstanding
letter of credit obligations. Please see Note 12 to our consolidated financial
statements for additional information.

Contractual
Obligations

The
following table summarizes our payment requirements under contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2014 (in thousands):

Payments
  Due by Period

Contractual Obligations

Total


2016-2017

2018-2019

Thereafter

Unsecured revolving credit facility

(1)

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

Senior unsecured notes and term credit facilities:

(2)

U.S. Dollar senior unsecured notes

5,465,965

-

1,150,000

1,050,000

3,265,965

Pounds Sterling senior unsecured notes

(3)

1,635,690

-

-

-

1,635,690

U.S. Dollar term credit facility

500,000

-

-

500,000

-

Canadian Dollar term credit facility

(3)

215,499

-

-

215,499

-

Secured debt:

(2,3)

Consolidated

2,941,765

399,813

770,271

806,956

964,725

Unconsolidated

622,220

206,281

176,558

81,073

158,308

Contractual interest obligations:

(4)

Unsecured revolving credit facility

-

-

-

-

-

Senior unsecured notes and term loans

(3)

3,560,409

338,290

638,105

533,104

2,050,909

Consolidated secured debt

(3)

754,363

140,101

218,789

127,354

268,119

Unconsolidated secured debt

(3)

98,668

27,869

29,373

16,385

25,041

Capital lease obligations

(5)

111,726

13,157

9,464

9,012

80,093

Operating lease obligations

(5)

916,404

15,078

30,370

30,457

840,499

Purchase obligations

(5)

308,492

140,150

151,697

6,792

9,853

Other long-term liabilities

(6)

367,128

361,475

2,950

2,703

-

Total contractual obligations

$

17,498,329

$

1,642,214

$

3,177,577

$

3,379,335

$

9,299,202

(1) Relates to our $2,500,000,000 unsecured revolving credit
  facility. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional
  information.

(2) Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not reflect
  unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected
  on the balance sheet.

(3) Based on foreign currency exchange rates in effect as of
  balance sheet date.

(4) Based on variable interest rates in effect as of balance
  sheet date.

(5) See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for
  additional information.

(6) Primarily relates to an unfunded commitment for a secured
  bridge facility with one of our operators, which is discussed in Note 12 to
  our consolidated financial statements, and our Supplemental Executive
  Retirement Plan, which is discussed in Note 19 to the consolidated financial
  statements.

Capital Structure

Please
refer to “Credit Strength” above for a discussion of our leverage and coverage
ratio trends.  Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and
events of default. Certain agreements require us to maintain certain financial
ratios and minimum net worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur
indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. As of December
31, 2014, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt
agreements. Please refer to the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures”
for further discussion. None of our debt agreements contain provisions for
acceleration which could be triggered by our debt ratings. However, under our
primary unsecured credit facility, the ratings on our senior unsecured notes
are used to determine the fees and interest charged. A summary of certain
covenants and our results as of and for the year ended December 31, 2014 is as
follows:


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Per
  Agreement

Covenant

Primary
  Unsecured Credit Facility

Senior
  Unsecured Notes

Actual
  At December 31, 2014

Total Indebtedness to Book Capitalization Ratio maximum:

60%

n/a

45%

Secured Indebtedness to Total Assets Ratio maximum:

30%

40%

12%

Total Indebtedness to Total Assets maximum:

n/a

60%

43%

Unsecured Debt to Unencumbered Assets maximum:

60%

n/a

38%

Adjusted Interest Coverage Ratio minimum:

n/a

1.50x

3.86x

Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage minimum:

1.50x

n/a

3.06x

We plan to manage the
company to maintain compliance with our debt covenants and with a capital
structure consistent with our current profile. Any downgrades in terms of
ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a material adverse
impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a
material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity
and/or financial condition.

On
May 4, 2012, we filed an open-ended automatic or “universal” shelf
registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering an
indeterminate amount of future offerings of debt securities, common stock,
preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants and units. As of January 31, 2015,
we had an effective registration statement on file in connection with our
enhanced dividend reinvestment plan under which we may issue up to 10,000,000
shares of common stock. As of January 31, 2015, 3,016,824  shares of common
stock remained available for issuance under this registration statement. We
have entered into separate Equity Distribution Agreements with each of UBS
Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Credit
Agricole Securities (USA) Inc. relating to the offer and sale from time to time
of up to $630,015,000 aggregate amount of our common stock (“Equity Shelf
Program”). As of January 31, 2015, we had $457,112,000 of remaining capacity
under the Equity Shelf Program. Depending upon market conditions, we anticipate
issuing securities under our registration statements to invest in additional
properties and to repay borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility.

Results of Operations

Summary

Our
primary sources of revenue include rent, resident fees and services, and
interest income. Our primary expenses include interest expense, depreciation
and amortization, property operating expenses, transaction costs and general
and administrative expenses. These revenues and expenses are reflected in our
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income and are discussed in further
detail below. The following is a summary of our results of operations (dollars
in thousands, except per share amounts):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



Amount

%


Amount

%

Amount

%

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

221,884

$

78,714

$

(143,170)

-65%

$

446,745

$

368,031

468%

$

224,861

101%

Funds from operations

697,557

924,884

227,327

33%

1,178,330

253,446

27%

480,773

69%

Adjusted EBITDA

1,264,091

1,503,715

239,624

19%

1,877,992

374,277

25%

613,901

49%

Net operating income from continuing operations

1,237,055

1,673,795

436,740

35%

1,940,188

266,393

16%

703,133

57%

Same store cash NOI

882,885

898,909

16,024

2%

931,255

32,346

4%

48,370

5%

Per share data (fully diluted):

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

0.98

$

0.28

$

(0.70)

-71%

$

1.45

$

1.17

418%

$

0.47

48%

Funds from operations

3.09

3.32

0.23

7%

3.83

0.51

15%

0.74

24%

Adjusted interest coverage ratio

3.31x

3.19x

-0.12x

-4%

3.86x

0.67x

21%

0.55x

17%

Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio

2.58x

2.52x

-0.06x

-2%

3.06x

0.54x

21%

0.48x

19%

The following table represents the changes in outstanding
common stock for the period from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2014 (in
thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2012

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2014

Totals

Beginning balance

192,275

260,374

289,564

192,275

Public offerings

64,400

23,000

33,925

121,325

Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

2,136

3,430

4,123

9,689

Senior note conversions

1,040



2,287

Preferred stock conversions

-




Issuances in acquisitions of noncontrolling interests

-

1,109

-

1,109

Option exercises




1,053

Other, net





Ending balance

260,374

289,564

328,790

328,790

Average number of shares outstanding:

Basic

224,343

276,929

306,272

Diluted

225,953

278,761

307,747

During the past three years, inflation
has not significantly affected our earnings because of the moderate inflation
rate. Additionally, our earnings are primarily long-term investments with
predictable rates of return. These investments are mainly financed with a
combination of equity, senior unsecured notes, secured debt and borrowings
under our primary unsecured credit facility. During inflationary periods, which
generally are accompanied by rising interest rates, our ability to grow may be
adversely affected because the yield on new investments may increase at a
slower rate than new borrowing costs. Presuming the current inflation rate
remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not increase significantly, we
believe that inflation will not impact the availability of equity and debt
financing for us.

We evaluate our business and make
resource allocations on our three business segments: seniors housing
triple-net, seniors housing operating and medical facilities. The primary
performance measures for our properties are NOI and SSCNOI, which are discussed
below.  Please see Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.

Seniors
Housing Triple-net

The following is a summary of our NOI for the seniors housing
triple-net segment (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

SSCNOI

(1)

$

589,912

$

598,235

$

8,323

1%

$

618,672

$

20,437

3%

$

28,760

5%

Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties

(1)

34,176

33,745

(431)

-1%

53,133

19,388

57%

18,957

55%

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(2)

170,923

262,641

91,718

54%

355,329

92,688

35%

184,406

108%

NOI

$

795,011

$

894,621

$

99,610

13%

$

1,027,134

$

132,513

15%

$

232,123

29%

(1) Change is due to increases in cash and non-cash NOI
  (described below) related to 453 same store properties.

(2) Change is primarily due to the acquisition of 195
  properties, the conversion of 13 construction projects into
  revenue-generating properties subsequent to January 1, 2012 and the
  transition of 38 properties from our seniors housing operating segment on
  September 1, 2013.

The following is a summary of our results of operations for
the seniors housing triple-net segment (dollars in thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Rental income

$

762,968

$

866,138

$

103,170

14%

$

992,638

$

126,500

15%

$

229,670

30%

Interest income

30,654

28,214

(2,440)

-8%

32,255

4,041

14%

1,601

5%

Other income

2,471

1,504

(967)

-39%

2,973

1,469

98%


20%

796,093

895,856

99,763

13%

1,027,866

132,010

15%

231,773

29%

Property operating expenses

1,082

1,235


14%


(503)

-41%

(350)

-32%

Net operating income from continuing operations (NOI)

795,011

894,621

99,610

13%

1,027,134

131,507

15%

232,123

29%

Other expenses:

Interest expense

1,745

23,322

21,577

1237%

38,460

15,138

65%

36,715

2104%

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net


4,877

4,781

4980%

(1,770)

(6,647)

-136%

(1,866)

-1944%

Depreciation and amortization

223,921

249,913

25,992

12%

273,296

23,383

9%

49,375

22%

Transaction costs

35,705

24,426

(11,279)

-32%

45,146

20,720

85%

9,441

26%

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

2,405


(2,365)

-98%



145%

(2,307)

-96%

Provision for loan losses

27,008

2,110

(24,898)

-92%

-

(2,110)

-100%

(27,008)

-100%

Other expenses

-

-

-

n/a

8,825

8,825

n/a

8,825

n/a

290,880

304,688

13,808

5%

364,055

59,367

19%

73,175

25%

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and income
  (loss) from unconsolidated entities

504,131

589,933

85,802

17%

663,079

73,146

12%

158,948

32%

Income tax benefit (expense)

(2,852)

(1,817)

1,035

-36%

6,141

7,958

-438%

8,993

-315%

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

(33)

5,035

5,068

n/a

5,423


8%

5,456

-16533%

Income from continuing operations

501,246

593,151

91,905

18%

674,643

81,492

14%

173,397

35%

Discontinued operations:

Gain (loss) on sales of properties, net

112,309

56,625

(55,684)

-50%

6,411

(50,214)

-89%

(105,898)

-94%

Impairment of assets

(20,612)

-

20,612

-100%

-

-

n/a

20,612

-100%

Income from discontinued operations, net

38,356

1,117

(37,239)

-97%


(393)

-35%

(37,632)

-98%

Discontinued operations, net

130,053

57,742

(72,311)

-56%

7,135

(50,607)

-88%

(122,918)

-95%

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

-

-

-

n/a

146,205

146,205

n/a

146,205

n/a

Net income

631,299

650,893

19,594

3%

827,983

177,090

27%

196,684

31%

Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests


1,558

1,047

205%

1,874


20%

1,363

267%

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

630,788

$

649,335

$

18,547

3%

$

826,109

$

176,774

27%

$

195,321

31%

The
increase in rental income is primarily attributable to the acquisitions of new
properties, the transition of 38 properties from our seniors housing operating
segment and the conversion of newly constructed seniors housing triple-net properties
from which we receive rent. Certain of our leases contain annual rental
escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index and/or
changes in the gross operating revenues of the tenant’s properties.  These
escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental
income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the
period.  If gross operating revenues at our facilities and/or the Consumer
Price Index do not increase, a portion of our revenues may not continue to
increase.  Sales of real property would offset revenue increases and, to the
extent that they exceed new acquisitions, could result in decreased revenues. 
Our leases could renew above or below current rent rates, resulting in an
increase or decrease in rental income.  For the three months ended December 31,
2014, we had no lease renewals but we had 12 leases with rental rate increasers
ranging from 0.14% to 0.33% in our seniors housing triple-net portfolio.  The
increase in interest income is attributable to investments in new loans and
draws on existing loans in the current year (see Note 6 to our consolidated
financial statements for additional information).

During
the year ended December 31, 2014, we completed four seniors housing triple-net
construction projects representing $71,569,000 or $185,896 per bed/unit plus
expansion projects totaling $18,053,000. The following is a summary of seniors
housing triple-net construction projects pending as of December 31, 2014
(dollars in thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Location

Units/Beds

Commitment

Balance

Est.
  Completion

Upper Providence, PA


$

29,030

$

22,718

2Q15

Mahwah, NJ


28,259

16,208

2Q15

Haddonfield, NJ


18,815

11,323

2Q15

Derby, England


11,501

6,885

2Q15

Edmond, OK


24,500

3,007

1Q16

Carrollton, TX


18,900

3,063

1Q16

Bracknell, England


15,671

6,281

2Q16

Piscataway, NJ


30,600

15,067

4Q15

Frederick, MD


19,000

11,030

4Q15

Raleigh, NC


93,000

17,827

4Q16

Total

1,107

$

289,276

$

113,409

Total interest expense represents secured debt interest expense and interest
expense on capital lease obligations offset by interest allocated to
discontinued operations.  The change in secured debt interest expense is due to
the net effect and timing of assumptions, segment transitions, extinguishments
and principal amortizations. The following is a summary of our seniors housing
triple-net secured debt principal activity (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2012

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2014

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Beginning balance

$

259,000

5.105%

$

218,741

5.393%

$

587,136

5.394%

Debt transitioned

-

0.000%

367,997

5.298%

-

0.000%

Debt issued

9,387

4.080%

13,800

5.480%

-

0.000%

Debt assumed

83,002

5.304%

9,578

5.582%

120,352

5.404%

Debt extinguished

(128,818)

4.743%

(16,482)

3.304%

(22,970)

6.235%

Foreign currency

-

0.000%

-

0.000%

(2,180)

5.317%

Principal payments

(3,830)

5.556%

(6,498)

5.698%

(11,569)

5.564%

Ending balance

$

218,741

5.393%

$

587,136

5.394%

$

670,769

5.337%

Monthly averages

$

216,314

5.254%

$

339,129

5.394%

$

596,941

5.381%

The change in loss on debt extinguishment is
attributable to the volume of debt payoffs each year.  Derivative gains and
losses are related to certain foreign currency forward exchange contracts
related to properties acquired. Please refer to Note 11 to our consolidated
financial statements for further discussion.

Depreciation and amortization increased primarily as a
result of new property acquisitions and the conversions of newly constructed
properties. To the extent that we acquire or dispose of additional properties
in the future, our provision for depreciation and amortization will change
accordingly.

Transaction costs represent costs incurred with property
acquisitions (including due diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation
services, and termination of pre-existing relationships computed based on the
fair value of the assets acquired), lease termination fees and other similar
costs.

The increase in other expenses is primarily related to the
reversal of the indemnification asset recorded in connection with the Genesis
acquisition.  An income tax benefit was recorded in the same amount to reverse the
unrecognized tax benefits related to the transaction.  Please refer to Note 18
to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion.

Changes in gains on sales of properties are related to
the volume of property sales and the sales prices.  We recognized impairment
losses on certain held-for-sale properties in prior years as the fair value
less estimated costs to sell exceeded our carrying values. Please refer to Note
5 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. The following
illustrates the reclassification impact as a result of classifying the
properties sold prior to or held for sale at December 31, 2014 as discontinued
operations for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Year
  Ended December 31,




Rental income

$

71,044

$

8,987

$


Expenses:

Interest expense

13,723

2,566


Property operating expenses


-

-

Provision for depreciation

18,750

5,304

-

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

$

38,356

$

1,117

$


During the year ended December 31, 2012, we wrote off one loan related to an
entrance fee community.  During the year ended December 31, 2013, we wrote off one
loan related to an active adult community.  During the year ended December 31,
2014, we did not record a provision for loan loss or have any loan write-offs. 
The provision for loan losses is related to our critical accounting estimate
for the allowance for loan losses and is discussed in “Critical Accounting
Policies” and Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements.

A
portion of our seniors housing triple-net properties were formed through
partnerships. Income or loss from unconsolidated entities represents our share
of net income or losses from partnerships where we are the noncontrolling
partner. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests represents our
partners’ share of net income relating to those partnerships where we are the
controlling partner.

Seniors Housing Operating

The following is a summary of our NOI for the seniors housing
operating segment (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

SSCNOI

(1)

$

140,968

$

146,624

$

5,656

4%

$

156,072

$

9,448

6%

$

15,104

11%

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(2)

91,056

381,539

290,483

319%

475,191

93,652

25%

384,135

422%

NOI

$

232,024

$

528,163

$

296,139

128%

$

631,263

$

103,100

20%

$

399,239

172%

(1) Due to increases in cash revenues (described below) related
  to 74 same store properties.

(2) Primarily due to the acquisition of 221 properties
  subsequent to January 1, 2012 and the transition of 38 properties to our
  seniors housing triple-net segment on September 1, 2013.

The following is a summary of our results of
operations for the seniors housing operating segment (dollars in thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Resident fees and services

$

697,494

$

1,616,290

$

918,796

132%

$

1,892,237

$

275,947

17%

$

1,194,743

171%

Interest income

6,208


(5,451)

-88%

2,119

1,362

180%

(4,089)

-66%

Other income

-



n/a

3,215

2,860

806%

3,215

n/a

703,702

1,617,402

913,700

130%

1,897,571

280,169

17%

1,193,869

170%

Property operating expenses

471,678

1,089,239

617,561

131%

1,266,308

177,069

16%

794,630

168%

Net operating income from continuing operations (NOI)

232,024

528,163

296,139

128%

631,263

103,100

20%

399,239

172%

Other expenses:

Interest expense

67,524

92,148

24,624

36%

113,099

20,951

23%

45,575

67%

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

(1,921)

(407)

1,514

-79%



-168%

2,196

-114%

Depreciation and amortization

165,798

478,007

312,209

188%

418,199

(59,808)

-13%

252,401

152%

Transaction costs

12,756

107,066

94,310

739%

16,880

(90,186)

-84%

4,124

32%

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

(2,697)

(3,372)

(675)

25%


3,755

-111%

3,080

-114%

Other expenses

-

-

-

n/a

1,437

1,437

n/a

1,437

n/a

241,460

673,442

431,982

179%

550,273

(123,169)

-18%

308,813

128%

(Loss) income from continuing operations before income from
  unconsolidated entities

(9,436)

(145,279)

(135,843)

1440%

80,990

226,269

-156%

90,426

-958%

Income tax expense

(1,086)

(5,337)

(4,251)

391%

(3,047)

2,290

-43%

(1,961)

181%

(Loss) income from unconsolidated entities

(6,364)

(22,695)

(16,331)

257%

(38,204)

(15,509)

68%

(31,840)

500%

Net income (loss)

(16,886)

(173,311)

(156,425)

926%

39,739

213,050

-123%

56,625

-335%

Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests

(3,015)

(8,639)

(5,624)

187%

(2,335)

6,304

-73%


-23%

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

(13,871)

$

(164,672)

$

(150,801)

1087%

$

42,074

$

206,746

-126%

$

55,945

-403%

Fluctuations in revenues and property operating expenses are
primarily a result of acquisitions subsequent to January 1, 2012, partially
offset by the transition of 38 properties to seniors housing triple-net on
September 1, 2013.  Interest income for the years ended December 31, 2012 and
2013 relates to the Sunrise loan funded during the three months ended December
31, 2012 and acquired in January 2013 (please refer to Note 6 to our
consolidated financial statements for additional information).  The
fluctuations in depreciation and amortization are due to the net impact of
acquisitions and variations in amortization of short-lived intangible assets.  To
the extent that we acquire or dispose of additional properties in the future,
these amounts will change accordingly.  Losses from unconsolidated entities are
primarily attributable to depreciation and amortization of short-lived
intangible assets related to our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures
with Chartwell in 2012, Sunrise in 2013 and Senior Resource Group in 2014.

The following is a summary
of our seniors housing operating construction projects, excluding expansions,
pending as of December 31, 2014 (dollars in thousands):

Location

Units/Beds

Commitment

Balance

Est.
  Completion

Edgbaston, England


$

20,820

$

19,571

2Q15

Camberley, England


21,613

11,142

4Q15

Total


$

42,433

$

30,713

Interest expense represents secured debt interest expense as
well as interest expense related to our Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit
facility and Sterling-denominated senior unsecured notes. The increases in
interest expense are attributed primarily to the £550,000,000
Sterling-dominated senior unsecured notes issued in November 2013 and the
£500,000,000 Sterling-dominated senior unsecured notes issued in November 2014.
Please refer to Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional
information.

The following is a summary of our seniors housing
operating property secured debt principal activity (dollars in thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2012

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2014

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Beginning balance

$

1,318,599

4.665%

$

1,369,526

4.874%

$

1,714,714

4.622%

Debt issued

148,031

4.220%

75,408

4.891%

109,503

3.374%

Debt assumed

115,371

5.512%

1,228,706

4.063%

18,484

4.359%

Debt extinguished

(193,962)

4.395%

(548,876)

3.597%

(114,793)

3.626%

Debt transitioned

-

0.000%

(367,997)

5.298%

-

0.000%

Foreign currency


5.624%

(10,361)

4.013%

(39,379)

3.727%

Principal payments

(18,700)

4.850%

(31,692)

4.643%

(33,998)

4.296%

Ending balance

$

1,369,526

4.874%

$

1,714,714

4.622%

$

1,654,531

4.422%

Monthly averages

$

1,366,758

4.866%

$

1,723,122

4.820%

$

1,657,416

4.515%

The fluctuations in gains/losses on
debt extinguishments is primarily attributable the volume of extinguishments
and terms of the related secured debt.  Derivative gains relate primarily to
foreign currency forward exchange contracts entered into in conjunction with
international investments made during the respective years.  Please refer to
Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion.

Transaction costs represent costs
incurred with property acquisitions (including due diligence costs, fees for
legal and valuation services, and termination of pre-existing relationships
computed based on the fair value of the assets acquired), lease termination
fees and other similar costs.  The change in transaction costs from year to
year is primarily a function of investment volume.  The majority of our seniors
housing operating properties are formed through partnership interests.  Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share
of net income or loss related to those partnerships where we are the
controlling partner.

Medical Facilities

The following is a summary of our NOI for the medical
facilities segment (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

SSCNOI

(1)

$

152,005

$

154,050

$

2,045

1%

$

156,511

$

2,461

2%

$

4,506

3%

Non-cash NOI attributable to same store properties

(1)

5,720

5,248

(472)

-8%

3,290

(1,958)

-37%

(2,430)

-42%

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(2)

51,383

91,417

40,034

78%

121,313

29,896

33%

69,930

136%

NOI

$

209,108

$

250,715

$

41,607

20%

$

281,114

$

30,399

12%

$

72,006

34%

(1) Due to increases in cash and non-cash revenues (described
  below) related to 138 same store properties.

(2) Primarily due to the acquisition of 74 properties and
  conversions of construction projects into 19 revenue-generating properties
  subsequent to January 1, 2012.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

The following is a
summary of our results of operations for the medical facilities segment
(dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Rental income

$

300,246

$

361,451

$

61,205

20%

$

413,129

$

51,678

14%

$

112,883

38%

Interest income

2,203

3,692

1,489

68%

3,293

(399)

-11%

1,090

49%

Other income

1,888

1,911


1%

1,010

(901)

-47%

(878)

-47%

304,337

367,054

62,717

21%

417,432

50,378

14%

113,095

37%

Property operating expenses

95,229

116,339

21,110

22%

136,318

19,979

17%

41,089

43%

Net operating income from continuing operations (NOI)

209,108

250,715

41,607

20%

281,114

30,399

12%

72,006

34%

Other expenses:

Interest expense

28,878

36,823

7,945

28%

32,904

(3,919)

-11%

4,026

14%

Depreciation and amortization

116,501

137,880

21,379

18%

152,635

14,755

11%

36,134

31%

Transaction costs

13,148

1,909

(11,239)

-85%

7,512

5,603

294%

(5,636)

-43%

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

(483)

-


-100%



n/a


n/a

158,044

176,612

18,568

12%

193,456

16,844

10%

35,412

22%

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and income
  (loss)  from unconsolidated entities

51,064

74,103

23,039

45%

87,658

13,555

18%

36,594

72%

Income tax expense

(2,381)

(270)

2,111

-89%

(1,827)

(1,557)

577%


-23%

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

8,879

9,473


7%

5,355

(4,118)

-43%

(3,524)

-40%

Income from continuing operations

57,562

83,306

25,744

45%

91,186

7,880

9%

33,624

58%

Discontinued operations:

Gain (loss) on sales of properties, net

(11,759)

(7,487)

4,272

-36%

-

7,487

-100%

11,759

-100%

Impairment of assets

(8,676)

-

8,676

-100%

-

-

n/a

8,676

-100%

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

4,440

1,458

(2,982)

-67%

-

(1,458)

-100%

(4,440)

-100%

Discontinued operations, net

(15,995)

(6,029)

9,966

-62%

-

6,029

-100%

15,995

-100%

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

-

-

-

n/a



n/a


n/a

Net income (loss)

41,567

77,277

35,710

86%

92,092

14,815

19%

50,525

122%

Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests




248%



96%


583%

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

41,478

$

76,967

$

35,489

86%

$

91,484

$

14,517

19%

$

50,006

121%

The
increase in rental income is primarily attributable to the acquisitions of new
properties and the conversion of newly constructed medical facility properties
from which we receive rent. Certain of our leases contain annual rental
escalators that are contingent upon changes in the Consumer Price Index.  These
escalators are not fixed, so no straight-line rent is recorded; however, rental
income is recorded based on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period. 
If the Consumer Price Index does not increase, a portion of our revenues may
not continue to increase.  Sales of real property would offset revenue
increases and, to the extent that they exceed new acquisitions, could result in
decreased revenues.  Our leases could renew above or below current rent rates,
resulting in an increase or decrease in rental income.

For
the three months ended December 31, 2014, our consolidated medical office
building portfolio signed 72,159 square feet of new leases and 251,399 square
feet of renewals.  The weighted-average term of these leases was six
years, with a rate of $26.25 per square foot and tenant improvement and lease
commission costs of $21.23 per square foot.  Substantially all of these
leases during the referenced quarter contain an annual fixed or contingent
escalation rent structure ranging from the change in CPI to 4%.

During
the year ended December 31, 2014, we completed seven medical office building
construction projects representing $127,290,000 or $243 per square foot. The
following is a summary of medical office building construction projects pending
as of December 31, 2014 (dollars in thousands):


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Location

Square
  Feet

Commitment

Balance

Est.
  Completion

Houston, TX

51,057

$

17,600

$

12,801

1Q15

Bel Air, MD

99,184

26,386

2,391

1Q16

Total

150,241

$

43,986

$

15,192

Total interest expense represents secured debt interest expense offset by
interest allocated to discontinued operations. The change in secured debt
interest expense is primarily due to the net effect and timing of assumptions,
extinguishments and principal amortizations. The following is a summary of our
medical facility secured debt principal activity (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2012

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2014

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Beginning balance

$

520,066

5.981%

$

713,720

5.950%

$

700,427

5.999%

Debt assumed

246,371

5.888%

52,574

6.126%

66,113

3.670%

Debt extinguished

(37,622)

5.858%

(49,017)

5.357%

(141,796)

5.567%

Principal payments

(15,095)

6.180%

(16,850)

6.193%

(15,476)

5.797%

Ending balance

$

713,720

5.950%

$

700,427

5.999%

$

609,268

5.838%

Monthly averages

$

669,753

5.952%

$

708,107

5.956%

$

626,797

5.928%

The
increases in property operating expenses and depreciation and amortization are
primarily attributable to acquisitions and construction conversions of new
medical facilities for which we incur certain property operating expenses
offset by discontinued operations.

Transaction
costs represent costs incurred with property acquisitions (including due
diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation services, and termination of
pre-existing relationships computed based on the fair value of the assets
acquired), lease termination fees and other similar costs.  The fluctuations in
transaction costs are primarily due to acquisition volume fluctuations in the
relevant years.

Income
from unconsolidated entities represents our share of net income or losses
related to our joint venture investment with Forest City Enterprises and
certain unconsolidated property investments related to our strategic joint
venture relationship with a national medical office building company. The
decrease is primarily attributable to lower occupancy in the current year.

Changes
in gains/losses on sales of properties are related to

volume of property sales and the sales prices

.  We recognized impairment losses on certain held for sale
properties in prior years as the fair value less estimated costs to sell
exceeded our carrying values.  Please refer to Note 5 to our consolidated
financial statements for further discussion. The following illustrates the
reclassification impact as a result of classifying the properties sold prior to
or held for sale at December 31, 2014 as discontinued operations for the
periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,



Rental income

$

25,334

$

9,390

Expenses:

Interest expense

8,013

1,681

Property operating expenses

4,267

3,396

Provision for depreciation

8,614

2,855

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

$

4,440

$

1,458

A portion of our medical
facility properties were formed through partnerships. Net income attributable
to noncontrolling interests represents our partners’ share of net income or
loss relating to those partnerships where we are the controlling partner.

Non-Segment/Corporate


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

The
following is a summary of our results of operations for the
non-segment/corporate activities (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Revenues:

Other income

$


$


$

(616)

-68%

$


$


129%

$

(235)

-26%

Expenses:

Interest expense

263,418

306,067

42,649

16%

296,576

(9,491)

-3%

33,158

13%

General and administrative

97,341

108,318

10,977

11%

142,943

34,625

32%

45,602

47%

Loss (gain) on extinguishments of debt, net

-

2,423

2,423

n/a

8,672

6,249

258%

8,672

n/a

360,759

416,808

56,049

16%

448,191

31,383

8%

87,432

24%

Loss from continuing operations before income taxes

(359,847)

(416,512)

(56,665)

16%

(447,514)

(31,002)

7%

(87,667)

24%

Income tax expense

(1,293)

(67)

1,226

-95%

-


-100%

1,293

-100%

Net loss

(361,140)

(416,579)

(55,439)

15%

(447,514)

(30,935)

7%

(86,374)

24%

Preferred stock dividends

69,129

66,336

(2,793)

-4%

65,408

(928)

-1%

(3,721)

-5%

Preferred stock redemption charge

6,242

-

(6,242)

-100%

-

-

n/a

(6,242)

-100%

Net loss attributable to common stockholders

$

(436,511)

$

(482,915)

$

(46,404)

11%

$

(512,922)

$

(30,007)

6%

$

(76,411)

18%

Other income primarily represents
income from non-real estate activities such as interest earned on temporary
investments of cash reserves.  The following is a summary of our
non-segment/corporate interest expense (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Year
  Ended

One
  Year Change

Two
  Year Change

December
  31,

December
  31,

December
  31,



$

%


$

%

$

%

Senior unsecured notes

$

249,564

$

279,617

$

30,053

12%

$

280,037

$


0%

$

30,473

12%

Secured debt



(62)

-11%


(35)

-7%

(97)

-17%

Primary unsecured credit facility

11,769

15,498

3,729

32%

8,914

(6,584)

-42%

(2,855)

-24%

Capitalized interest

(9,777)

(6,700)

3,077

-31%

(7,150)

(450)

7%

2,627

-27%

Interest SWAP savings

(96)

(14)


-85%

(14)

(0)

3%


-85%

Loan expense

11,401

17,171

5,770

51%

14,329

(2,842)

-17%

2,928

26%

Totals

$

263,418

$

306,067

$

42,649

16%

$

296,576

$

(9,491)

-3%

$

33,158

13%

The
change in interest expense on senior unsecured notes is due to the net effect of
issuances and extinguishments, excluding our Sterling-denominated senior
unsecured notes, both of which are in our seniors housing operating segment. 
Please refer to Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional
information.  We capitalize certain interest costs associated with funds used for
the construction of properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is
based upon the balances outstanding during the construction period using the
rate of interest that approximates our cost of financing. Our interest expense
is reduced by the amount capitalized.  The change in capitalized interest is
due to both changes in construction fundings and in our weighted-average cost
of financing.  Please see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for
a discussion of our interest rate swap agreements and their impact on interest
expense.  Loan expense represents the amortization of deferred loan costs
incurred in connection with the issuance and amendments of debt. Loan expense changes
are due to amortization of charges for costs incurred in connection with senior
unsecured note issuances.  The change in interest expense on our primary unsecured
credit facility is due primarily to the net effect and timing of draws,
paydowns and variable interest rate changes.  Please refer to Note 9 of our
consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our
primary unsecured credit facility.

General and administrative expenses
as a percentage of consolidated revenues (including revenues from discontinued
operations)


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013
and 2012 were 4.27%, 3.74% and 5.12%, respectively.  The increase in general
and administrative expenses is primarily related to costs associated with our
initiatives to attract and retain appropriate personnel to achieve our business
objectives and $19,688,000 of CEO transition costs.  The changes in percent of
revenue are primarily related to the increasing revenue base as a result of our
acquisitions.  The loss on extinguishment of debt is due to the refinancing of
our primary unsecured credit facility and the redemption of convertible senior notes. 
Please see Notes 9 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements for
additional information.  The changes in preferred stock dividends and
redemption charge are primarily attributable to the net effect of issuances,
redemptions and conversions.  Please see Note 13 to our consolidated financial
statements for additional information.

Other

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

We
believe that net income, as defined by U.S. GAAP, is the most appropriate
earnings measurement. However, we consider FFO to be a useful supplemental
measure of our operating performance. Historical cost accounting for real
estate assets in accordance with U.S. GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of
real estate assets diminishes predictably over time as evidenced by the
provision for depreciation. However, since real estate values have historically
risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors and analysts
have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies
that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient. In response, the
National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) created FFO as
a supplemental measure of operating performance for REITs that excludes
historical cost depreciation from net income. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, means
net income attributable to common stockholders, computed in accordance with
U.S. GAAP, excluding gains (or losses) from sales of real estate and impairment
of depreciable assets, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments
for unconsolidated entities and noncontrolling interests.

Net operating income
from continuing operations (“NOI”) is used to evaluate the operating
performance of our properties. We define NOI as total revenues, including
tenant reimbursements, less property operating expenses.  Property operating
expenses represent costs associated with managing, maintaining and servicing
tenants for our seniors housing operating and medical facility properties. 
These expenses include, but are not limited to, property-related payroll and
benefits, property management fees, marketing, housekeeping, food service,
maintenance, utilities, property taxes and insurance.  General and
administrative expenses represent costs unrelated to property operations or
transaction costs.  These expenses include, but are not limited to, payroll and
benefits, professional services, office expenses and depreciation of corporate
fixed assets.  Same store cash NOI (“SSCNOI”) is used to evaluate the
cash-based operating performance of our properties under a consistent
population which eliminates changes in the composition of our portfolio.  As
used herein, same store is generally defined as those revenue-generating
properties in the portfolio for the full three year reporting period.  Any
properties acquired, developed, transitioned or classified in discontinued
operations during that period are excluded from the same store amounts.  We
believe NOI and SSCNOI provide investors relevant and useful information
because they measure the operating performance of our properties at the
property level on an unleveraged basis. We use NOI and SSCNOI to make decisions
about resource allocations and to assess the property level performance of our
properties.

EBITDA stands for
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We believe that
EBITDA, along with net income and cash flow provided from operating activities,
is an important supplemental measure because it provides additional information
to assess and evaluate the performance of our operations. We primarily utilize
EBITDA to measure our interest coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA divided
by total interest, and our fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents EBITDA
divided by fixed charges. Fixed charges include total interest, secured debt
principal amortization and preferred dividends.

A covenant in our primary
unsecured credit facility contains a financial ratio based on a definition of
EBITDA that is specific to that agreement. Failure to satisfy these covenants
could result in an event of default that could have a material adverse impact
on our cost and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material
adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or
financial condition. Due to the materiality of these debt agreements and the
financial covenants, we have disclosed Adjusted EBITDA, which represents EBITDA
as defined above and adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, provision
for loan losses and gain/loss on extinguishment of debt. We use Adjusted EBITDA
to measure our adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio, which represents Adjusted
EBITDA divided by fixed charges on a trailing twelve months basis. Fixed
charges include total interest (excluding capitalized interest and non-cash
interest expenses), secured debt principal amortization and preferred
dividends. Our covenant requires an adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio of at
least 1.50 times.

Other
than Adjusted EBITDA, our supplemental reporting measures and similarly
entitled financial measures are widely used by investors, equity and debt
analysts and rating agencies in the valuation, comparison, rating and
investment recommendations of companies. Management uses these financial
measures to facilitate internal and external comparisons to our historical
operating results and in making operating decisions. Additionally, these
measures are utilized by the Board of Directors to evaluate management.
Adjusted EBITDA is used solely to determine our compliance with a financial
covenant in our primary unsecured credit


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

facility and
is not being presented for use by investors for any other purpose. None of our
supplemental measures represent net income or cash flow provided from operating
activities as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should not be
considered as alternative measures of profitability or liquidity. Finally, the
supplemental measures, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly
entitled items reported by other real estate investment trusts or other
companies.

The table below reflects the
reconciliation of FFO to net income attributable to common stockholders, the
most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. The provisions
for depreciation and amortization include provisions for depreciation and
amortization from discontinued operations. Noncontrolling interest and
unconsolidated entity amounts represent adjustments to reflect our share of
depreciation and amortization.  Amounts are in thousands except for per share
data.

Year
  Ended December 31,

FFO Reconciliation:




Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

221,884

$

78,714

$

446,745

Depreciation and amortization

533,585

873,960

844,130

Impairment of assets

29,287

-

-

Loss (gain) on sales of properties

(100,549)

(49,138)

(153,522)

Noncontrolling interests

(21,058)

(36,304)

(37,852)

Unconsolidated entities

34,408

57,652

74,580

Funds from operations

$

697,557

$

924,884

$

1,174,081

Average common shares outstanding:

Basic

224,343

276,929

306,272

Diluted

225,953

278,761

307,747

Per share data:

Net income attributable to common stockholders

Basic

$

0.99

$

0.28

$

1.46

Diluted

0.98

0.28

1.45

Funds from operations

Basic

$

3.11

$

3.34

$

3.83

Diluted

3.09

3.32

3.82


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

The
table below reflects the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the
most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the periods presented. Interest
expense and the provisions for depreciation and amortization include
discontinued operations. Dollars are in thousands.

Year
  Ended December 31,

Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation:




Net income

$

294,840

$

138,280

$

512,300

Interest expense

383,300

462,606

481,196

Income tax expense (benefit)

7,612

7,491

(1,267)

Depreciation and amortization

533,585

873,960

844,130

Stock-based compensation expense

18,521

20,177

32,075

Provision for loan losses

27,008

2,110

-

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt

(775)

(909)

9,558

Adjusted EBITDA

$

1,264,091

$

1,503,715

$

1,877,992

Adjusted Interest Coverage Ratio:

Interest expense

$

383,300

$

462,606

$

481,196

Capitalized interest

9,777

6,700

7,150

Non-cash interest expense

(11,395)

(4,044)

(2,427)

Total interest

381,682

465,262

485,919

Adjusted EBITDA

$

1,264,091

$

1,503,715

$

1,877,992

Adjusted interest coverage ratio

3.31x

3.23x

3.86x

Adjusted Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio:

Interest expense

$

383,300

$

462,606

$

481,196

Capitalized interest

9,777

6,700

7,150

Non-cash interest expense

(11,395)

(4,044)

(2,427)

Secured debt principal payments

38,744

56,205

62,280

Preferred dividends

69,129

66,336

65,408

Total fixed charges

489,555

587,803

613,607

Adjusted EBITDA

$

1,264,091

$

1,503,715

$

1,877,992

Adjusted fixed charge coverage ratio

2.58x

2.56x

3.06x


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

The following tables
reflect the reconciliation of NOI and SSCNOI to net income attributable to
common stockholders, the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, for the
periods presented.  Amounts are in thousands.

Year
  Ended December 31,

NOI Reconciliation:




Total revenues:

Seniors housing triple-net

$

796,093

$

895,856

$

1,027,866

Seniors housing operating

703,702

1,617,402

1,897,571

Medical facilities

304,337

367,054

417,432

Non-segment/corporate




Total revenues

1,805,044

2,880,608

3,343,546

Property operating expenses:

Seniors housing triple-net

1,082

1,235


Seniors housing operating

471,678

1,089,239

1,266,308

Medical facilities

95,229

116,339

136,318

Total property operating expenses

567,989

1,206,813

1,403,358

Net operating income:

Seniors housing triple-net

795,011

894,621

1,027,134

Seniors housing operating

232,024

528,163

631,263

Medical facilities

209,108

250,715

281,114

Non-segment/corporate




Net operating income from continuing operations

$

1,237,055

$

1,673,795

$

1,940,188

Reconciling items:

Interest expense

(361,565)

(458,360)

(481,039)

Gain (loss) on derivatives, net

1,825

(4,470)

1,495

Depreciation and amortization

(506,220)

(865,800)

(844,130)

General and administrative

(97,341)

(108,318)

(142,943)

Transaction costs

(61,609)

(133,401)

(69,538)

Gain (loss) on extinguishment of debt, net



(9,558)

Other expenses

-

-

(10,262)

Provision for loan losses

(27,008)

(2,110)

-

Income tax benefit (expense)

(7,612)

(7,491)

1,267

Income (loss)  from unconsolidated entities

2,482

(8,187)

(27,426)

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

114,058

51,713

7,135

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

-

-

147,111

Preferred dividends

(69,129)

(66,336)

(65,408)

Preferred stock redemption charge

(6,242)

-

-

Loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests

2,415

6,770

(147)

(1,015,171)

(1,595,081)

(1,493,443)

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

$

221,884

$

78,714

$

446,745


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Year
  Ended December 31,

Same Store Cash NOI Reconciliation:




Net operating income from continuing operations:

Seniors housing triple-net

$

795,011

$

894,621

$

1,027,134

Seniors housing operating

232,024

528,163

631,263

Medical facilities

209,108

250,715

281,114

Total

1,236,143

1,673,499

1,939,511

Adjustments:

Seniors housing triple-net:

Non-cash NOI on same store properties

(34,176)

(33,747)

(53,136)

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(170,923)

(262,639)

(355,326)

Subtotal

(205,099)

(296,386)

(408,462)

Seniors housing operating:

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(91,056)

(381,539)

(475,191)

Subtotal

(91,056)

(381,539)

(475,191)

Medical facilities:

Non-cash NOI on same store properties

(5,720)

(5,248)

(3,290)

NOI attributable to non same store properties

(51,383)

(91,417)

(121,313)

Subtotal

(57,103)

(96,665)

(124,603)

Total

(353,258)

(774,590)

(1,008,256)

Same store cash net operating income:

Seniors housing triple-net

589,912

598,235

618,672

Seniors housing operating

140,968

146,624

156,072

Medical facilities

152,005

154,050

156,511

Total

$

882,885

$

898,909

$

931,255

Same Store Cash NOI Property
  Reconciliation:

Total properties

1,260

Acquisitions

(490)

Developments

(32)

Disposals/Held-for-sale

(21)

Segment transitions

(40)

Other

(1)

(12)

Same store properties


(1) Includes nine land parcels and three loans.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Critical Accounting Policies

Our consolidated financial
statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make
estimates and assumptions.  Management considers accounting estimates or
assumptions critical if:

·

the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the
levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain
matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change; and

·

the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition
or operating performance is material.

Management has discussed the
development and selection of its critical accounting policies with the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the
disclosure presented below relating to them.  Management believes the current
assumptions and other considerations used to estimate amounts reflected in our
consolidated financial statements are appropriate and are not reasonably likely
to change in the future.  However, since these estimates require assumptions to
be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made, they bear the
risk of change.  If actual experience differs from the assumptions and other
considerations used in estimating amounts reflected in our consolidated
financial statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and/or financial
condition.  Please refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial
statements for further information on significant accounting policies that
impact us. There were no material changes to these policies in 2014.

The following table presents
information about our critical accounting policies, as well as the material
assumptions used to develop each estimate:

Nature of Critical

Accounting Estimate

Assumptions/Approach

Used

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated
  financial statements include our accounts, the accounts of our wholly-owned
  subsidiaries and the accounts of joint venture entities in which we own a
  majority voting interest with the ability to control operations and where no
  substantive participating rights or substantive kick out rights have been
  granted to the noncontrolling interests.  In addition, we consolidate those
  entities deemed to be variable interest entities (VIEs) in which we are
  determined to be the primary beneficiary. All material intercompany
  transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

We
  make judgments about which entities are VIEs based on an assessment of
  whether (i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a
  controlling financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is
  insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional
  subordinated financial support. We

make
  judgments with respect to our level of influence or control of an entity and
  whether we are (or are not) the primary beneficiary of a VIE. Consideration
  of various factors includes, but is not limited to, our ability to direct the
  activities that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance,
  our form of ownership interest, our representation on the entity's governing
  body, the size and seniority of our investment, our ability and the rights of
  other investors to participate in policy making decisions, replace the
  manager and/or liquidate the entity, if applicable. Our ability to correctly
  assess our influence or control over an entity at inception of our
  involvement or on a continuous basis when determining the primary beneficiary
  of a VIE affects the presentation of these entities in our consolidated
  financial statements. If we perform a primary beneficiary analysis at a date
  other than at inception of the variable interest entity, our assumptions may
  be different and may result in the identification of a different primary
  beneficiary.

Income Taxes

As part of the
  process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant
  management judgment is required to evaluate our compliance with REIT
  requirements.

Our determinations
  are based on interpretation of tax laws, and our conclusions may have an
  impact on the income tax expense recognized. Adjustments to income tax
  expense may be required as a result of: (i) audits conducted by federal
  and state tax authorities, (ii) our ability to qualify as a REIT,
  (iii) the potential for built-in-gain recognized related to prior-tax-free
  acquisitions of C corporations and (iv) changes in tax laws. Adjustments
  required in any given period are included in income.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Nature of Critical

Accounting Estimate

Assumptions/Approach

Used

Business Combinations

Real property
  developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of
  construction period interest. The cost of real property acquired is allocated
  to net tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their respective
  fair values. Tangible assets primarily consist of land, buildings and
  improvements. The remaining purchase price is allocated among identifiable
  intangible assets primarily consisting of the above or below market component
  of in-place leases and the value of in-place leases. The total amount of
  other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to in-place lease
  values and customer relationship values based on management’s evaluation of
  the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease and the Company’s overall
  relationship with that respective tenant.

We make estimates
  as part of our allocation of the purchase price of acquisitions to the
  various components of the acquisition based upon the relative fair value of
  each component. The most significant components of our allocations are
  typically the allocation of fair value to the buildings as-if-vacant, land
  and in-place leases. In the case of the fair value of buildings and the
  allocation of value to land and other intangibles, our estimates of the
  values of these components will affect the amount of depreciation and
  amortization we record over the estimated useful life of the property
  acquired or the remaining lease term. In the case of the value of in-place
  leases, we make our best estimates based on our evaluation of the specific
  characteristics of each tenant's lease. Factors considered include estimates
  of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods, market
  conditions and costs to execute similar leases. Our assumptions affect the
  amount of future revenue that we will recognize over the remaining lease term
  for the acquired in-place leases.

We compute
  depreciation and amortization on our properties using the straight-line
  method based on their estimated useful lives which range from 15 to
  40 years for buildings and five to 15 years for improvements. Amortization
  periods for intangibles are based on the remaining life of the lease.

Allowance for Loan Losses

We maintain an
  allowance for loan losses in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  The allowance for
  loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb potential
  losses in our loans receivable.  The determination of the allowance is based
  on a quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans.  If this evaluation
  indicates that there is a greater risk of loan charge-offs, additional
  allowances or placement on non-accrual status may be required.  A loan is
  impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that
  we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled according to the
  contractual terms of the original loan agreement.  Consistent with this
  definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired.  To the extent
  circumstances improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we will
  return these loans to full accrual status.

The determination
  of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of all outstanding loans,
  including general economic conditions and estimated collectability of loan
  payments and principal. We evaluate the collectability of our loans
  receivable based on a combination of factors, including, but not limited to,
  delinquency status, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the
  borrower and guarantors and value of the underlying property.

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments

The valuation of derivative instruments is accounted for in
  accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires companies to record derivatives at
  fair market value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.

The valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make
  estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. Fair
  values of our forward exchange contracts are estimated using pricing models
  that consider forward currency spot rates, forward trade rates and discount
  rates.  Fair values of our interest rate swaps are estimated by utilizing
  pricing models that consider forward yield curves, discount rates and
  counterparty credit risk. Such amounts and their recognition are subject to
  significant estimates which may change in the future.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Nature of Critical

Accounting Estimate

Assumptions/Approach

Used

Revenue Recognition

Revenue is recorded
  in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires that revenue be recognized after
  four basic criteria are met. These four criteria include persuasive evidence
  of an arrangement, the rendering of service, fixed and determinable income
  and reasonably assured collectability. If the collectability of revenue is
  determined incorrectly, the amount and timing of our reported revenue could
  be significantly affected. Interest income on loans is recognized as earned
  based upon the principal amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of
  collectability risk. Substantially all of our operating leases contain fixed
  and/or contingent escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual rental
  escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the initial
  lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income related
  to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based on
  the contractual cash rental payments due for the period.  We recognize
  resident fees and services, other than move-in fees, monthly as services are
  provided.  Lease agreements with residents generally have a term of one year
  and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days’ notice.

We evaluate the
  collectability of our revenues and related receivables on an on-going basis.
  We evaluate collectability based on assumptions and other considerations
  including, but not limited to, the certainty of payment, payment history, the
  financial strength of the investment’s underlying operations as measured by
  cash flows and payment coverages, the value of the underlying collateral and
  guaranties and current economic conditions.

If our evaluation
  indicates that collectability is not reasonably assured, we may place an
  investment on non-accrual or reserve against all or a portion of current
  income as an offset to revenue.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

We review our
  long-lived assets for potential impairment in accordance with U.S. GAAP. An
  impairment charge must be recognized when the carrying value of a long-lived
  asset is not recoverable.  The carrying value is not recoverable if it
  exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the
  use and eventual disposition of the asset.  If it is determined that a
  permanent impairment of a long-lived asset has occurred, the carrying value
  of the asset is reduced to its fair value and an impairment charge is
  recognized for the difference between the carrying value and the fair value.

The net book value of
  long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis to
  determine if there are indicators of impairment.  These indicators may
  include anticipated operating losses at the property level, the tenant’s
  inability to make rent payments, a decision to dispose of an asset before the
  end of its estimated useful life and changes in the market that may
  permanently reduce the value of the property.  If indicators of impairment
  exist, then the undiscounted future cash flows from the most likely use of
  the property are compared to the current net book value.  This analysis
  requires us to determine if indicators of impairment exist and to estimate
  the most likely stream of cash flows to be generated from the property during
  the period the property is expected to be held.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We are exposed to
various market risks, including the potential loss arising from adverse changes
in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We seek to mitigate the

underlying
foreign currency exposures with gains and losses on derivative contracts
hedging these exposures.

We seek to mitigate the
effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the terms of new
investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. We
may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to hedge interest
rate exposure. These decisions are principally based on our policy to match our
variable rate investments with comparable borrowings, but are also based on the
general trend in interest rates at the applicable dates and our perception of
the future volatility of interest rates. This section is a discussion of the
risks associated with potential fluctuations in interest rates and foreign
currency exchange rates. For additional information, see “Item 7 —
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Critical Accounting Policies” and Notes 11 and 16 to our
consolidated financial statements.

We historically borrow
on our primary unsecured credit facility to acquire, construct or make loans
relating to health care and seniors housing properties. Then, as market
conditions dictate, we will issue equity or long-term fixed rate debt to repay
the borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility.  We are subject to
risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that existing
indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of refinancing may not be
as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. The majority of our
borrowings were completed under indentures or contractual agreements that limit
the amount of indebtedness we may incur. Accordingly, in the event that we are
unable to raise additional equity or borrow money because of these limitations,
our ability to acquire additional properties may be limited.

A change in interest
rates will not affect the interest expense associated with our fixed rate debt.
Interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value of our fixed rate
debt. Changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of this fixed rate
debt could have an effect on our future cash flows and earnings, depending on
whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate debt, variable rate debt or
equity or repaid by the sale of assets. To illustrate the impact of changes in
the interest rate markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our fixed
rate debt instruments whereby we modeled the change in net present values
arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates to determine the
instruments’ change in fair value. The following table summarizes the analysis
performed as of the dates indicated (in thousands):

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Principal
  balance

Fair
  value change

Principal
  balance

Fair
  value change

Senior unsecured notes

$

7,817,154

$

(547,358)

$

7,421,707

$

(408,790)

Secured debt

2,673,480

(93,580)

2,787,236

(102,211)

Totals

$

10,490,634

$

(640,938)

$

10,208,943

$

(511,001)

Our variable rate debt, including our unsecured
line of credit arrangements, is reflected at fair value. At December 31, 2014,
we had $983,783,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. Assuming no
changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would result
in increased annual interest expense of $9,838,000. At December 31, 2013, we
had $1,089,362,000 outstanding related to our variable rate debt. Assuming no
changes in outstanding balances, a 1% increase in interest rates would have
resulted in increased annual interest expense of $10,894,000.

We are subject to currency fluctuations that may,
from time to time, affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Increases or decreases in the value of the Canadian Dollar or Pounds Sterling
relative to the U.S. Dollar impacts the amount of net income we earn from our
investments in Canada and the United Kingdom. Based solely on our results for
the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, if these exchange rates were to
increase or decrease by 100 basis points, our net income from these investments
would decrease or increase, as applicable, by less than $500,000 for the
twelve-month period.  We seek to mitigate these underlying foreign currency
exposures with non-U.S. denominated borrowings and gains and losses on
derivative contracts hedging these exposures.  If we increase our international
presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors
housing and health care properties outside the United States, we may also
decide to transact additional business or borrow funds in currencies other than
the U.S. Dollar, Canadian Dollars or Pounds Sterling. To illustrate the impact
of changes in foreign currency markets, we performed a sensitivity analysis on
our derivative portfolio whereby we modeled the change in net present values
arising from a hypothetical 1% increase in foreign currency exchange rates to
determine the instruments’ change in fair value.  The following table
summarizes the results of the analysis performed, excluding cross currency
hedge activity (dollars in thousands):

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Carrying
  value

Fair
  value change

Carrying
  value

Fair
  value change

Foreign currency exchange contracts

$

54,247

$

4,242

$

4,066

$

(2,964)

Debt designated as hedges

1,851,189

13,000

1,146,596

8,002

Totals

$

1,905,436

$

17,242

$

1,150,662

$

5,038


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and
Shareholders of Health Care REIT, Inc.

We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Health Care REIT, Inc. as of
December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of
comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2014. Our audits also included the financial
statement schedules listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. These financial
statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit also includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Health Care REIT, Inc. at
December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the consolidated results of its operations and
its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014,
in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation
to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 2
to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method for
reporting discontinued operations effective January 1, 2014.

We have also audited,
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), Health Care REIT, Inc.’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal
Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated
February 20, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/

Ernst & Young

LLP

Toledo

, Ohio

February 20, 2015


December
  31,

December
  31,



Assets

(In
  thousands)

Real estate investments:

Real property owned:

Land and land improvements

$

2,046,541

$

1,878,877

Buildings and improvements

21,799,313

20,625,515

Acquired lease intangibles

1,135,936

1,070,754

Real property held for sale, net of accumulated depreciation

323,818

18,502

Construction in progress

186,327

141,085

Gross real property owned

25,491,935

23,734,733

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization

(3,020,908)

(2,386,658)

Net real property owned

22,471,027

21,348,075

Real estate loans receivable

380,169

332,146

Net real estate investments

22,851,196

21,680,221

Other assets:

Investments in unconsolidated entities

744,151

479,629

Goodwill

68,321

68,321

Deferred loan expenses

69,282

70,875

Cash and cash equivalents

473,726

158,780

Restricted cash

79,697

72,821

Receivables and other assets

727,923

553,310

Total other assets

2,163,100

1,403,736

Total assets

$

25,014,296

$

23,083,957

Liabilities and equity

Liabilities:

Borrowings under primary unsecured credit facility

$

-

$

130,000

Senior unsecured notes

7,766,251

7,379,308

Secured debt

2,977,713

3,058,248

Capital lease obligations

84,049

84,458

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

626,825

640,573

Total liabilities

11,454,838

11,292,587

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

86,409

35,039

Equity:

Preferred stock

1,006,250

1,017,361

Common stock

328,835

289,461

Capital in excess of par value

14,740,712

12,418,520

Treasury stock

(35,241)

(21,263)

Cumulative net income

2,842,022

2,329,869

Cumulative dividends

(5,635,923)

(4,600,854)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

(77,009)

(24,531)

Other equity

5,507

6,020

Total Health Care REIT, Inc. stockholders’ equity

13,175,153

11,414,583

Noncontrolling interests

297,896

341,748

Total equity

13,473,049

11,756,331

Total liabilities and equity

$

25,014,296

$

23,083,957

See accompanying
notes


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Year
  Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Rental income

$

1,405,767

$

1,227,589

$

1,063,214

Resident fees and services

1,892,237

1,616,290

697,494

Interest income

37,667

32,663

39,065

Other income

7,875

4,066

5,271

Total revenues

3,343,546

2,880,608

1,805,044

Expenses:

Interest expense

481,039

458,360

361,565

Property operating expenses

1,403,358

1,206,813

567,989

Depreciation and amortization

844,130

865,800

506,220

General and administrative

142,943

108,318

97,341

Transaction costs

69,538

133,401

61,609

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

(1,495)

4,470

(1,825)

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

9,558

(909)

(775)

Provision for loan losses

-

2,110

27,008

Other expenses

10,262

-

-

Total expenses

2,959,333

2,778,363

1,619,132

Income from continuing operations before income taxes

and income from unconsolidated entities

384,213

102,245

185,912

Income tax (expense) benefit

1,267

(7,491)

(7,612)

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

(27,426)

(8,187)

2,482

Income from continuing operations

358,054

86,567

180,782

Discontinued operations:

Gain (loss) on sales of properties, net

6,411

49,138

100,549

Impairment of assets

-

-

(29,287)

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net


2,575

42,796

Discontinued operations, net

7,135

51,713

114,058

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

147,111

-

-

Net income

512,300

138,280

294,840

Less:  Preferred stock dividends

65,408

66,336

69,129

Less:  Preferred stock redemption charge

-

-

6,242

Less:  Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling
  interests

(1)


(6,770)

(2,415)

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

446,745

$

78,714

$

221,884

Average number of common shares outstanding:

Basic

306,272

276,929

224,343

Diluted

307,747

278,761

225,953

Earnings per share:

Basic:

Income from continuing operations

attributable to common stockholders

$

1.44

$

0.10

$

0.48

Discontinued operations, net

0.02

0.19

0.51

Net income attributable to common stockholders*

$

1.46

$

0.28

$

0.99

Diluted:

Income from continuing operations

attributable to common stockholders

$

1.43

$

0.10

$

0.48

Discontinued operations, net

0.02

0.19

0.50

Net income attributable to common stockholders*

$

1.45

$

0.28

$

0.98

*

Amounts may
not sum due to rounding

(1)

Includes amounts
attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests

See accompanying
notes


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

(In thousands, except per
share data)

Year
  Ended December 31,




Net income

$

512,300

$

138,280

$

294,840

Other comprehensive income (loss):

Unrecognized gain/(loss) on equity investments


(173)


Unrecognized gain/(loss) on cash flow hedges

4,409

1,898

1,604

Unrecognized actuarial gain/(loss)

(137)

1,522

(226)

Foreign currency translation gain/(loss)

(71,964)

(23,247)

(881)

Total other comprehensive income (loss)

(67,303)

(20,000)


Total comprehensive income

444,997

118,280

295,740

Total comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling
  interests

(1)

(14,678)

(13,267)

(2,415)

Total comprehensive income attributable to stockholders

$

430,319

$

105,013

$

293,325

(1) Includes amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling
  interests.

See accompanying notes


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(CONTINUED)

HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

(In thousands)

(in
  thousands)

Accumulated

Capital
  in

Other

Preferred

Common

Excess
  of

Treasury

Cumulative

Cumulative

Comprehensive

Other

Noncontrolling

Stock

Stock

Par
  Value

Stock

Net
  Income

Dividends

Income

Equity

Interests

Total

Balances at December 31, 2011

$

1,010,417

$

192,299

$

7,019,714

$

(13,535)

$

1,893,806

$

(2,972,129)

$

(11,928)

$

6,120

$

153,883

$

7,278,647

Comprehensive income:

Net income

297,255

(1,480)

295,775

Other comprehensive income:



Total comprehensive income

296,675

Net change in noncontrolling interests

(7,136)

73,315

66,179

Distributions to noncontrolling interests

Amounts related to issuance of common stock

from dividend reinvestment and stock

incentive plans, net of forfeitures

2,658

149,955

(4,340)

(2,534)

145,739

Net proceeds from sale of common stock

64,400

3,382,532

3,446,932

Equity component of convertible debt

1,039

2,236

3,275

Proceeds from issuance of preferred shares

287,500

(9,813)

277,687

Redemption of preferred stock

(275,000)

6,202

(6,242)

(275,040)

Option compensation expense

2,875

2,875

Cash dividends paid:

Common stock cash dividends

(653,321)

(653,321)

Preferred stock cash dividends

(69,129)

(69,129)

Balances at December 31, 2012

1,022,917

260,396

10,543,690

(17,875)

2,184,819

(3,694,579)

(11,028)

6,461

225,718

10,520,519

Comprehensive income:

Net income

145,050

(5,487)

139,563

Other comprehensive income:

(13,503)

(6,497)

(20,000)

Total comprehensive income

119,563

Net change in noncontrolling interests

1,109

23,815

128,014

152,938

Distributions to noncontrolling interests

Amounts related to issuance of common stock

from dividend reinvestment and stock

incentive plans, net of forfeitures

3,852

239,837

(3,388)

(1,555)

238,746

Net proceeds from sale of common stock

23,000

1,607,281

1,630,281

Equity component of convertible debt


(1,543)

(555)

Conversion of preferred stock

(5,556)


5,440

-

Option compensation expense

1,114

1,114

Cash dividends paid:

Common stock cash dividends

(839,939)

(839,939)

Preferred stock cash dividends

(66,336)

(66,336)

Balances at December 31, 2013

1,017,361

289,461

12,418,520

(21,263)

2,329,869

(4,600,854)

(24,531)

6,020

341,748

11,756,331

Comprehensive income:

Net income

512,153

(342)

511,811

Other comprehensive income:

(52,478)

(14,825)

(67,303)

Total comprehensive income

444,508

Net change in noncontrolling interests

(17,653)

(28,685)

(46,338)

Amounts related to issuance of common stock

from dividend reinvestment and stock

incentive plans, net of forfeitures

4,958

297,975

(13,978)

(1,425)

287,530

Net proceeds from sale of common stock

33,925

2,030,057

2,063,982

Equity component of convertible debt



1,193

Conversion of preferred stock

(11,111)


10,878

-

Option compensation expense



Cash dividends paid:

Common stock cash dividends

(969,661)

(969,661)

Preferred stock cash dividends

(65,408)

(65,408)

Balances at December 31, 2014

$

1,006,250

$

328,835

$

14,740,712

$

(35,241)

$

2,842,022

$

(5,635,923)

$

(77,009)

$

5,507

$

297,896

$

13,473,049

See accompanying notes


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

Year
  Ended December 31,

(In thousands)




Operating activities

Net income

$

512,300

$

138,280

$

294,840

Adjustments to reconcile net income to

net cash provided from (used in) operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

844,130

873,960

533,585

Other amortization expenses

6,971

8,097

15,185

Provision for loan losses

-

2,110

27,008

Impairment of assets

-

-

29,287

Stock-based compensation expense

32,075

20,177

18,521

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net

(1,495)

4,470

(1,825)

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

9,558

(909)

(775)

Loss (income) from unconsolidated entities

27,426

8,187

(2,482)

Rental income in excess of cash received

(74,552)

(46,068)

(32,362)

Amortization related to above (below) market leases, net




Loss (gain) on sales of properties, net

(153,522)

(49,138)

(100,549)

Distributions by unconsolidated entities

9,060

8,885

17,607

Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other liabilities

(48,381)

67,557

38,213

Decrease (increase) in receivables and other assets

(25,639)

(47,571)

(18,285)

Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities

1,138,670

988,497

818,133

Investing activities

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

(2,210,600)

(3,597,955)

(2,923,251)

Cash disbursed for capital improvements to existing properties

(132,780)

(135,832)

(135,450)

Cash disbursed for construction in progress

(197,881)

(247,560)

(286,410)

Capitalized interest

(7,150)

(6,700)

(9,777)

Investment in real estate loans receivable

(202,207)

(117,059)

(665,094)

Other investments, net of payments

(100,033)

(15,634)

25,425

Principal collected on real estate loans receivable

105,496

102,886

35,020

Contributions to unconsolidated entities

(353,496)

(99,769)

(227,735)

Distributions by unconsolidated entities

57,183

30,853

13,136

Proceeds from (payments on) derivatives

10,269

(6,803)

6,652

Decrease (increase) in restricted cash

(6,072)

79,957

(35,766)

Proceeds from sales of real property

911,065

482,023

610,271

Net cash provided from (used in) investing activities

(2,126,206)

(3,531,593)

(3,592,979)

Financing activities

Net increase (decrease) under unsecured lines of credit
  arrangements

(130,000)

130,000

(610,000)

Proceeds from issuance of senior unsecured notes

773,992

1,756,192

2,025,708

Payments to extinguish senior unsecured notes

(365,188)

(517,625)

(370,524)

Net proceeds from the issuance of secured debt

109,503

89,208

157,418

Payments on secured debt

(341,839)

(674,103)

(406,210)

Net proceeds from the issuance of common stock

2,343,868

1,854,637

3,581,292

Net proceeds from the issuance of preferred stock

-

-

277,687

Redemption of preferred stock

-

-

(275,000)

Decrease (increase) in deferred loan expenses

(16,782)

(13,503)

(7,152)

Contributions by noncontrolling interests

(1)

9,962

5,072

24,115

Distributions to noncontrolling interests

(1)

(43,691)

(35,592)

(29,353)

Acquisitions of non-controlling interests

(1,175)

(23,247)

-

Cash distributions to stockholders

(1,035,069)

(906,275)

(722,450)

Other financing activities

(409)

2,906

(403)

Net cash provided from (used in) financing activities

1,303,172

1,667,670

3,645,128

Effect of foreign currency translation on cash and cash
  equivalents

(690)


-

Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

314,946

(874,984)

870,282

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

158,780

1,033,764

163,482

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

473,726

$

158,780

$

1,033,764

Supplemental cash flow information:

Interest paid

$

504,165

$

447,108

$

369,511

Income taxes paid

18,548

12,110

3,071

(1)

Includes
amounts attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests.

See accompanying notes.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

1. Business

Health Care REIT, Inc., an S&P
500 company with headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, is an equity real estate
investment trust (“REIT”) that invests in seniors housing and health care real
estate. Our full service platform offers property management and development
services to our customers. As of December 31, 2014, our diversified portfolio consisted
of 1,328 properties in 46 states, the United Kingdom, and Canada. Founded in
1970, we were the first real estate investment trust to invest exclusively in
health care facilities.

2. Accounting Policies and Related Matters

Principles of Consolidation

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our wholly-owned
subsidiaries and joint venture entities that we control, through voting rights
or other means. All material intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated in consolidation.

At
inception of joint venture transactions, we identify entities for which control
is achieved through means other than voting rights (“variable interest entities”
or “VIEs”) and determine which business enterprise is the primary beneficiary
of its operations. A VIE is broadly defined as an entity where either
(i) the equity investors as a group, if any, do not have a controlling
financial interest, or (ii) the equity investment at risk is insufficient
to finance that entity’s activities without additional subordinated financial
support. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are determined to be the
primary beneficiary.  Accounting Standards Codification Topic 810,

Consolidations

(“ASC 810”), requires enterprises to perform a qualitative approach to
determining whether or not a VIE will need to be consolidated on a continuous
basis. This evaluation is based on an enterprise’s ability to direct and
influence the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact that entity’s
economic performance.

For
investments in joint ventures, we evaluate the type of rights held by the
limited partner(s), which may preclude consolidation in circumstances in which
the sole general partner would otherwise consolidate the limited partnership.
The assessment of limited partners’ rights and their impact on the presumption
of control over a limited partnership by the sole general partner should be
made when an investor becomes the sole general partner and should be reassessed
if (i) there is a change to the terms or in the exercisability of the
rights of the limited partners, (ii) the sole general

partner increases or decreases its ownership in the limited partnership, or
(iii) there is an increase or decrease in the number of outstanding
limited partnership interests. We similarly evaluate the rights of managing
members of limited liability companies.

Use of Estimates

The
preparation of the financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) requires us to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements
and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Revenue Recognition

Revenue
is recorded in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires that revenue be
recognized after four basic criteria are met. These four criteria include
persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the rendering of service, fixed and
determinable income and reasonably assured collectability. Interest income on
loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount outstanding
subject to an evaluation of collectability risk. Substantially all of our
operating leases contain escalating rent structures. Leases with fixed annual
rental escalators are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the
initial lease period, subject to a collectability assessment. Rental income
related to leases with contingent rental escalators is generally recorded based
on the contractual cash rental payments due for the period.  Leases in our
medical office building portfolio typically include some form of operating
expense reimbursement by the tenant.  Certain payments made to operators are
treated as lease incentives and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the
lease term.  We recognize resident fees and services, other than move-in fees,
monthly as services are provided.  Lease agreements with residents generally
have a term of one year and are cancelable by the resident with 30 days’
notice.

Cash and
Cash Equivalents

Cash
and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an original
maturity of three months or less.

Restricted Cash

Restricted
cash primarily consists of amounts held by lenders to provide future payments
for real estate taxes, insurance, tenant and capital improvements and amounts
held in escrow relating to acquisitions we are entitled to receive over a
period of time as outlined in the escrow agreement.

Deferred Loan Expenses


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Deferred loan expenses are costs
incurred by us in connection with the issuance, assumption and amendments of
debt arrangements. We amortize these costs over the term of the debt using the
straight-line method, which approximates the effective interest method.

Investments in Unconsolidated Entities

Investments
in less than majority owned entities are reported under the equity method of
accounting when our interests represent either (1) general partnership
interests subject to substantive participating or kick-out rights that have
been granted to the limited partners, or (2) limited partnership interests with
no control over major operating and financial policies of the entities. Under
the equity method of accounting, our share of the investee’s earnings or losses
is included in our consolidated results of operations. To the extent that our
cost basis is different from the basis reflected at the entity level, the basis
difference is generally amortized over the lives of the related assets and
liabilities, and such amortization is included in our share of equity in
earnings of the entity.  The initial carrying value of investments in
unconsolidated entities is based on the amount paid to purchase the entity
interest or the estimated fair value of the assets prior to the sale of
interests in the entity. We evaluate our equity method investments for
impairment based upon a comparison of the estimated fair value of the equity
method investment to its carrying value. When we determine a decline in the
estimated fair value of such an investment below its carrying value is
other-than-temporary, an impairment is recorded.

Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests

Certain
noncontrolling interests are redeemable at fair value.  Accordingly, we record
the carrying amount of the noncontrolling interests at the greater of (i) the
initial carrying amount, increased or decreased for the noncontrolling
interest’s share of net income or loss and its share of other comprehensive
income or loss and dividends or (ii) the redemption value.  In accordance with
ASC 810, the redeemable noncontrolling interests were classified outside of
permanent equity, as a mezzanine item, in the balance sheet.

During 2014, we entered
into a DownREIT partnership which gives a real estate seller the ability to
exchange its property on a tax deferred basis for equity membership interests
(“OP units”).  The OP units may be redeemed any time following the first
anniversary of the date of issuance at the election of the holders for one
share of our common stock per unit or, at our option, cash.

Real
Property Owned

Real
property developed by us is recorded at cost, including the capitalization of
construction period interest. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are
expensed as incurred.  Property acquisitions are accounted for as business
combinations where we measure the assets acquired, liabilities (including
assumed debt and contingencies) and any noncontrolling interests at their fair
values on the acquisition date.  The cost of real property acquired, which
represents substantially all of the purchase price, is allocated to net
tangible and identifiable intangible assets based on their respective fair
values. These properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives which range from 15 to 40 years for buildings and 5
to 15 years for improvements. Tangible assets primarily consist of land,
buildings and improvements, including those related to capital leases.  We
consider costs incurred in conjunction with re-leasing properties, including
tenant improvements and lease commissions, to represent the acquisition of
productive assets and, accordingly, such costs are reflected as investment
activities in our statement of cash flows.

The
remaining purchase price is allocated among identifiable intangible assets
primarily consisting of the above or below market component of in-place leases
and the value associated with the presence of in-place tenants or residents. 
The value allocable to the above or below market component of the acquired
in-place lease is determined based upon the present value (using a discount
rate which reflects the risks associated with the acquired leases) of the
difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to the
lease over its remaining term, and (ii) management’s estimate of the
amounts that would be paid using fair market rates over the remaining term of
the lease. The amounts allocated to above market leases are included in
acquired lease intangibles and below market leases are included in other
liabilities in the balance sheet and are amortized to rental income over the
remaining terms of the respective leases.

The
total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to
in-place lease values and customer relationship values for in-place tenants
based on management’s evaluation of the specific characteristics of each
tenant’s lease and our overall relationship with that respective tenant.
Characteristics considered by management in allocating these values include the
nature and extent of our existing business relationships with the tenant,
growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the tenant’s
credit quality and expectations of lease renewals, among other factors

.  The
total amount of other intangible assets acquired is further allocated to
in-place lease values for in-place residents with such value representing (i)
value associated with lost revenue related to tenant reimbursable operating
costs that would be incurred in an assumed re-leasing period, and (ii) value
associated with lost rental revenue from existing leases during an assumed
re-leasing period.  This intangible asset will be amortized over the remaining
life of the lease.

The net book
value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property
basis to determine if facts and circumstances suggest that the assets may be
impaired or that the depreciable life may need to be changed. We consider
external


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

factors relating
to each asset and the existence of a master lease which may link the cash flows
of an individual asset to a larger portfolio of assets leased to the same
tenant. If these factors and the projected undiscounted cash flows of the asset
over the remaining depreciation period indicate that the asset will not be
recoverable, the carrying value is reduced to the estimated fair market value.

In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating
investments in real estate, and in particular, the seniors housing and health
care industries. A downturn in the real estate industry could adversely affect
the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties for a price or
on terms acceptable to us.

Capitalization of Construction Period Interest

We
capitalize interest costs associated with funds used for the construction of
properties owned directly by us. The amount capitalized is based upon the
balance outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest
which approximates our cost of financing. We capitalize interest costs related
to construction of real property owned by us. Our interest expense reflected in
the consolidated statements of comprehensive income has been reduced by the
amounts capitalized.

Gain on Sale of Assets

We
recognize sales of assets only upon the closing of the transaction with the
purchaser. Payments received from purchasers prior to closing are recorded as
deposits and classified as other assets on our consolidated balance sheets.
Gains on assets sold are recognized using the full accrual method upon closing
when (i) the collectability of the sales price is reasonably assured, (ii) we
are not obligated to perform significant activities after the sale to earn the
profit, (iii) we have received adequate initial investment from the purchaser and
(iv) other profit recognition criteria have been satisfied. Gains may be
deferred in whole or in part until the sales satisfy the requirements of gain
recognition on sales of real estate.

Real Estate Loans Receivable

Real
estate loans receivable consist of mortgage loans and other real estate loans.
Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal
amount outstanding subject to an evaluation of collectability risks. The loans
are primarily collateralized by a first, second or third mortgage lien, a
leasehold mortgage on, or an assignment of the partnership interest in, the
related properties, corporate guaranties and/or personal guaranties.

Allowance for Losses on Loans Receivable

The
allowance for losses on loans receivable is maintained at a level believed
adequate to absorb potential losses in our loans receivable. The determination
of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of these loans, including
general economic conditions and estimated collectability of loan payments. We
evaluate the collectability of our loans receivable based on a combination of
factors, including, but not limited to, delinquency status, historical loan
charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and guarantors and value of the
underlying collateral. If such factors indicate that there is greater risk of
loan charge-offs, additional allowances or placement on non-accrual status may
be required. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it
is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due as scheduled
according to the contractual terms of the original loan agreement. Consistent
with this definition, all loans on non-accrual are deemed impaired. To the
extent circumstances improve and the risk of collectability is diminished, we
will return these loans to full accrual status. While a loan is on non-accrual
status, any cash receipts are applied against the outstanding principal
balance.

Goodwill

We account
for goodwill in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Goodwill is tested annually for
impairment and is tested for impairment more frequently if events and
circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. An impairment loss is
recognized to the extent that the carrying amount, including goodwill, exceeds
the reporting unit’s fair value and the implied fair value of goodwill is less
than the carrying amount of that goodwill.  We have not had any goodwill
impairments.

Fair Value of Derivative
Instruments

Derivatives
are recorded at fair value on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities.  The
valuation of derivative instruments requires us to make estimates and judgments
that affect the fair value of the instruments.  Fair values of our derivatives
are estimated by pricing models that consider the forward yield curves and
discount rates.  The fair value of our forward exchange contracts are estimated
by pricing models that consider foreign currency spot rates, forward trade
rates and discount rates.  Such amounts and the recognition of such amounts are
subject to significant estimates that may change in the future. See Note 11
for additional information.

Federal Income Tax

We
have elected to be treated as a REIT under the applicable provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), commencing with our
first taxable year, and made no provision for federal income tax purposes prior
to our acquisition of our “taxable REIT subsidiaries.” As a result of these as
well as subsequent acquisitions, we now record income tax expense or benefit


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

with respect to certain of our entities that are taxed as
taxable REIT subsidiaries under provisions similar to those applicable to
regular corporations and not under the REIT provisions.

We account for deferred
income taxes using the asset and liability method and recognize deferred tax
assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that
have been included in our financial statements or tax returns. Under this
method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the
differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and
liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the
differences are expected to reverse. Any increase or decrease in the deferred
tax liability that results from a change in circumstances, and that causes a
change in our judgment about expected future tax consequences of events, is
included in the tax provision when such changes occur. Deferred income taxes
also reflect the impact of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A
valuation allowance is provided if we believe it is more likely than not that
all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Any
increase or decrease in the valuation allowance that results from a change in
circumstances, and that causes a change in our judgment about the realizability
of the related deferred tax asset, is included in the tax provision when such
changes occur.  See Note 18 for additional information.

Foreign Currency

Certain of our
subsidiaries’ functional currencies are the local currencies of their
respective countries. We translate the results of operations of our foreign
subsidiaries into U.S. dollars using average rates of exchange in effect during
the period, and we translate balance sheet accounts using exchange rates in
effect at the end of the period. We record resulting currency translation
adjustments in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of
stockholders’ equity, on our consolidated balance sheets. We record transaction
gains and losses in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income.

Earnings
Per Share

Basic
earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common
stockholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding for the
period adjusted for non-vested shares of restricted stock. The computation of
diluted earnings per share is similar to basic earnings per share, except that
the number of shares is increased to include the number of additional common
shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common
shares had been issued.

New
Accounting Standards

In April 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-08, “Presentation of
Financial Statements (Topic 205) and Property, Plant, and Equipment (Topic
360): Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of
Components of an Entity” (“ASU 2014-08”), which amends U.S. GAAP to require
reporting of discontinued operations only if the disposal represents a
strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on an entity’s
operations and financial results.  This pronouncement will be effective for the
first annual reporting period beginning after December 15, 2014 with early
adoption permitted.  We adopted ASU 2014-08 on January 1, 2014 on a prospective
basis.  The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our
consolidated financial position or results of operations.

In May 2014, the FASB
issued ASU No. 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)”
(“ASU 2014-09”).  The standard is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model
that requires revenue to be recognized in a manner to depict the transfer of
goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration
expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.  ASU 2014-09
is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years,
beginning after December 15, 2016, and early adoption is not permitted. 
Accordingly, the standard is effective for us on January 1, 2017.  We are
currently evaluating the impact that the standard will have on our consolidated
financial statements and have not yet determined the method by which we will
adopt the standard.

Reclassifications

Certain
amounts in prior years have been reclassified to conform to current year
presentation.


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

3. Real Property Acquisitions and Development

The total purchase price
for all properties acquired has been allocated to the tangible and identifiable
intangible assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests based upon their
respective fair values in accordance with our accounting policies.

The results of operations for these acquisitions have been
included in our consolidated results of operations since the date of
acquisition and are a component of the appropriate segments.  Transaction costs
primarily represent costs incurred with property acquisitions, including due
diligence costs, fees for legal and valuation services and termination of
pre-existing relationships computed based on the fair value of the assets
acquired, lease termination fees and other acquisition-related costs.  During
the year ended December 31, 2014, we

finalized our purchase price
allocation of certain previously reported acquisitions and there were no
material changes from those previously disclosed.

Seniors Housing
Triple-net Activity

The following provides our
purchase price allocations and other seniors housing triple-net real property
investment activity for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,


(1)



Land and land improvements

$

141,387

$

54,596

$

87,372

Buildings and improvements

1,365,638

360,594

1,000,278

Acquired lease intangibles

19,196

-

-

Restricted cash

-


-

Receivables and other assets

4,895

1,020


Total assets acquired

(2)

1,531,116

416,399

1,087,769

Secured debt

(130,638)

(9,810)

(89,881)

Senior unsecured notes

(48,567)

-

-

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

(9,067)

(540)

(3,542)

Total liabilities assumed

(188,272)

(10,350)

(93,423)

Capital in excess of par

-

-


Noncontrolling interests

-

-

(17,215)

Non-cash acquisition related activity

(3)

(3,453)

(12,207)

(616)

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

1,339,391

393,842

977,436

Construction in progress additions

135,349

145,624

180,009

Less:  Capitalized interest

(4,582)

(4,828)

(6,042)

Accruals

Foreign currency translation


-

-

Non-cash related activity

(14,459)

-

-

Cash disbursed for construction in progress

116,729

140,796

173,967

Capital improvements to existing properties

18,901

35,912

67,026

Total cash invested in real property, net of cash acquired

$

1,475,021

$

570,550

$

1,218,429

(1) Includes acquisitions with an aggregate purchase price of
  $1,081,607,000 for which the allocation of the purchase price consideration
  is preliminary and subject to change.

(2) Excludes $1,382,000, $0, and $2,031,000 of cash acquired
  during the year ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

(3) For the year ended December 31, 2013, relates to an asset
  swap transaction.  Please refer to Note 5 for additional information.

Seniors Housing Operating Activity

Acquisitions of seniors
housing operating properties are structured under RIDEA, which is described in
Note 18.  This structure results in the inclusion of all resident revenues and
related property operating expenses from the operation of these qualified
health care properties in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income. 
Certain of our subsidiaries’ functional currencies are the local currencies of
their respective countries. See Note 2 for information regarding our foreign
currency policies.

The following is a summary of our seniors housing operating real
property investment activity for the periods presented (in thousands):


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended December 31,


(1)



Land and land improvements

$

57,534

$

445,152

$

146,332

Buildings and improvements

297,314

4,275,046

1,341,560

Acquired lease intangibles

12,983

396,444

118,077

Construction in progress

27,957

-

-

Restricted cash


44,427

1,296

Receivables and other assets

9,327

79,564

10,125

Total assets acquired

(2)

405,919

5,240,633

1,617,390

Secured debt

(19,834)

(1,275,245)

(124,190)

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

(17,802)

(96,709)

(17,347)

Total liabilities assumed

(37,636)

(1,371,954)

(141,537)

Noncontrolling interests

(482)

(232,575)

(56,884)

Non-cash acquisition related activity

(3)

-

(555,563)

-

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

367,801

3,080,541

1,418,969

Construction in progress additions

12,291

3,894

-

Less:  Capitalized interest

(714)

(57)

-

Less:  Foreign currency translation

(2,012)

-

-

Cash disbursed for construction in progress

9,565

3,837

-

Capital improvements to existing properties

86,803

72,258

21,751

Total cash invested in real property, net of cash acquired

$

464,169

$

3,156,636

$

1,440,720

(1) Includes an aggregate purchase price of $368,313,000
  relating to acquisitions for which the allocation of the purchase price
  consideration is preliminary and subject to change.

(2) Excludes $9,060,000, $92,148,000 and $20,691,000 of cash
  acquired during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012,
  respectively.

(3) Represents Sunrise loan and noncontrolling interest
  acquisitions during the first quarter of 2013.

Medical Facilities
Activity

Accrued contingent
consideration related to certain medical facility acquisitions was $27,374,000,
$26,187,000 and $34,692,000 as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012,
respectively.  Of the amount recognized, $12,500,000 is required to be settled
in the Company’s common stock upon the achievement of certain performance
thresholds.

The following is a
summary of our medical facilities real property investment activity for the
periods presented (in thousands):


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended December 31,


(1)



Land and land improvements

$

63,129

$

14,515

$

68,489

Buildings and improvements

567,847

156,087

632,208

Acquired lease intangibles

46,661

9,432

115,233

Restricted cash

-



Receivables and other assets

-


4,469

Total assets acquired

677,637

180,883

821,374

Secured debt

(66,113)

(55,884)

(267,527)

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

(22,293)

(1,041)

(25,928)

Total liabilities assumed

(88,406)

(56,925)

(293,455)

Noncontrolling interests

(39,987)

(386)

(193)

Non-cash acquisition related activity

(2)

(45,836)

-

(880)

Cash disbursed for acquisitions

503,408

123,572

526,846

Construction in progress additions

99,878

123,494

134,505

Less:  Capitalized interest

(1,854)

(1,815)

(3,735)

Accruals

(3)

(26,437)

(18,752)

(18,327)

Cash disbursed for construction in progress

71,587

102,927

112,443

Capital improvements to existing properties

27,076

27,662

46,673

Total cash invested in real property, net of cash acquired

$

602,071

$

254,161

$

685,962

(1) Includes acquisitions with an aggregate purchase price of
  $489,042,000 for which the allocation of the purchase price consideration is
  preliminary and subject to change.

(2) For the year ended December 31, 2014, relates to an
  acquisition of assets previously financed as real estate loans.  Please refer
  to Note 6 for additional information.

(3) Represents non-cash consideration accruals for amounts to be
  paid in future periods relating to properties that converted in the periods
  noted above.

Construction
Activity

The following is a summary of the
construction projects that were placed into service and began generating
revenues during the periods presented

:

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2012

Development projects:

Seniors housing triple-net

$

71,569

$

133,181

$

146,913

Medical facilities

127,290

127,363

189,135

Total development projects

198,859

260,544

336,048

Expansion projects

24,804

26,395

4,983

Total construction in progress conversions

$

223,663

$

286,939

$

341,031

At December 31, 2014, future
minimum lease payments receivable under operating leases (excluding properties
in our seniors housing operating partnerships and excluding any operating
expense reimbursements) are as follows (in thousands):


$

1,283,484


1,259,168


1,250,683


1,243,452


1,209,371

Thereafter

9,576,144

Totals

$

15,822,302


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

4. Real Estate Intangibles

The following is a summary of our real
estate intangibles, excluding those classified as held for sale, as of the
dates indicated (dollars in thousands):

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Assets:

In place lease intangibles

$

988,290

$

937,357

Above market tenant leases

65,684

55,939

Below market ground leases

62,426

59,165

Lease commissions

19,536

18,293

Gross historical cost

1,135,936

1,070,754

Accumulated amortization

(776,501)

(571,008)

Net book value

$

359,435

$

499,746

Weighted-average amortization period in years

17.7

16.7

Liabilities:

Below market tenant leases

$

91,168

$

76,381

Above market ground leases

7,859

9,490

Gross historical cost

99,027

85,871

Accumulated amortization

(40,891)

(34,434)

Net book value

$

58,136

$

51,437

Weighted-average amortization period in years

14.4

14.3

The following is a summary
of real estate intangible amortization for the periods presented (in
thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Rental income related to above/below market tenant leases, net

$


$


$

1,120

Property operating expenses related to above/below market ground
  leases, net

(1,248)

(1,208)

(1,285)

Depreciation and amortization related to in place lease
  intangibles and lease commissions

(214,966)

(246,938)

(103,044)

The future estimated
aggregate amortization of intangible assets and liabilities is as follows for
the periods presented (in thousands):

Assets

Liabilities


$

58,224

$

3,278


56,656

9,513


54,241

10,795


53,715

7,758


23,038

6,474

Thereafter

113,561

20,318

Totals

$

359,435

$

58,136

5. Dispositions,
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations

We
periodically sell properties for various reasons, including favorable market
conditions or the exercise of tenant purchase options.  Impairment of assets as
reflected in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income relate to
properties designated as held for sale and represent the charges necessary to
adjust the carrying values to estimated fair values less costs to sell based on
current sales price expectations.  The following is a summary of our real
property disposition activity for the periods presented (in thousands):


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2012

Real property dispositions:

Seniors housing triple-net

$

747,720

$

189,572

$

372,378

Medical facilities

45,695

259,367

149,344

Total dispositions

793,415

448,939

521,722

Gain (loss) on sales of real property, net

153,522

49,138

100,549

Seller financing on sales of real property

-

(3,850)

(12,000)

Non-cash disposition activity

(35,872)

(12,204)

-

Proceeds from real property sales

$

911,065

$

482,023

$

610,271

Discontinued
Operations

As discussed in Note 2, we adopted ASU 2014-08 effective
January 1, 2014.  During the year-ended December 31, 2014, we sold seniors
housing triple-net properties previously held for sale with a balance of
$18,502,000 for a gain of $6,411,000.  We have reclassified the income and
expenses attributable to all properties sold prior to or held for sale at
January 1, 2014 to discontinued operations.  The following illustrates the
reclassification impact as reported in our Consolidated Statements of
Comprehensive Income as a result of classifying these properties as
discontinued operations for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Rental income

$


$

18,377

$

96,378

Expenses:

Interest expense


4,246

21,735

Property operating expenses

-

3,396

4,482

Provision for depreciation

-

8,160

27,365

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net

$


$

2,575

$

42,796

Dispositions
and Assets Held for Sale

Pursuant
to our adoption of ASU 2014-08, operating results attributable to properties
sold subsequent to or classified as held for sale after January 1, 2014 and
which do not meet the definition of discontinued operations are no longer
reclassified on our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.  The
following represents the activity related to these properties for the periods
presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31,




Revenues:

Rental income

$

90,541

$

108,133

$

104,478

Expenses:

Interest expense

20,339

22,119

23,298

Property operating expenses

1,755

3,024

2,716

Provision for depreciation

26,715

32,128

31,238

Total expenses

48,809

57,271

57,252

Income (loss) from real estate dispositions, net

$

41,732

$

50,862

$

47,226


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

6. Real Estate Loans Receivable

The following is a summary of our real
estate loans receivable (in thousands):

December
  31,



Mortgage loans

$

188,651

$

146,987

Other real estate loans

191,518

185,159

Totals

$

380,169

$

332,146

The following is
a summary of our real estate loan activity for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2012

Seniors

Seniors

Seniors

Seniors

Housing

Medical

Housing

Medical

Housing

Housing

Medical

Triple-net

Facilities

Totals

Triple-net

Facilities

Totals

Triple-net

Operating

(2)

Facilities

Totals

Advances on real estate loans receivable:

Investments in new loans

$

61,730

$

60,902

$

122,632

$

41,180

$

4,095

$

45,275

$

2,220

$

580,834

$

38,336

$

621,390

Draws on existing loans

59,420

20,155

79,575

71,315

4,319

75,634

43,645

-


43,704

Sub-total

121,150

81,057

202,207

112,495

8,414

120,909

45,865

580,834

38,395

665,094

Less: Seller financing on property sales

-

-

-

(3,850)

-

(3,850)

-

-

-

-

Net cash advances on real estate loans

121,150

81,057

202,207

108,645

8,414

117,059

45,865

580,834

38,395

665,094

Receipts on real estate loans receivable:

Loan payoffs

71,004

48,258

119,262

69,596

-

69,596

12,555

-

-

12,555

Principal payments on loans

31,998


32,070

33,216


33,290

22,395

-


22,465

Sub-total

103,002

48,330

151,332

102,812


102,886

34,950

-


35,020

Less: Non-cash activity

(1)

-

(45,836)

(45,836)

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Net cash receipts on real estate loans

103,002

2,494

105,496

102,812


102,886

34,950

-


35,020

Net cash advances (receipts) on real estate loans

18,148

78,563

96,711

5,833

8,340

14,173

10,915

580,834

38,325

630,074

Change in balance due to foreign currency translation

(2,852)

-

(2,852)

1,402

-

1,402

-

-

-

-

Net change in real estate loans receivable

$

15,296

$

32,727

$

48,023

$

7,235

$

8,340

$

15,575

$

10,915

$

580,834

$

38,325

$

630,074

(1) Represents loan to Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. that was
  acquired upon merger consummation on January 9, 2013.

(2) Represents an acquisition of assets previously financed as a
  real estate loan.

The following is a summary of the
allowance for losses on loans receivable for the periods presented (in
thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Balance at beginning of  year

$

-

$

-

$

-

Provision for loan losses

-

2,110

27,008

Charge-offs

-

(2,110)

(27,008)

Balance at end of  year

$

-

$

-

$

-

The
following is a summary of our loan impairments (in thousands):


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended December 31,




Balance of impaired loans at end of  year

$

21,000

$


$

4,230

Allowance for loan losses

-

-

-

Balance of impaired loans not reserved

$

21,000

$


$

4,230

Average impaired loans for the year

$

10,750

$

2,365

$

5,237

Interest recognized on impaired loans

(1)




(1) Represents interest recognized prior to placement on
  non-accrual status.

7. Investments
in Unconsolidated Entities

We participate in a number of joint
ventures, which generally invest in seniors housing and health care real
estate.  The results of operations for these properties have been included in
our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition by the
joint ventures and are reflected in our statements of comprehensive income as
income or loss from unconsolidated entities.  The following is a summary of our
investments in unconsolidated entities (dollars in thousands):

Percentage
  Ownership

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Seniors housing triple-net

(1)

10%
  to 49%

$

31,511

$

27,513

Seniors housing operating

10%
  to 50%

539,147

263,838

Medical facilities

36%
  to 49%

173,493

188,278

Total

$

744,151

$

479,629

(1) As of December 31, 2013, asset amounts include an
  available-for-sale equity investment. See Note 16 for additional information.

At December
31, 2014, the aggregate unamortized basis difference of our joint venture
investments of $175,369,000 is primarily attributable to appreciation of the
underlying properties and transaction costs.  This difference will be amortized
over the remaining useful life of the related properties and included in the
reported amount of income from unconsolidated entities.

Summarized
combined financial information for our investments in unconsolidated entities
held as of December 31, 2014 is as follows (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,



Net real estate investments

$

2,470,623

$

1,589,590

Other assets

998,648

564,109

Total assets

3,469,271

2,153,699

Total liabilities

1,778,540

1,227,053

Redeemable noncontrolling interests

40,525

29,482

Total equity

$

1,650,206

$

897,164

Year
  Ended December 31,


(1)


(2)


Total revenues

$

1,875,744

$

1,678,485

$

324,941

Net income (loss)

316,139

(17,064)

10,702

(1) Beginning February 28, 2014, includes the financial
  information for the Senior Resource Group unconsolidated entities.

(2) Beginning January 9, 2013, includes the financial
  information for the Sunrise management company and the unconsolidated Sunrise
  Senior Living properties.


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

8. Credit Concentration

The
following table summarizes certain information about our credit concentration
as of December 31, 2014, excluding our share of investments in unconsolidated
entities.  See Note 7 for additional information (dollars in thousands):

Number
  of

Total

Percent
  of

Concentration by investment:

(1)

Properties

Investment

Investment

(2)

Sunrise Senior Living

(3)


$

4,130,125

18%

Genesis Healthcare


2,657,907

12%

Brookdale


1,401,834

6%

Revera


1,038,099

5%

Benchmark


917,995

4%

Remaining portfolio


12,705,236

55%

Totals

1,260

$

22,851,196

100%

_____________________

(1)

Genesis
is in our seniors housing triple-net segment. Sunrise Senior Living and Revera
are in our seniors housing operating segment.  Brookdale and Benchmark are in
both our seniors housing triple-net and seniors housing operating segments.

(2)

Investments with
our top five relationships comprised 44% of total investments at December 31,
2013.

(3)

For the year
ended December 31, 2014, we recognized $895,897,000 of revenue from Sunrise
Senior Living

.

9. Borrowings
Under Credit Facilities and Related Items

On
July 25, 2014, we closed on a new primary unsecured credit facility with a
consortium of 28 banks that includes a $2,500,000,000 unsecured revolving
credit facility, a $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility and a $250,000,000
Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility.  We have an option to
upsize the unsecured revolving credit facility and the $500,000,000 unsecured
term credit facility by up to an additional $1,000,000,000 and the $250,000,000
Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility by up to an additional
$250,000,000 through an accordion feature.  The primary unsecured credit
facility also allows us to borrow up to $500,000,000 in alternative currencies
(none outstanding at December 31, 2014).  Borrowings under the unsecured
revolving credit facility are subject to interest payable at the applicable
margin over LIBOR interest rate (1.22% at December 31, 2014).  The applicable
margin is based on certain of our debt ratings and was 1.150% at December 31,
2014.  In addition, we pay a facility fee quarterly to each bank based on the
bank’s respective commitment amount.  The facility fee depends on certain of our
debt ratings and was 0.200% at December 31, 2014.  The primary unsecured credit
facility provides us with additional borrowing capacity and extends the
agreement to October 31, 2018.  It can be extended for an additional year at
our option.

The following information relates to
aggregate borrowings under our primary unsecured credit facility for the
periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Balance outstanding at year end

(1)

$

-

$

130,000

$

-

Maximum amount outstanding at any month end

$

637,000

$

1,019,050

$

897,000

Average amount outstanding (total of daily

principal balances divided by days in period)

$

207,452

$

488,842

$

191,378

Weighted-average interest rate (actual interest

expense divided by average borrowings outstanding)

1.50%

1.45%

1.80%

(1) As of December 31, 2014, letters of credit in the aggregate
  amount of $71,276,000 have been issued which reduce the available borrowing
  capacity on the primary unsecured credit facility.

10. Senior
Unsecured Notes and Secured Debt

We may
repurchase, redeem or refinance convertible and non-convertible senior
unsecured notes from time to time, taking advantage of favorable market
conditions when available. We may purchase senior notes for cash through open
market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, a tender offer or, in some
cases, through the early redemption of such securities pursuant to their
terms.   The non-convertible senior unsecured notes are redeemable at our
option, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

a redemption price equal to the sum of (1) the
principal amount of the notes (or portion of such notes) being redeemed plus
accrued and unpaid interest thereon up to the redemption date and (2) any
“make-whole” amount due under the terms of the notes in connection with early
redemptions.   Redemptions and repurchases of debt, if any, will depend on
prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual
restrictions and other factors.  At December 31, 2014, the annual principal
payments due on these debt obligations were as follows (in thousands):

Senior

Secured

Unsecured
  Notes

(1,2)

Debt

(1,3)

Totals


$

-

$

399,813

$

399,813


700,000

412,248

1,112,248


450,000

358,023

808,023


450,000

436,884

886,884


(4,5)

1,315,499

370,072

1,685,571

Thereafter

(6,7)

4,901,655

964,725

5,866,380

Totals

$

7,817,154

$

2,941,765

$

10,758,919

(1) Amounts represent principal amounts due and do not include
  unamortized premiums/discounts or other fair value adjustments as reflected
  on the consolidated balance sheet.

(2) Annual interest rates range from 1.32% to 6.5%.

(3) Annual interest rates range from 1.0% to 7.98%.  Carrying
  value of the properties securing the debt totaled $5,424,956,000 at December
  31, 2014.

(4) On July 25, 2014, we refinanced the funding on a $250,000,000
  Canadian-denominated unsecured term credit facility (approximately
  $215,498,664 based on the Canadian/U.S. Dollar exchange rate on December 31,
  2014). The loan matures on October 31, 2018 (with an option to extend for an
  additional year at our discretion) and bears interest at the Canadian Dealer
  Offered Rate plus 115 basis points (2.4% at December 31, 2014).

(5) On July 25, 2014, we refinanced the funding on a
  $500,000,000 unsecured term credit facility.  The loan matures on October 31,
  2018 (with an option to extend for one additional year at our discretion) and
  bears interest at LIBOR plus 115 basis points (1.32% at December 31, 2014).

(6) On November 20, 2013, we completed funding on £550,000,000
  (approximately $853,790,000 based on the Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange rate
  on December 31, 2014) of 4.8% senior unsecured notes due 2028.

(7) On November 25, 2014, we completed funding on £500,000,000
  (approximately $781,900,000 based on the Sterling/U.S. Dollar exchange rate
  on December 31, 2014) of 4.5% senior unsecured notes due 2034.

The following is a summary of our senior unsecured note principal activity during
the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2012

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Beginning balance

$

7,421,707

4.395%

$

5,894,403

4.675%

$

4,464,927

5.133%

Debt issued

838,804

4.572%

2,036,930

3.824%

1,800,000

3.691%

Debt extinguished

(298,567)

5.855%

(300,000)

6.000%

(76,853)

8.000%

Debt redeemed

(59,143)

3.000%

(219,295)

3.000%

(293,671)

4.750%

Foreign currency

(85,647)

4.222%

9,669

3.993%

-

0.000%

Ending balance

$

7,817,154

4.385%

$

7,421,707

4.395%

$

5,894,403

4.675%

During the twelve
months ended December 31, 2010, we issued $494,403,000 of 3.00% senior
unsecured convertible notes due December 2029. The notes are convertible, in
certain circumstances, into cash and, if applicable, shares of common stock at
an initial conversion rate of 19.5064 shares per $1,000 principal amount of
notes, which represents an initial conversion price of $51.27 per share. In
general, upon conversion, the holder of each note would receive, in respect of
the conversion value of such note, cash up to the principal amount of such note
and common stock for the note’s conversion value in excess of such principal
amount. In addition, on each of December 1, 2019 and December 1,
2024, holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a
purchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be
purchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. The notes are bifurcated into
a debt component and an equity component since they may be settled in cash upon
conversion. The value of the debt component is based upon the estimated fair
value of a similar debt instrument without the conversion feature at the time
of issuance. The difference between the contractual principal on the debt and
the value allocated to the debt of $29,925,000 was recorded as an equity
component and represents the conversion feature of the instrument. The excess
of the contractual principal amount of the debt over its estimated fair value
is amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the
period used to estimate the fair value.  During the year ended December 31,
2014, we received notice of conversion from holders of $59,143,000 of the
senior


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

unsecured convertible
notes.  These notes were converted into 258,542 shares of common stock and
we recognized a loss on extinguishment of $974,000, which is reflected on the
consolidated statement of comprehensive income.  Subsequent to December 31,
2014, we received notices of conversion from holders of $142,238,000 of the
senior unsecured convertible notes which are expected to settle by March 31,
2015.

The following is a
summary of our secured debt principal activity for the periods presented
(dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2012

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Amount

Interest
  Rate

Beginning balance

$

3,010,711

5.095%

$

2,311,586

5.140%

$

2,108,384

5.285%

Debt issued

109,503

3.374%

89,208

4.982%

157,418

4.212%

Debt assumed

204,949

4.750%

1,290,858

4.159%

444,744

5.681%

Debt extinguished

(279,559)

4.824%

(614,375)

3.730%

(360,403)

4.672%

Principal payments

(62,280)

4.930%

(56,205)

5.248%

(38,744)

5.456%

Foreign currency

(41,559)

3.811%

(10,361)

4.013%


5.637%

Ending balance

$

2,941,765

4.940%

$

3,010,711

5.095%

$

2,311,586

5.140%

Our debt agreements
contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Certain
agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net
worth and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens
and make investments or acquisitions. As of December 31, 2014, we were in
compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements.

11.
Derivative Instruments

We are exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss arising
from adverse changes in interest rates. We may elect to use financial
derivative instruments to hedge interest rate exposure. These decisions are
principally based on our policy to manage the general trend in interest rates
at the applicable dates and our perception of the future volatility of interest
rates.  In addition, non-U.S. investments expose us to the potential losses
associated with adverse changes in foreign currency to U.S. Dollar exchange
rates.  We have elected to manage these risks through the use of forward
exchange contracts and issuing debt in the foreign currency.

I

nterest
Rate Swap Contracts and Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Cash
Flow Hedges

For instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the
effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a
component of other comprehensive income (“OCI”), and reclassified into earnings
in the same period, or periods, during which the hedged transaction affects
earnings.  Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness
or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are
recognized in earnings.  Approximately $1,137,000 of gains, which are included
in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”), are expected to be
reclassified into earnings in the next 12 months.

Foreign
Currency Hedges

For instruments that are designated and qualify as net investment hedges, the
variability in the foreign currency to U.S. dollar of the instrument is
recorded as a cumulative translation adjustment component of OCI.  The
balance of the cumulative translation adjustment will be reclassified to
earnings when the hedged investment is sold or substantially liquidated.

The following presents the notional
amount of derivatives and other financial instruments as of the dates indicated
(in thousands):


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Derivatives designated as net investment hedges:

Denominated in Canadian Dollars

$

900,000

$

600,000

Denominated in Pounds Sterling

£

350,000

£

350,000

Financial instruments designated as net investment hedges:

Denominated in Canadian Dollars

$

250,000

$

250,000

Denominated in Pounds Sterling

£

1,050,000

£

550,000

Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges

Denominated in U.S. Dollars

$

57,000

$

57,000

Denominated in Canadian Dollars

$

58,000

$

-

Denominated in Pounds Sterling

£

40,000

£

-

Derivative instruments not designated:

Denominated in Canadian Dollars

$

12,000

$

-

The following presents
the impact of derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statements of
Comprehensive Income for the periods presented (in thousands):

Year
  Ended

Location

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2012

Gain (loss) on interest rate swap recognized in OCI (effective
  portion)

OCI

$

(15)

$

(16)

$

3,200

Gain (loss) on interest rate swaps reclassified from AOCI into
  income (effective portion)

Interest expense

(1,799)

(1,914)

(1,596)

Gain (loss) on forward exchange contracts recognized in income

Gain (loss) on derivatives, net

1,495

(4,470)

1,921

Gain (loss) on interest rate swaps recognized in income

Gain (loss) on derivatives, net

-

-

(96)

Gain on release of cumulative translation adjustment related to
  net investment hedge of an equity investment

Income (loss) from unconsolidated entities


-

-

Gain (loss) on forward exchange contracts and term loans
  designated as net investment hedge recognized in OCI

OCI

103,140

(28,244)

(5,134)

12. Commitments and Contingencies

At
December 31, 2014, we had eight outstanding letter of credit obligations totaling
$82,456,000 and expiring between 2015 and 2018.  At December 31, 2014, we had
outstanding construction in process of $186,327,000 for leased properties and
were committed to providing additional funds of approximately $227,618,000 to
complete construction. At December 31, 2014, we had contingent purchase
obligations totaling $80,874,000. These contingent purchase obligations relate
to unfunded capital improvement obligations and contingent obligations on
acquisitions. Rents due from the tenant are increased to reflect the additional
investment in the property. At December 31, 2014, we had an unfunded commitment
of $360,000,000 related to a secured bridge facility with one of our operators
for which we are receiving a commitment fee.


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

We evaluate our leases for operating
versus capital lease treatment in accordance with ASC Topic 840 “Leases.” 
A lease is classified as a capital lease if it provides for transfer of ownership
of the leased asset at the end of the lease term, contains a bargain purchase
option, has a lease term greater than 75% of the economic life of the leased
asset, or if the net present value of the future minimum lease payments are in
excess of 90% of the fair value of the leased asset. Certain leases contain
bargain purchase options and have been classified as capital leases.  At
December 31, 2014, we had operating lease obligations of $916,404,000  relating
to certain ground leases and Company office space. Regarding the ground leases,
we have sublease agreements with certain of our operators that require the
operators to reimburse us for our monthly operating lease obligations. At
December 31, 2014, aggregate future minimum rentals to be received under these
noncancelable subleases totaled $27,190,000.

At December 31, 2014, future minimum
lease payments due under operating and capital leases are as follows (in
thousands):

Operating
  Leases

Capital
  Leases

(1)


$

15,078

$

13,157


15,158

4,732


15,212

4,732


15,249

4,679


15,208

4,333

Thereafter

840,499

80,093

Totals

$

916,404

$

111,726

(1) Amounts above represent principal and interest obligations
  under capital lease arrangements.  Related assets with a gross value of
  $185,250,000 and accumulated depreciation of $17,953,000 are recorded in real
  property.

13. Stockholders’
Equity

The following is a summary of our
stockholder’s equity capital accounts as of the dates indicated:

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value:

Authorized shares

50,000,000

50,000,000

Issued shares

25,875,000

26,108,236

Outstanding shares

25,875,000

26,108,236

Common Stock, $1.00 par value:

Authorized shares

700,000,000

400,000,000

Issued shares

329,487,615

290,024,789

Outstanding shares

328,790,066

289,563,651

Preferred Stock.

The following
is a summary of our preferred stock activity during the periods presented (dollars
in thousands, except per share amounts):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2012

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Weighted
  Avg.

Shares

Dividend
  Rate

Shares

Dividend
  Rate

Shares

Dividend
  Rate

Beginning balance

26,108,236

6.496%

26,224,854

6.493%

25,724,854

7.013%

Shares issued

-

0.000%

-

0.000%

11,500,000

6.500%

Shares redeemed

-

0.000%

-

0.000%

(11,000,000)

7.716%

Shares converted

(233,236)

6.000%

(116,618)

6.000%

-

0.000%

Ending balance

25,875,000

6.500%

26,108,236

6.496%

26,224,854

6.493%

During
the three months ended December 31, 2010, we issued 349,854 shares of 6.00%
Series H Cumulative Convertible and


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Redeemable Preferred Stock in connection with a business
combination.  During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014, all shares
were converted into common stock, leaving zero shares outstanding.

During the three months ended March
31, 2011, we issued 14,375,000 of 6.50% Series I Cumulative Convertible
Perpetual Preferred Stock.  These shares have a liquidation value of $50.00 per
share.  Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears.  The preferred stock is not
redeemable by us.  The preferred shares are convertible, at the holder’s
option, into 0.8460 shares of common stock (equal to an initial conversion
price of approximately $59.10).

During the three months ended March
31, 2012, we issued 11,500,000 of 6.50% Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Stock.  Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears.  The preferred stock, which
has no stated maturity, may be redeemed by us at a redemption price of $25.00
per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares to the redemption
date, on or after March 7, 2017.

Common
Stock

. The following is a summary of our common stock issuances during the periods
indicated (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts):

Shares
  Issued

Average
  Price

Gross
  Proceeds

Net
  Proceeds

February 2012 public issuance

20,700,000

$

53.50

$

1,107,450

$

1,062,256

August 2012 public issuance

13,800,000

58.75

810,750

778,011

September 2012 public issuance

29,900,000

56.00

1,674,400

1,606,665

2012 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

2,136,140

56.37

120,411

120,411

2012 Option exercises

341,371

40.86

13,949

13,949

2012 Senior note conversions

1,039,721

-

-

2012 Totals

67,917,232

$

3,726,960

$

3,581,292

May 2013 public issuance

23,000,000

$

73.50

$

1,690,500

$

1,630,281

2013 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

3,429,928

62.78

215,346

215,346

2013 Option exercises

213,724

42.16

9,010

9,010

2013 Senior note conversions

988,007

-

-

2013 Preferred stock conversions

116,618

-

-

2013 Equity issued in acquisition of noncontrolling interest

1,108,917

-

-

2013 Totals

28,857,194

$

1,914,856

$

1,854,637

June 2014 public issuance

16,100,000

62.35

1,003,835

968,517

September 2014 public issuance

17,825,000

63.75

1,136,344

1,095,465

2014 Dividend reinvestment plan issuances

4,122,941

62.35

257,055

257,055

2014 Option exercises

498,549

45.79

22,831

22,831

2014 Preferred stock conversions

233,236

-

-

2014 Stock incentive plans, net of forfeitures

188,147

-

-

2014 Senior note conversions

258,542

-

-

2014 Totals

39,226,415

$

2,420,065

$

2,343,868

During the twelve months ended
December 31, 2013, we acquired the remaining 20% noncontrolling interest in an
existing partnership for $91,000,000 which consisted of $23,247,000 of cash and
1,108,917 shares of common stock. In connection with the acquisition, we
incurred $2,732,000 of transaction costs, which we have included as a reduction
to additional paid in capital

.

Dividends

.

The increase in
dividends is primarily attributable to increases in our common shares
outstanding as described above.  Please refer to Notes 2 and 18 for information
related to federal income tax of dividends.  The following is a summary of our dividend
payments (in thousands, except per share amounts)

:


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

December
  31, 2012

Per
  Share

Amount

Per
  Share

Amount

Per
  Share

Amount

Common Stock

$

3.18000

$

969,661

$

3.06000

$

839,939

$

2.96000

$

653,321

Series D Preferred Stock

-

-

-

-

0.50301

2,012

Series F Preferred Stock

-

-

-

-

0.48715

3,410

Series H Preferred Stock

0.00794


2.85840


2.85840

1,000

Series I Preferred Stock

3.25000

46,719

3.25000

46,719

3.25000

46,719

Series J Preferred Stock

1.62510

18,688

1.62510

18,687

1.39038

15,988

Totals

$

1,035,069

$

906,275

$

722,450

Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income

.

The following is
a summary of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) for the periods
presented (in thousands):

Unrecognized
  gains (losses) related to:

Foreign
  Currency Translation

Equity
  Investments

Actuarial
  losses

Cash
  Flow Hedges

Total

Balance at December 31, 2013

$

(17,631)

$

(389)

$

(1,452)

$

(5,059)

$

(24,531)

Other comprehensive income before reclassification adjustments

(56,611)


(137)

2,610

(53,749)

Reclassification amount to net income

(528)

-

-

1,799

(1)

1,271

Net current-period other comprehensive income

(57,139)


(137)

4,409

(52,478)

Balance at December 31, 2014

$

(74,770)

$

-

$

(1,589)

$

(650)

$

(77,009)

Balance at December 31, 2012

$

(881)

$

(216)

$

(2,974)

$

(6,957)

$

(11,028)

Other comprehensive income before reclassification adjustments

(16,750)

(173)

1,522

(16)

(15,417)

Reclassification amount to net income

-

-

-

1,914

(1)

1,914

Net current-period other comprehensive income

(16,750)

(173)

1,522

1,898

(13,503)

Balance at December 31, 2013

$

(17,631)

$

(389)

$

(1,452)

$

(5,059)

$

(24,531)

(1) Please see Note 11 for additional information.

Other
Equity

.  Other equity consists of accumulated option compensation expense,
which represents the amount of amortized compensation costs related to stock
options awarded to employees and directors.

14. Stock Incentive Plans

Our
Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan authorizes up to 6,200,000
shares of common stock to be issued at the discretion of the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors. The 2005 Plan replaced the 1995 Stock
Incentive Plan and the Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors. The options
granted to officers and key employees under the 1995 Plan vested through 2010
and expire ten years from the date of grant. Our non-employee directors,
officers and key employees are eligible to participate in the 2005 Plan. The
2005 Plan allows for the issuance of, among other things, stock options,
restricted stock, deferred stock units and dividend equivalent rights.  Under
our long-term incentive plan, certain restricted stock awards are performance
based.  Compensation expense for these performance grants is measured based on
the probability of achievement of certain objective and subjective performance
goals and is recognized over both the performance period and vesting period. 
If the estimated number of performance based restricted stock to be earned
changes, an adjustment will be recorded to recognize the accumulated difference
between the revised and previous estimates.  Vesting periods for options,
deferred stock units and restricted shares generally range from one to three
years for non-employee directors and from three to five years for officers and
key employees. Options expire ten years from the date of grant.

The following table
summarizes compensation expense recognized for the periods presented (in
thousands):


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended December 31,




Stock options

$


$

1,113

$

2,777

Restricted stock

31,163

19,064

15,744

$

32,075

$

20,177

$

18,521

Stock Options

We
have not granted stock options since the year ended December 31, 2012 but some
remain outstanding.  As of December 31, 2014, there was $1,147,000 of total
unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock options that is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of two years.  Stock
options outstanding at December 31, 2014 have an aggregate intrinsic value of
$19,358,000.

Restricted Stock

The fair value of the restricted stock is
equal to the market price of the company’s common stock on the date of grant
and is amortized over the vesting periods.

As of December 31, 2014, there was $30,692,000 of total
unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested restricted stock that is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of three years.  The
following table summarizes information about non-vested restricted stock
incentive awards as of and for the year ended December 31, 2014:

Restricted
  Stock

Number
  of

Weighted-Average

Shares

Grant
  Date

(000's)

Fair
  Value

Non-vested at December 31, 2013


$

56.92

Vested

(553)

56.29

Granted


57.59

Terminated

(5)

57.20

Non-vested at December 31, 2014


$

57.94

15. Earnings Per
Share

The
following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per
share (in thousands, except per share data):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Numerator for basic and diluted earnings

per share - net income attributable to

common stockholders

$

446,745

$

78,714

$

221,884

Denominator for basic earnings per

share: weighted-average shares

306,272

276,929

224,343

Effect of dilutive securities:

Employee stock options




Non-vested restricted shares




Convertible senior unsecured notes


1,149

1,067

Dilutive potential common shares

1,475

1,832

1,610

Denominator for diluted earnings per

share: adjusted-weighted average shares

307,747

278,761

225,953

Basic earnings per share

$

1.46

$

0.28

$

0.99

Diluted earnings per share

$

1.45

$

0.28

$

0.98

The diluted earnings per share calculations exclude the
dilutive effect of 0, 0, and 182,000 stock options for the years

ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, because the
exercise prices were more than the average market price. The Series H


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock and
the Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock were excluded
from the calculations as the effect of the conversions were anti-dilutive.

16. Disclosure about
Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate
the fair value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable
to estimate that value.

Mortgage Loans and Other Real Estate Loans Receivable

— The fair value of mortgage loans and other real estate
loans receivable is generally estimated by using level two and level three
inputs such as discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current
rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit
ratings and for the same remaining maturities.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

— The carrying amount approximates fair value.

Available-for-sale Equity Investments

— Available-for-sale equity investments are recorded at
their fair value based on level one publicly available trading prices.

Borrowings Under Primary Unsecured Credit Facility

— The carrying amount of the primary unsecured credit
facility approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate
adjustable.

Senior Unsecured Notes

— The fair value of the senior unsecured notes payable was estimated based on
level one publicly available trading prices.

Secured Debt

— The
fair value of fixed rate secured debt is estimated using level two inputs by
discounting the estimated future cash flows using the current rates at which
similar loans would be made with similar credit ratings and for the same
remaining maturities.  The carrying amount of variable rate secured debt
approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate adjustable.

Interest Rate Swap Agreements

— Interest rate swap agreements are recorded in other
assets or other liabilities on the balance sheet at fair market value.  Fair
market value is estimated using level two inputs by utilizing pricing models that
consider forward yield curves and discount rates.

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts

— Foreign currency forward contracts are recorded in other
assets or other liabilities on the balance sheet at fair market value.  Fair
market value is determined using level two inputs by estimating the future
value of the currency pair based on existing exchange rates, comprised of
current spot and traded forward points, and calculating a present value of the
net amount using a discount factor based on observable traded interest rates.

Redeemable OP Unitholder Interests

— The fair value of our redeemable unitholder interests are
recorded on the balance sheet at fair value using Level 2 inputs.  The fair
value is measured using the closing price of our common stock, as units may be
redeemed at the election of the holder for cash or, at our option, one share of
our common stock per unit, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances.

The
carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our financial instruments are as
follows (in thousands):


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Carrying

Fair

Carrying

Fair

Amount

Value

Amount

Value

Financial Assets:

Mortgage loans receivable

$

188,651

$

194,935

$

146,987

$

148,088

Other real estate loans receivable

191,518

195,375

185,159

188,920

Available-for-sale equity investments

-

-

1,211

1,211

Cash and cash equivalents

473,726

473,726

158,780

158,780

Foreign currency forward contracts

57,087

57,087

-

-

Financial Liabilities:

Borrowings under unsecured lines of credit arrangements

$

-

$

-

$

130,000

$

130,000

Senior unsecured notes

7,766,251

8,613,702

7,379,308

7,743,730

Secured debt

2,977,713

3,053,067

3,058,248

3,168,775

Foreign currency forward contracts

1,495

1,495

11,637

11,637

Redeemable OP unitholder interests

$

46,722

$

46,722

$

-

$

-

U.S.
GAAP provides authoritative guidance for measuring and disclosing fair value
measurements of assets and liabilities.  The guidance defines fair value as the
exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a
liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the
asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the
measurement date.  The guidance also establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires
an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of
unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.  The guidance describes three
levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:

Level 1 - Quoted
prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

Level 2 -
Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar
assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other
inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for
substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.  Please see Note 2
for additional information.

Level 3 -
Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that
are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.

Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis

The market approach is utilized to measure fair value for
our financial assets and liabilities reported at fair value on a recurring
basis.  The market approach uses prices and other relevant information
generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or
liabilities.

Fair
  Value Measurements as of December 31, 2014

Total

Level

Level

Level

Foreign currency forward contracts

(1)

$

55,592

$

-

$

55,592

$

-

Redeemable OP unitholder interests

46,722

-

46,722

-

Totals

$

102,314

$

-

$

102,314

$

-

(1) Please see Note 11 for additional information.

Items Measured at Fair Value
on a Nonrecurring Basis

In
addition to items that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, we also
have assets and liabilities in our balance sheet that are measured at fair
value on a nonrecurring basis.  As these assets and liabilities are not
measured at fair value on a recurring basis, they are not included in the
tables above. Assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interests that are
measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include those acquired/assumed in
business combinations (see Note 3) and asset impairments (see Note 5 for


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

impairments of real property and Note 6 for impairments
of loans receivable). We have determined that the fair value measurements
included in each of these assets and liabilities rely primarily on
Company-specific inputs and our assumptions about the use of the assets and
settlement of liabilities, as observable inputs are not available. As such, we have
determined that each of these fair value measurements generally reside within
Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. We estimate the fair value of real
estate and related intangibles using the income approach and unobservable data
such as net operating income and estimated capitalization and discount rates. 
We also consider local and national industry market data including comparable
sales, and commonly engage an external real estate appraiser to assist us in
our estimation of fair value.  We estimate the fair value of assets held for
sale based on current sales price expectations or, in the absence of such price
expectations, Level 3 inputs described above.  We estimate the fair value of
secured debt assumed in business combinations using current interest rates at
which similar borrowings could be obtained on the transaction date.

17. Segment Reporting

We invest in seniors housing and health care real estate. We
evaluate our business and make resource allocations on our four operating segments:
seniors housing triple-net, seniors housing operating, medical office buildings
and life science. During 2014, we realigned our corporate structure and
operating segment designations.  Accordingly, the segment information provided
in this note has been reclassified to conform to the current presentation for
all periods presented.  As part of the change in presentation, we removed the
“hospitals” operating segment.  Amounts previously classified within
“hospitals” and aggregated into the medical facilities reporting segment have
been reclassified to seniors housing triple-net properties.

Our seniors housing
triple-net properties include long-term/post-acute care facilities, hospitals, assisted
living facilities, independent living/continuing care retirement communities,
care homes (United Kingdom), independent support living facilities (Canada),
care homes with nursing (United Kingdom) and combinations thereof.  Under the
seniors housing triple-net segment, we invest in seniors housing and health
care real estate through acquisition and financing of primarily single tenant properties.
 Properties acquired are primarily leased under triple-net leases and we are
not involved in the management of the property.  Our seniors housing operating
properties include the seniors housing communities referenced above that are
owned and/or operated through RIDEA structures (see Notes 3 and 18).

Our medical facility
properties include medical office buildings and life science buildings which
are aggregated into our medical facilities reportable segment. Our medical
office buildings are typically leased to multiple tenants and generally require
a certain level of property management.  Our life science investment represents
an investment in an unconsolidated entity (see Note 7).

We evaluate performance
based upon net operating income from continuing operations (“NOI”) of each
segment.  We define NOI as total revenues, including tenant reimbursements,
less property operating expenses.  We believe NOI provides investors relevant
and useful information because it measures the operating performance of our
properties at the property level on an unleveraged basis.  We use NOI to make
decisions about resource allocations and to assess the property level
performance of our properties.

Non-segment revenue
consists mainly of interest income on non-real estate investments and other
income. Non-segment assets consist of corporate assets including cash, deferred
loan expenses and corporate offices and equipment among others. Non-property
specific revenues and expenses are not allocated to individual segments in
determining NOI

.

The accounting policies
of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant
accounting policies (see Note 2). The results of operations for all
acquisitions described in Note 3 are included in our consolidated results of
operations from the acquisition dates and are components of the appropriate
segments.  There are no intersegment sales or transfers.

Summary information for the reportable
segments (which excludes unconsolidated entities) during the years ended
December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 is as follows (in thousands):


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year Ended December 31, 2014:

Seniors
  Housing Triple-net

Seniors
  Housing Operating

Medical
  Facilities

Non-segment
  / Corporate

Total

Rental income

$

992,638

$

-

$

413,129

$

-

$

1,405,767

Resident fees and services

-

1,892,237

-

-

1,892,237

Interest income

32,255

2,119

3,293

-

37,667

Other income

2,973

3,215

1,010


7,875

Total revenues

1,027,866

1,897,571

417,432


3,343,546

Property operating expenses


1,266,308

136,318

-

1,403,358

Net operating income from continuing operations

1,027,134

631,263

281,114


1,940,188

Reconciling items:

Interest expense

38,460

113,099

32,904

296,576

481,039

(Loss) gain on derivatives, net

(1,770)


-

-

(1,495)

Depreciation and amortization

273,296

418,199

152,635

-

844,130

General and administrative

-

-

-

142,943

142,943

Transaction costs

45,146

16,880

7,512

-

69,538

(Loss) gain on extinguishment of debt, net




8,672

9,558

Other expenses

8,825

1,437

-

-

10,262

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and
  income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

663,079

80,990

87,658

(447,514)

384,213

Income tax expense

6,141

(3,047)

(1,827)

-

1,267

(Loss) income from unconsolidated entities

5,423

(38,204)

5,355

-

(27,426)

Income (loss) from continuing operations

674,643

39,739

91,186

(447,514)

358,054

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

7,135

-

-

-

7,135

Gain (loss) on real estate dispositions, net

146,205

-


-

147,111

Net income (loss)

$

827,983

$

39,739

$

92,092

$

(447,514)

$

512,300

Total assets

$

10,958,269

$

9,531,608

$

4,465,130

$

59,287

$

25,014,296


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year Ended December 31, 2013:

Seniors
  Housing Triple-net

Seniors
  Housing Operating

Medical
  Facilities

Non-segment
  / Corporate

Total

Rental income

$

866,138

$

-

$

361,451

$

-

$

1,227,589

Resident fees and services

-

1,616,290

-

-

1,616,290

Interest income

28,214


3,692

-

32,663

Other income

1,504


1,911


4,066

Total revenues

895,856

1,617,402

367,054


2,880,608

Property operating expenses

1,235

1,089,239

116,339

-

1,206,813

Net operating income from continuing operations

894,621

528,163

250,715


1,673,795

Reconciling items:

Interest expense

23,322

92,148

36,823

306,067

458,360

(Loss) gain on derivatives, net

4,877

(407)

-

-

4,470

Depreciation and amortization

249,913

478,007

137,880

-

865,800

General and administrative

-

-

-

108,318

108,318

Transaction costs

24,426

107,066

1,909

-

133,401

(Loss) gain on extinguishment of debt, net


(3,372)

-

2,423

(909)

Provision for loan losses

2,110

-

-

-

2,110

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and
  income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

589,933

(145,279)

74,103

(416,512)

102,245

Income tax expense

(1,817)

(5,337)

(270)

(67)

(7,491)

(Loss) income from unconsolidated entities

5,035

(22,695)

9,473

-

(8,187)

Income (loss) from continuing operations

593,151

(173,311)

83,306

(416,579)

86,567

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

57,742

-

(6,029)

-

51,713

Net income (loss)

$

650,893

$

(173,311)

$

77,277

$

(416,579)

$

138,280

Total assets

$

10,121,813

$

8,984,316

$

3,829,547

$

148,281

$

23,083,957


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year Ended December 31, 2012

Seniors
  Housing Triple-net

Seniors
  Housing Operating

Medical
  Facilities

Non-segment
  / Corporate

Total

Rental income

$

762,968

$

-

$

300,246

$

-

$

1,063,214

Resident fees and services

-

697,494

-

-

697,494

Interest income

30,654

6,208

2,203

-

39,065

Other income

2,471

-

1,888


5,271

Total revenues

796,093

703,702

304,337


1,805,044

Property operating expenses

1,082

471,678

95,229

-

567,989

Net operating income from continuing operations

795,011

232,024

209,108


1,237,055

Reconciling items:

Interest expense

1,745

67,524

28,878

263,418

361,565

Loss (gain) on derivatives, net


(1,921)

-

-

(1,825)

Depreciation and amortization

223,921

165,798

116,501

-

506,220

General and administrative

-

-

-

97,341

97,341

Transaction costs

35,705

12,756

13,148

-

61,609

Loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt, net

2,405

(2,697)

(483)

-

(775)

Provision for loan losses

27,008

-

-

-

27,008

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and
  income (loss) from unconsolidated entities

504,131

(9,436)

51,064

(359,847)

185,912

Income tax expense

(2,852)

(1,086)

(2,381)

(1,293)

(7,612)

(Loss) income from unconsolidated entities

(33)

(6,364)

8,879

-

2,482

Income from continuing operations

501,246

(16,886)

57,562

(361,140)

180,782

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

130,053

-

(15,995)

-

114,058

Net income (loss)

$

631,299

$

(16,886)

$

41,567

$

(361,140)

$

294,840

Our portfolio of properties and other investments are located in the United
States, the United Kingdom and Canada. Revenues and assets are attributed to
the country in which the property is physically located. The following is a
summary of geographic information for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands):

Year
  Ended

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

December
  30, 2012

Revenues:

Amount

%

Amount

%

Amount

%

United States

$

2,801,474

83.8%

$

2,489,196

86.4%

$

1,778,507

98.5%

International

542,072

16.2%

391,412

13.6%

26,537

1.5%

Total

$

3,343,546

100.0%

$

2,880,608

100.0%

$

1,805,044

100.0%

As
  of

December
  31, 2014

December
  31, 2013

Assets:

Amount

%

Amount

%

United States

$

20,728,477

82.9%

$

19,759,945

85.6%

International

4,285,819

17.1%

3,324,012

14.4%

Total

$

25,014,296

100.0%

$

23,083,957

100.0%


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

18.

Income Taxes and Distributions

We elected
to be taxed as a REIT commencing with our first taxable year.  To qualify as a REIT
for federal income tax purposes, at least 90% of taxable income (excluding 100%
of net capital gains) must be distributed to stockholders.  REITs that do not
distribute a certain amount of current year taxable income in the current year
are also subject to a 4% federal excise tax. The main differences between net
income for federal income tax purposes and financial statement purposes are the
recognition of straight-line rent for reporting purposes, basis differences in
acquisitions, recording of impairments, differing useful lives and depreciation
and amortization methods for real property and the provision for loan losses
for reporting purposes versus bad debt expense for tax purposes.

Cash
distributions paid to common stockholders, for federal income tax purposes, are
as follows

for the periods presented:

Year
  Ended December 31,




Per Share:

Ordinary income

$

1.7861

$

1.4928

$

1.5000

Return of capital

0.8368

1.4176

1.3376

Long-term capital gains

0.1638

0.0448

0.1176

Unrecaptured section 1250 gains

0.3933

0.1048

0.0048

Totals

$

3.1800

$

3.0600

$

2.9600

Our consolidated
provision for income taxes is as follows for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Current

$

2,672

$

12,389

$

4,785

Deferred

(3,939)

(4,898)

2,827

Totals

$

(1,267)

$

7,491

$

7,612

REITs generally are
not subject to U.S. federal income taxes on that portion of REIT taxable income
or capital gain that is distributed to stockholders.  For the tax year ended
December 31, 2014, as a result of acquisitions located in Canada and the United
Kingdom, we were subject to foreign income taxes under the respective tax laws
of these jurisdictions.

The provision for
income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily relates to state
taxes, foreign taxes, and taxes based on income generated by entities that are
structured as taxable REIT subsidiaries.  During 2014, we established certain
new wholly-owned direct and indirect subsidiaries in Luxembourg and Jersey and
transferred interests in certain foreign investments into this new holding
company structure.  The new structure includes a property holding company that
is tax resident in the United Kingdom.  No material adverse current tax
consequences in Luxembourg, Jersey or the United Kingdom resulted from the
creation of this new holding company structure and all of the subsidiary
entities in the structure are treated as disregarded entities of the company
for U.S. federal income tax purposes.  The company will reflect current and
deferred tax liabilities for any such withholding taxes incurred as a result of
this holding company structure in its consolidated financial statements.

For the tax year ended
December 31, 2014 and 2013, the Canadian and United Kingdom tax benefit amount
included in the consolidated provision for income taxes was $6,069,000 and
$484,000, respectively.  The income tax benefit in 2014 is due primarily to the
elimination of deferred tax liabilities in certain United Kingdom property
holding companies which offsets the current year tax provision.  For the tax
year ended December 31, 2012, the Canadian and United Kingdom tax expense
amount included in the consolidated provision for income taxes was $596,000.

A reconciliation of
income tax expense, which is computed by applying the federal corporate tax
rate for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, to the income tax
provision/(benefit) is as follows for the periods presented (dollars in
thousands):


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Year
  Ended December 31,




Tax at statutory rate on earnings from continuing operations
  before unconsolidated entities, noncontrolling interests and income taxes

$

178,862

$

51,020

$

64,979

Increase  / (decrease) in valuation allowance

(1)

9,133

18,444

9,234

Tax at statutory rate on earnings not subject to federal income
  taxes

(189,070)

(88,762)

(72,640)

Foreign permanent depreciation

4,383

22,313

-

Other differences

(4,575)

4,476

6,039

Totals

$

(1,267)

$

7,491

$

7,612

(1) Excluding purchase price accounting.

Each TRS and foreign
entity subject to income taxes is a tax paying component for purposes of
classifying deferred tax assets and liabilities. The tax effects of taxable and
deductible temporary differences, as well as tax attributes, are summarized as
follows for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Investments and property, primarily differences in investment
  basis, depreciation and amortization, the basis of land assets and the
  treatment of interests and certain costs

$

(1,020)

$

(34,236)

$

(2,144)

Operating loss and interest deduction carryforwards

47,528

67,215

8,552

Expense accruals and other

26,191

19,309

4,372

Valuation allowance

(85,207)

(71,955)

(12,199)

Totals

$

(12,508)

$

(19,667)

$

(1,419)

We assess the available
positive and negative evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income
will be generated to use the existing deferred tax assets.  As required under
the provisions of ASC 740, we apply the concepts on an entity-by-entity,
jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis.  With respect to the analysis of certain
entities in multiple jurisdictions, a significant piece of objective negative
evidence evaluated was the cumulative loss incurred over the three-year period
ended December 31, 2014.  Such objective evidence limits the ability to consider
other subjective evidence such as our projections for future growth.

On the basis of the
evaluations performed as required by the codification, valuation allowances
totaling $85,207,000 were recorded on U.S. taxable REIT subsidiaries as well as
entities in other jurisdictions to limit the deferred tax assets to the amount
that we believe is more likely that not realizable.  However, the amount of the
deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted if (i) estimates of
future taxable income during the carryforward period are reduced or increased
or (ii) objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no
longer present (and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such
as our projections for growth).  The valuation allowance rollforward is
summarized as follows for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,




Beginning balance

$

71,955

$

12,199

$

2,965

Additions:

Purchase price accounting

4,119

41,312

-

Expense

9,133

18,444

9,234

Ending balance

$

85,207

$

71,955

$

12,199

As a result of certain acquisitions, we are subject to
corporate level taxes for any related asset dispositions that may occur during
the ten-year period immediately after such assets were owned by a C corporation
(“built-in gains tax”). The amount of income


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

potentially
subject to this special corporate level tax is generally equal to the lesser of
(a) the excess of the fair value of the asset over its adjusted tax basis as of
the date it became a REIT asset, or (b) the actual amount of gain. Some but not
all gains recognized during this period of time could be offset by available
net operating losses and capital loss carryforwards.  During the year ended
December 31, 2014, we acquired certain additional assets with built-in gains as
of the date of acquisition that could be subject to the built-in gains tax if
disposed of prior to the expiration of the applicable ten-year period.  We have
not recorded a deferred tax liability as a result of the potential built-in
gains tax based on our intentions with respect to such properties and available
tax planning strategies.

Under the provisions of the REIT Investment
Diversification and Empowerment Act of 2007 (“RIDEA”), for taxable years
beginning after July 30, 2008, the REIT may lease “qualified health care
properties” on an arm’s-length basis to a TRS if the property is operated on
behalf of such subsidiary by a person who qualifies as an “eligible independent
contractor.” Generally, the rent received from the TRS will meet the related
party rent exception and will be treated as “rents from real property.” A
“qualified health care property” includes real property and any personal
property that is, or is necessary or incidental to the use of, a hospital,
nursing facility (our long-term/post-acute care facilities), assisted living
facility, congregate care facility, qualified continuing care facility, or
other licensed facility which extends medical or nursing or ancillary services
to patients.  We have entered into various joint ventures that were structured
under RIDEA.  Resident level rents and related operating expenses for these
facilities are reported in the consolidated financial statements and are
subject to federal and state income taxes as the operations of such facilities
are included in a TRS.  Certain net operating loss carryforwards could be
utilized to offset taxable income in future years.

Given the applicable statute of limitations, we generally
are subject to audit by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the year ended
December 31, 2011 and subsequent years, by the Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”)
and provincial authorities for acquisitions subsequent to May 2102, and by Her
Majesty Revenue & Customs (“HMRC”) for acquisitions subsequent to August
2012.  The statute of limitations may vary in the states in which we own
properties or conduct business.  We do not expect to be subject to audit by
state taxing authorities for any year prior to the year ended December 31,
2008.

At December 31, 2014, we had a net operating loss
(“NOL”) carryforward related to the REIT of $378,791,000.  These amounts can be
used to offset future taxable income (and/or taxable income for prior years if
an audit determines that tax is owed), if any. The REIT will be entitled to
utilize NOLs and tax credit carryforwards only to the extent that REIT taxable
income exceeds our deduction for dividends paid.  The NOL carryforwards will
expire through 2034.

At December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, we had a net operating
loss carryforward related to Canadian entities of $32,085,000, $50,958,000 and
$4,275,000, respectively.  These Canadian losses have a 20-year carryforward
period.  At December 31, 2014 and 2013, we had a net operating loss
carryforward related to United Kingdom entities of $177,079,000 and
$238,741,000, respectively.  These United Kingdom losses do not have a finite
carryforward period.  On the basis of evaluations performed as required by the
codification, valuation allowances were recorded to limit the deferred tax
assets for the related net operating loss carryforwards to the amount that we
believe is more likely than not realizable.

We apply the rules
under ASC 740-10 “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” for uncertain tax
positions using a “more likely than not” recognition threshold for tax
positions. Pursuant to these rules, we will initially recognize the financial statement
effects of a tax position when it is more likely than not, based on the
technical merits of the tax position, that such a position will be sustained
upon examination by the relevant tax authorities. If the tax benefit meets the
“more likely than not” threshold, the measurement of the tax benefit will be
based on our estimate of the ultimate tax benefit to be sustained if audited by
the taxing authority.  The following table summarizes the activity related to
our unrecognized tax benefits for the periods presented (dollars in thousands):

Year
  Ended December 31,



Gross unrecognized tax benefits at beginning of year

$

6,413

$

6,098

Increases (decreases) in unrecognized tax benefits related to a
  prior year

-


Increases (decreases) in unrecognized tax benefits related to
  the current year

-


Lapse in statute of limitations for assessment

(5,556)

(21)

Gross unrecognized tax benefits at end of year

$


$

6,413

The balance of our
unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $857,000 and
$6,413,000, respectively.  During 2014, $6,976,000 (including penalties and
interest) relating to the April 1, 2011 Genesis Healthcare Corporation transaction
(“Genesis Acquisition”) expired due to the applicable statute of limitations. 
As a part of the Genesis Acquisition, we received a full


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

indemnification from FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC covering
income taxes or other taxes as well as  interest and penalties relating to tax
positions taken by FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC prior to the acquisition. 
Accordingly, an offsetting indemnification asset was recorded in receivables
and other assets on the consolidated balance sheet and was reversed during
2014.

There is no amount of
unrecognized tax benefits, currently accrued for, that would have a material
impact on the effective tax rate to the extent that would be recognized.  There
were insignificant uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2014 for which it
is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits would
decrease during 2015.  Interest and penalties totaled $137,000 and $253,000,
respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2014 and are included in income
tax expense.

19. Retirement Arrangements

Under
the retirement plan and trust (the “401(k) Plan”), eligible employees may make
contributions, and we may make matching contributions and a profit sharing
contribution. Our contributions to the 401(k) Plan totaled $2,701,000,
$2,562,000, and $2,140,000 in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

We
have a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”), a non-qualified defined
benefit pension plan, which provides one executive officer with supplemental
deferred retirement benefits. The SERP provides an opportunity for the
participant to receive retirement benefits that cannot be paid under our
tax-qualified plans because of the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Benefits are based on compensation
and length of service and the SERP is unfunded. Benefit payments are expected
to total $7,128,000 during the next five fiscal years. We use a December 31
measurement date for the SERP. The accrued liability on our balance sheet for
the SERP was $6,882,000 at December 31, 2014 ($6,453,000 at December 31,
2013).

On
April 13, 2014, George L. Chapman, formerly the Chairman, Chief Executive
Officer and President of the Company, informed the Board of Directors that he
wished to retire from the Company, effective immediately.  As a result of Mr.
Chapman’s retirement, general and administrative expenses for the year ended
December 31, 2014 included charges of $19,688,000 related to: (i) the
acceleration of $9,223,000 of deferred compensation for restricted stock; and
(ii) consulting, retirement payments and other costs of $10,465,000.

20.
Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)

The
following is a summary of our unaudited quarterly results of operations for the
years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands, except per share
data). The sum of individual quarterly amounts may not agree to the annual
amounts included in the consolidated statements of income due to rounding.

Year
  Ended December 31, 2014

1st
  Quarter

2nd
  Quarter

3rd
  Quarter

4th
  Quarter

Revenues

$

801,807

$

826,446

$

847,523

$

867,770

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders

50,022

71,829

136,255

188,639

Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders per share:

Basic

$

0.17

$

0.24

$

0.44

$

0.58

Diluted

0.17

0.24

0.44

0.57

Year
  Ended December 31, 2013

1st
  Quarter

2nd
  Quarter

(2)

3rd
  Quarter

4th
  Quarter

Revenues - as reported

$

633,915

$

682,125

$

786,930

$

788,577

Discontinued operations

(4,129)

(3,592)

(3,217)

-

Revenues - as adjusted

(1)

$

629,786

$

678,533

$

783,713

$

788,577

Net income attributable to common stockholders

$

55,058

$

(8,508)

$

20,691

$

11,473

Net income attributable to common stockholders per share:

Basic

$

0.21

$

(0.03)

$

0.07

$

0.04

Diluted

0.21

(0.03)

0.07

0.04

(1) We have reclassified the income attributable to the
  properties sold prior to or held for sale at December 31, 2013 to
  discontinued operations. See Note 5 for additional information.

(2) The decrease in net income and amounts per share are
  primarily attributable to gains on sales of real estate of $82,492,000 for
  the first quarter as compared to losses of $29,997,000 for the second
  quarter.


HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and

Financial
Disclosure

Not
applicable.

Item 9A.

Controls and
Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

An
evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of
our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the
period covered by this report.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). The Company’s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. The Company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

Management
has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2014 based on the criteria established by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013
framework) in a report entitled Internal Control — Integrated Framework.

The
scope of management’s assessment as of December 31, 2014 did not include an
assessment of the internal control over financial reporting for the Gracewell
Healthcare acquisition because the business combination occurred during the
year ended December 31, 2014. The acquired businesses represent 1% of total
assets at December 31, 2014 and less than 1% of revenues and net operating
income for the year then ended. The scope of management’s assessment on
internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2015
will include the aforementioned acquired operations.

Based
on this assessment, using the criteria above, management concluded that the
Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting was effective as
of December 31, 2014.

The
independent registered public accounting firm of Ernst & Young LLP, as
auditors of the Company’s consolidated financial statements, has issued an
attestation report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

Changes in Internal Control over
Financial Reporting

No
change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)
occurred during the fourth quarter of the one-year period covered by this
report that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect,
our internal control over financial reporting.


Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The Board of Directors
and Shareholders of Health Care REIT, Inc.

We have audited
Health Care REIT, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(the COSO criteria, 2013 framework). Health Care REIT, Inc.’s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting,
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control
over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As indicated in the
accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting,
management’s assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of the
Gracewell Healthcare acquisition, which is included in the 2014 consolidated
financial statements of Health Care REIT, Inc. and cumulatively constitute 1%
of total assets at December 31, 2014 and less than 1% of revenues and net
operating income for the year then ended. Our audit of the internal control
over financial reporting of Health Care REIT, Inc. also did not include an
evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of the
aforementioned relationship.

In our opinion, Health
Care REIT, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on the COSO
criteria.

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of
Health Care REIT, Inc. as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related
consolidated statements of comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014 and our report
dated February 20, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/

Ernst &
Young LLP

Toledo

, Ohio

February 20, 2015

Item 9B.

Other Information

Preferred Stock – Certificates of Elimination

On February 18, 2015, we filed certificates of
elimination with the Delaware Secretary of State, which became effective upon
filing, to eliminate from our Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as
amended, all matters set forth in the certificates of designation for the
Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Series A (the “Series A Stock”), and the
6% Series H Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred Stock (the “Series
H Stock”). No shares of the Series A Stock or the Series H Stock were issued or
outstanding at the time of the filing of the certificates of elimination.


PART III

Item 10.

Directors,
Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the headings “Election of Directors,” “Corporate Governance,”
“Executive Officers,” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and
Certain Beneficial Owners — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) prior to
April 30, 2015.

We
have adopted a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics that applies to our
directors, officers and employees. The code is posted on the Internet at
www.hcreit.com/investor-relations/governance. Any amendment to, or waivers
from, the code that relate to any officer or director of the Company will be
promptly disclosed on the Internet at www.hcreit.com.

In
addition, the Board has adopted charters for the Audit, Compensation and
Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees. These charters are posted on the
Internet at www.hcreit.com/investor-relations/governance.

The
information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual
reference only.

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation

The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the headings “Executive Compensation” and “Director
Compensation” in our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the
Commission prior to April 30, 2015.

Item 12.

Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

and Related Stockholder Matters

The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the headings “Security Ownership of Directors and Management
and Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in
our definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior
to April 30, 2015.

Item 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director

Independence

The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the headings “Corporate Governance — Independence and
Meetings” and “Security Ownership of Directors and Management and Certain
Beneficial Owners — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our
definitive proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to
April 30, 2015.

Item 14.

Principal
Accounting Fees and Services

The
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the heading “Ratification of the Appointment of the
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in our definitive proxy
statement, which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 30,
2015.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a) 1.

Our Consolidated Financial Statements
are included in Part II,

Item 8:

Report

of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated
  Balance Sheets – December 31, 2014 and 2013


Consolidated
  Statements of  Comprehensive Income — Years ended  December 31, 2014, 2013
  and  2012


Consolidated
  Statements of  Equity — Years ended  December 31, 2014, 2013 and  2012


Consolidated
  Statements of  Cash Flows — Years ended  December 31, 2014, 2013 and  2012


Notes
  to Consolidated Financial Statements


2.

The following Financial Statement
Schedules are included in

Item 15(c):

III – Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

IV – Mortgage Loans on Real Estate

The financial statement schedule required by Item15(a) (Schedule
II, Valuation and Qualifying Accounts) is included in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

3.

Exhibit Index:

The information required by this item is set forth on the Exhibit
Index that follows the Financial Statement Schedules to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

(b)

Exhibits:

The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index are either filed with
this Form 10-K or incorporated by reference in accordance with
Rule 12b-32 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

(c)

Financial
Statement Schedules:

Financial
statement schedules are included beginning on page 111.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: 
February 20, 2015

HEALTH
CARE REIT, INC.

By:

/s/  T

homas J. DeRosa

Thomas
J. DeRosa,

Chief
Executive Officer and Director

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on February
20, 2015 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities indicated.

/s/

Jeffrey H. Donahue **

/s/

Judith C. Pelham **

Jeffrey H. Donahue, Chairman
  of the Board

Judith
  C. Pelham, Director

/s/

William C. Ballard, Jr.**

/s/

Sergio D. Rivera**

William
  C. Ballard, Jr., Director

Sergio
  D. Rivera, Director

/s/

Peter J. Grua **

/s/

R. Scott Trumbull**

Peter
  J. Grua, Director

R.
  Scott Trumbull, Director

/s/

Fred S. Klipsch **

/s/

Thomas J. DeRosa

Fred
  S. Klipsch, Director

Thomas
  J. DeRosa, Chief Executive Officer

and
  Director

(Principal
  Executive Officer)

/s/

Geoffrey G. Meyers**

/s/

Scott A. Estes**

Geoffrey
  G. Meyers, Director

Scott A.
  Estes, Executive Vice President and Chief

Financial
  Officer (Principal Financial Officer)

/s/  T

imothy J. Naughton**

/s/

Paul D. Nungester, Jr.**

Timothy J.
  Naughton, Director

Paul
  D. Nungester, Jr., Senior Vice President and

Corporate
  Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)

/s/

Sharon M. Oster **

**By:            /s/

Thomas J. DeRosa

Sharon
  M. Oster, Director

Thomas
  J. DeRosa, Attorney-in-Fact


Health Care REIT, Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and
  Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2014

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount at Which
  Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Building &
  Improvements

Cost Capitalized
  Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Building &
  Improvements

Accumulated Depreciation

(1)

Year Acquired

Year Built

Address

Seniors Housing Triple-Net:

Lafayette, LA

$

-

$

1,928

$

10,483

$


$

1,928

$

10,509

$

3,246



204 Energy Parkway

Tulsa, OK

-

3,003

6,025


3,003

6,045

2,603



329 S. 79th E. Ave.

Lakeway, TX

-

5,142

18,574

2,001

5,142

20,575




2000 Medical Dr

Abilene, TX

-


20,987

-


20,987




6565 Central Park Boulevard

Abilene, TX

-


8,187

-


8,187




1250 East N 10th Street

Aboite Twp, IN

-

1,770

19,930

1,601

1,770

21,531

2,352



611 W County Line Rd South

Agawam, MA

-


16,112

2,134


18,246

6,259



1200 Suffield St.

Agawam, MA

-

1,230

13,618


1,230

14,211

1,548



61 Cooper Street

Agawam, MA

-


15,304



15,596

1,643



55 Cooper Street

Agawam, MA

-


10,661



10,697

1,191



464 Main Street

Agawam, MA

-


10,562



10,607

1,181



65 Cooper Street

Akron, OH

-


8,219



8,710

2,346



721 Hickory St.

Alexandria

-


7,535



7,764

1,853



209 Merriman Road

Alexandria, IN

-


6,495

-


6,495




1912 South Park Avenue

Alliance, OH

-


7,723



7,830

1,995



1785 Freshley Ave.

Albertville, AL

2,015


6,203



6,371

1,046



151 Woodham Dr.

Ames, IA

-


8,870

-


8,870

1,118



1325 Coconino Rd.

Anderson, SC

-


6,290



6,709

2,515



311 Simpson Rd.

Annapolis, MD

-

1,010

24,825


1,010

24,976

2,542



35 Milkshake Lane

Ansted, WV

-


14,113



14,221

1,422



106 Tyree Street,   P.O. Drawer 400

Andover, MA

-

1,310

12,647


1,310

12,674

1,455



89 Morton Street

Avon Lake, OH

-


10,421



10,562

1,278



345 Lear Rd.

Apple Valley, CA

10,632


16,639



16,716

2,911



11825 Apple Valley Rd.

Asheboro, NC

-


5,032



5,197

1,633



514 Vision Dr.

Aspen Hill, MD

-

-

9,008

1,181

-

10,188

1,081



3227 Bel Pre Road

Asheville, NC

-


3,489

-


3,489

1,536



4 Walden Ridge Dr.

Asheville, NC

-


1,955



2,306




308 Overlook Rd.

Atlanta, GA

7,557

2,058

14,914

1,101

2,080

15,993

10,585



1460 S Johnson Ferry Rd.

Austin, TX

18,729


9,520

1,152


10,667

4,438



12429 Scofield Farms Dr.

Aurora, OH

-

1,760

14,148


1,760

14,254

1,664



505 S. Chillicothe Rd

Aurora, CO

-

2,600

5,906

7,915

2,600

13,821

4,064



14101 E. Evans Ave.

Aurora, CO

-

2,440

28,172

-

2,440

28,172

6,748



14211 E. Evans Ave.

Avon, IN

-

1,830

14,470

-

1,830

14,470

1,904



182 S Country RD. 550E

Avon, IN

-


19,453

-


19,453




10307 E. CR 100 N

Aventura, FL

-

4,540

33,986


4,540

34,424

2,146



2777 NE 183rd Street

Ayer, MA

-

-

22,074


-

22,077

2,260



400 Groton Road

Baltimore, MD

-

1,350

14,884


1,350

15,204

1,624



115 East Melrose Avenue

Baltimore, MD

-


5,039



5,186




6000 Bellona Avenue

Benbrook, TX

-

1,550

13,553


1,550

14,322

1,315



4242 Bryant Irvin Road

Burnaby, BC

9,998

9,094

16,515

-

9,094

16,515




7195 Canada Way

Beachwood, OH

-

1,260

23,478

-

1,260

23,478

8,393



3800 Park East Drive

Boardman, OH

-

1,200

12,800

-

1,200

12,800

2,585



8049 South Ave.

Brandon, MS

-

1,220

10,241

-

1,220

10,241

1,169



140 Castlewoods Blvd

Brecksville, OH

-


19,363

-


19,363




8757 Brecksville Road

Bedford, NH

-

2,250

28,831


2,250

28,836

2,936



25 Ridgewood Road

Bellingham, WA

8,580

1,500

19,861


1,507

19,975

3,380



4415 Columbine Dr.

Brookfield, WI

-

1,300

12,830

-

1,300

12,830




1185 Davidson Road

Brooks, AB

2,478


5,906

-


5,906




951 Cassils Road West

Brookville, IN

-


13,467

-


13,467




11049 State Road 101

Bowling Green, KY

-

3,800

26,700


3,800

26,849

4,409



1300 Campbell Lane

Bellingham, MA

-

9,270

-

-

9,270

-

-



Maple Street and High Street

Bethel Park, PA

-

1,700

16,007

-

1,700

16,007

2,525



5785 Baptist Road

Burlington, NC

-


4,297



5,004

1,545



3619 S. Mebane St.

Burlington, NC

-


5,467

-


5,467

1,735



3615 S. Mebane St.

Burlington, NC

-


11,263

-


11,263




2766 Grand Oaks Blvd

Bluefield, VA

-


12,463



12,495

1,309



Westwood Medical Park

Boca Raton, FL

-

1,440

31,048


1,440

31,941

1,955



1080 Northwest 15th Street

Braintree, MA

-


7,157

1,290


8,447

8,028



1102 Washington St.

Bradenton, FL

-


3,298

-


3,298

1,685



6101 Pointe W. Blvd.

Bradenton, FL

-


9,953

-


9,953




2800 60th Avenue West

Brick, NJ

-

1,290

25,247


1,290

25,525

2,268



458 Jack Martin Blvd.

Brick, NJ

-

1,170

17,372

1,102

1,180

18,464

1,916



515 Jack Martin Blvd

Brick, NJ

-


17,125



17,236

1,772



1594 Route 88

Brookline, MA

-

2,760

9,217

3,369

2,760

12,586

1,327



30 Webster Street

Brooklyn Park, MD

-

1,290

16,329


1,290

16,358

1,732



613 Hammonds Lane

Burleson, TX

-


13,985



14,235

1,391



300 Huguley Boulevard

Burleson, TX

-

3,150

10,437

-

3,150

10,437




621 Old Highway 1187

Bartlesville, OK

-


1,380

-


1,380




5420 S.E. Adams Blvd.

Broadview Heights, OH

-


12,400

2,393


14,793

4,705



2801 E. Royalton Rd.

Baltic, OH

-


8,709



8,898

2,226



130 Buena Vista St.

Braintree, England

-

-

16,789

-

-

16,789




Meadow Park Tortoiseshell Way

Bremerton, WA

-


2,210



2,354




3231 Pine Road

Bremerton, WA

-


10,420



10,613

1,300



3201 Pine Road NE

Bremerton, WA

-


2,899

-


2,899




3210 Rickey Road

Beattyville, KY

-


6,900



7,560

1,935



249 E. Main St.

Burlington, NJ

-

1,700

12,554


1,700

13,020

1,552



115 Sunset Road

Burlington, NJ

-

1,170

19,205


1,170

19,372

1,916



2305 Rancocas Road

Beverly Hills, CA

9,623

6,000

13,385

-

6,000

13,385




220 N Clark Drive

Bridgewater, NJ

-

1,850

3,050

-

1,850

3,050

1,244



875 Route 202/206 North

Bridgewater, NJ

-

1,730

48,201


1,746

49,125

5,042



2005 Route 22 West

Bridgewater, NJ

-

1,800

31,810


1,800

32,132

2,817



680 US-202/206 North

Bexleyheath, England

-

4,736

13,646

-

4,736

13,646




35 West Street

Byrdstown, TN

-

-

2,414


-

2,683

1,750



129 Hillcrest Dr.

Cambridge, MD

-


15,843



16,050

1,650



525 Glenburn Avenue

Calgary, AB

20,989

2,793

51,019

-

2,793

51,019




1729-90th Avenue SW

Calgary, AB

34,791

5,450

83,741

-

5,450

83,741




500 Midpark Way SE

Canton, MA

-


8,201



8,464

4,515



One Meadowbrook Way

Canton, NC

-


5,357

-


5,357




27 North Main Street

Columbia Heights, MN

-


14,175



14,338

1,223



3807 Hart Boulevard

Cleburne, TX

-


5,369

-


5,369

1,089



402 S Colonial Drive

Columbus, IN

-


3,190

-


3,190




2564 Foxpointe Dr.

Concord, NC

-


3,921



3,976

1,400



2452 Rock Hill Church Rd.

Cape May Court House, NJ

-

1,440

17,002

-

1,440

17,002




144 Magnolia Drive

Centreville, MD

-


14,602



14,843

1,562



205 Armstrong Avenue

Congleton, England

-

2,570

6,465

-

2,570

6,465




Rood Hill

Chickasha, OK

-


1,395

-


1,395




801 Country Club Rd.

Chatham, VA

-


14,046

-


14,046




100 Rorer Street

Chicago, IL

-

1,800

19,256

-

1,800

19,256

1,382



6700 South Keating Avenue

Chicago, IL

-

2,900

17,016

-

2,900

17,016

1,238



4239 North Oak Park Avenue

Chelmsford, MA


1,040

10,951

1,499

1,040

12,450

3,390



4 Technology Dr.

Chapel Hill, NC

-


2,646



3,429

1,188



100 Lanark Rd.

Chapel Hill, NC

-


7,512

-


7,512




405 Smith Level Road

Charleston, WV

-


17,575



17,873

1,772



1000 Association Drive, North Gate Business Park

Charleston, WV

-


5,430



5,444




699 South Park Road

Cinnaminson, NJ

-


6,663



6,812




1700 Wynwood Drive

Clarks Summit, PA

-


11,179



11,194

1,234



100 Edella Road

Clarks Summit, PA

-


6,529



6,583




150 Edella Road

Columbia, TN

-


2,295

-


2,295

1,005



5011 Trotwood Ave.

Columbia, TN

-


3,787

-


3,787

1,588



1410 Trotwood Ave.

Clevedon, England

-

3,583

21,374

-

3,583

21,374




18/19 Elton Road

Cleveland, TN

-


5,000



5,122

1,951



2750 Executive Park N.W.

Colchester, CT

-


4,860



5,355




59 Harrington  Court

Clinton, MD

-

2,330

20,876


2,330

21,467

1,559



7520 Surratts Road

Clarksville, TN

-


2,292

-


2,292




2183 Memorial Dr.

Claremore, OK

-


1,427

6,130


7,557




1605 N. Hwy. 88

Cloquet, MN

-


4,660



4,780




705 Horizon Circle

Charles Town, WV

-


22,834



22,863

2,264



219 Prospect Ave

Clayton, NC

-


15,741

-


15,741




84 Johnson Estate Road

Columbia, SC

-

2,120

4,860

5,709

2,120

10,569

3,410



731 Polo Rd.

Camrose, AB

16,885

1,215

24,667

-

1,215

24,667




6821-50 Avenue

Concord, NH

-


18,423



18,869

1,874



20 Maitland Street

Concord, NH

-

1,760

43,179


1,760

43,747

4,352



239 Pleasant Street

Concord, NH

-


3,041



3,381




227 Pleasant Street

Conroe, TX

-


7,771

-


7,771

1,049



903 Longmire Road

Cobham, England

-

12,385

31,556

-

12,385

31,556

1,170



Redhill Road

Columbus, OH

-


5,170

8,255

1,070

12,885

3,269



1425 Yorkland Rd.

Columbus, OH

(0)

1,010

5,022

-

1,010

5,022

1,405



1850 Crown Park Ct.

Columbus, OH

-

1,010

4,931

13,620

1,860

17,701

4,435



5700 Karl Rd.

Cape Coral, FL

-


3,281

-


3,281

1,162



911 Santa Barbara Blvd.

Cape Coral, FL

9,065


18,868

-


18,868

1,263



831 Santa Barbara Boulevard

Coppell, TX

-

1,550

8,386

-

1,550

8,386




1530 East Sandy Lake Road

Cedar Grove, NJ

-

1,830

10,939


1,830

10,949

1,214



25 East Lindsley Road

Cedar Grove, NJ

-

2,850

27,737


2,850

27,757

2,895



536 Ridge Road

Carrollton, TX

-

4,280

31,444


4,280

32,178




2105 North Josey Lane

Cortland, NY

-


18,041



18,099

1,050



839 Bennie Road

Cary, NC

-

1,500

4,350


1,500

5,336

2,184



111 MacArthur

Carson City, NV

-


8,238



8,277




1111 W. College Parkway

Colts Neck, NJ

-


14,733



15,242

1,656



3 Meridian Circle

Chester, VA

-

1,320

18,136

-

1,320

18,136




12001 Iron Bridge Road

Citrus Heights, CA

14,747

2,300

31,876


2,300

32,383

5,577



7418 Stock Ranch Rd.

Canton, OH

-


2,098

-


2,098




1119 Perry Dr., N.W.

Castleton, IN

-


15,144

-


15,144




8405 Clearvista Lake

Catonsville, MD

-

1,330

15,003


1,330

15,552

1,645



16 Fusting Avenue

Crawfordsville, IN

-


17,239

-


17,239




517 Concord Road

Conyers, GA

-

2,740

19,302


2,740

19,529

1,205



1504 Renaissance Drive

Dedham, MA

-

1,360

9,830

-

1,360

9,830

3,737



10 CareMatrix Dr.

Denton, TX

-

1,760

8,305

-

1,760

8,305




2125 Brinker Rd

Dundalk, MD

-

1,770

32,047


1,770

32,831

3,305



7232 German Hill Road

Daniels, WV

-


17,320



17,370

1,732



1631 Ritter Drive

Danville, VA

-


3,954



4,676

1,506



149 Executive Ct.

Danville, VA

-


8,440

-


8,440




508 Rison Street

Dover, DE

-


7,717



7,755




1203 Walker Road

Dover, DE

-


22,266



22,356

2,278



1080 Silver Lake Blvd.

Daphne, AL

-

2,880

8,670


2,880

8,797




27440 County Road 13

Durham, NC

-

1,476

10,659

2,196

1,476

12,855

9,437



4434 Ben Franklin Blvd.

Dresher, PA

-

2,060

40,236


2,068

40,786

4,169



1405 N. Limekiln Pike

Defuniak Springs, FL

-

1,350

10,250

-

1,350

10,250

2,456



785 S. 2nd St.

Drayton Valley, AB

-


12,165

-


12,165




3902-47 Street

Eastbourne, England

-

5,141

30,858

-

5,141

30,858




Carew Road

Elizabethton, TN

-


4,604



4,940

1,898



1200 Spruce Lane

Edmond, OK

-


8,388

-


8,388




15401 North Pennsylvania Avenue

Edmond, OK

-

1,810

14,849

-

1,810

14,849




1225 Lakeshore Drive

Eden, NC

-


4,877

-


4,877

1,569



314 W. Kings Hwy.

Englewood, NJ

-


4,514



4,531




333 Grand Avenue

El Paso, TX

-

1,420

12,394

-

1,420

12,394




435 S Mesa Hills Drive

Elizabeth City, NC

-


2,760

2,011


4,771

1,816



400 Hastings Lane

Emeryville, CA

-

2,560

57,491

-

2,560

57,491




1440 40th Street

Englishtown, NJ

-


12,520



13,161

1,447



49 Lasatta Ave

East Norriton, PA

-

1,200

28,129


1,210

28,866

2,993



2101 New Hope St

Erin, TN

-


8,060



8,194

3,004



242 Rocky Hollow Rd.

Easton, MD

-


24,539

-


24,539

2,579



610 Dutchman's Lane

East Brunswick, NJ

-

1,380

34,229


1,380

34,717

3,010



606 Cranbury Rd.

Eatontown, NJ

-

1,190

23,358


1,190

23,426

2,438



3 Industrial Way East

Everett, WA

-

1,400

5,476

-

1,400

5,476

2,298



2015 Lake Heights Dr.

Fanwood, NJ

-

2,850

55,175


2,850

55,750

4,786



295 South Ave.

Fairfield, CA

-

1,460

14,040

1,541

1,460

15,581

5,162



3350 Cherry Hills St.

Farnborough, England

-

2,570

7,244

-

2,570

7,244




Bruntile Close, Reading Road

Franconia, NH

-


11,320



11,390

1,177



93 Main Street

Fairhope, AL

-


9,119

-


9,119




50 Spring Run Road

Fishers, IN

-

1,500

14,500

-

1,500

14,500

1,907



9745 Olympia Dr.

Franklin, NH

-


15,210



15,257

1,562



7 Baldwin Street

Follansbee, WV

-


27,670



27,719

2,795



840 Lee Road

Fall River, MA

-


5,829

4,856


10,685

4,457



1748 Highland Ave.

Fall River, MA

-


34,715



34,923

3,551



4901 North Main Street

Florence, NJ

-


2,978

-


2,978

1,049



901 Broad St.

Florence, AL

7,085


13,049



13,177

2,197



3275 County Road 47

Flourtown, PA

-

1,800

14,830


1,800

15,033

1,587



350 Haws Lane

Flower Mound, TX

-

1,800

8,414

-

1,800

8,414




4141 Long Prairie Road

Farmington, MI

-


6,615

-


6,615




34225 Grand River Avenue

Findlay, OH

-


1,800

-


1,800




725 Fox Run Rd.

Fresno, CA

-

2,500

35,800


2,500

35,918

5,905



7173 North Sharon Avenue

Folsom, CA

-

-

33,600

-

1,582

32,018

1,170



330 Montrose Drive

Forest City, NC

-


4,497

-


4,497

1,463



493 Piney Ridge Rd.

Fredericksburg, VA

-

1,000

20,000

1,200

1,000

21,200

5,242



3500 Meekins Dr.

Fredericksburg, VA

-


28,611



28,646

2,868



11 Dairy Lane

Fredericksburg, VA

-

3,700

22,016


3,700

22,075

1,284



12100 Chancellors Village

Fredericksburg, VA

-

1,130

23,214

-

1,130

23,214




140 Brimley Drive

Fremont, CA

19,186

3,400

25,300

1,821

3,456

27,065

6,710



2860 Country Dr.

Fair Lawn, NJ

-

2,420

24,504


2,420

24,948

2,564



12-15 Saddle River Road

Fort Ashby, WV

-


19,566



19,689

1,944



Diane Drive, Box 686

Fort Wayne, IN

-


8,232

-


8,232

1,686



2626 Fairfield Ave.

Fort Worth, TX

-


13,615

5,086


18,701

1,818



425 Alabama Ave.

Fayetteville, GA

-


12,665



12,974




1967 Highway 54 West

Gardner, MA

-


10,210



10,237

1,107



32 Hospital Hill Road

Grafton, WV

-


18,824



18,861

1,874



8 Rose Street

Greenfield, WI

-

-

15,204

-


14,314




5017 South 110th Street

Gig Harbor, WA

5,358

1,560

15,947


1,583

15,986

2,636



3213 45th St. Court NW

Granger, IN

-

1,670

21,280

2,401

1,670

23,681

2,536



6330 North Fir Rd

Glen Mills, PA

-


9,110



9,275

1,006



549 Baltimore Pike

Glenside, PA

-

1,940

16,867


1,940

17,020

1,786



850 Paper Mill Road

Gambrills, MD

-

2,500

16,726

-

2,500

16,726




1219 Waugh Chapel Road

Greendale, WI

-

2,060

35,383


2,060

35,905

2,612



5700 Mockingbird Lane

Greeneville, TN

-


8,290



8,797

2,629



106 Holt Ct.

Greenville, SC

-


4,750

-


4,750

1,432



23 Southpointe Dr.

Groton, CT

-

2,430

19,941


2,430

20,836

2,292



1145 Poquonnock Road

Graceville, FL

-


13,000

-


13,000

3,029



1083 Sanders Ave.

Granbury, TX

-

2,040

30,670


2,040

30,819

3,003



100 Watermark Boulevard

Granbury, TX

-

2,550

2,940


2,550

3,340




916 East Highway 377

Gardnerville, NV

12,399

1,143

10,831


1,164

11,586

8,166



1565-A Virginia Ranch Rd.

Georgetown, TX

-


2,100

-


2,100




2600 University Dr., E.

Grand Ledge, MI

7,748

1,150

16,286

5,119

1,150

21,405

1,986



4775 Village Dr

Greenville, NC

-


4,393



4,561

1,435



2715 Dickinson Ave.

Greensboro, NC

-


2,970



3,524

1,164



5809 Old Oak Ridge Rd.

Greensboro, NC

-


5,507

1,013


6,520

2,135



4400 Lawndale Dr.

Greensboro, NC

-


6,634

-


6,634




5918 Netfield Road

Gastonia, NC

-


6,129

-


6,129

1,934



1680 S. New Hope Rd.

Gastonia, NC

-


3,096



3,118

1,053



1717 Union Rd.

Gastonia, NC

-


5,029



5,149

1,639



1750 Robinwood Rd.

Glastonbury, CT

-

1,950

9,532


2,360

10,031

1,116



72 Salmon Brook Drive

Gettysburg, PA

-


8,913



9,003

1,022



867 York Road

Grass Valley, CA

4,340


7,667



7,722




415 Sierra College Drive

Greenwood, IN

-

1,550

22,770


1,550

22,851

2,540



2339 South SR 135

Hamilton, NJ

-


4,469

-


4,469

1,559



1645 Whitehorse-Mercerville Rd.

Harriman, TN

-


8,060



8,218

3,188



240 Hannah Rd.

Hattiesburg, MS

-


15,518



15,694

1,643



217 Methodist Hospital Blvd

Herne Bay, England

-

2,399

30,751

-

2,399

30,751

1,528



165 Reculver Road

Hockessin, DE

-

1,120

6,308

-

1,120

6,308




100 Saint Claire Drive

Hickory, NC

-





1,219




2530 16th St. N.E.

Haddonfield, NJ

-

-

-

2,480

-

2,480

2,480



132 Warwick Road

Highland Park, IL

-

2,820

15,832


2,820

16,019




1651 Richfield Avenue

Hemet, CA

-


3,405

-


3,405




25818 Columbia St.

Hemet, CA

13,550

1,890

28,606


1,899

29,247

7,377



1001 N. Lyon Ave

Hemet, CA

-


9,630



10,353

1,426



1001 N. Lyon Ave

High River, AB

-

1,138

40,937

-

1,138

40,937




660 7th Street

Hilltop, WV

-


25,355



25,370

2,564



Saddle Shop Road

Highlands Ranch, CO

-


3,721

4,983


8,704

1,454



9160 S. University Blvd.

Hollywood, FL

-

1,240

13,806


1,240

14,242




3880 South Circle Drive

Hamburg, PA

-


10,543



10,734

1,258



125 Holly Road

Homestead, FL

-

2,750

11,750

-

2,750

11,750

2,801



1990 S. Canal Dr.

Hanford, England

-

1,745

12,411

-

1,745

12,411




Bankhouse Road

Hinckley, England

-

2,726

5,296

-

2,726

5,296




Tudor Road

Huntington, WV

-


32,261



32,387

3,280



101 13th Street

Houston, TX

-

5,090

9,471

-

5,090

9,471

1,592



15015 Cypress Woods Medical Drive

Howell, MI

-


8,550

-


8,550




3003 West Grand River Avenue

High Point, NC

-


4,443



5,236

1,694



1568 Skeet Club Rd.

High Point, NC

-


2,185



2,595




1564 Skeet Club Rd.

High Point, NC

-


3,395



3,423

1,117



201 W. Hartley Dr.

High Point, NC

-


4,143

-


4,143

1,339



1560 Skeet Club Rd.

Hurricane, WV

-


21,454



22,258

2,255



590 N Poplar Fork Road

Hermitage, TN

-

1,500

9,856


1,500

9,902




4131 Andrew Jackson Parkway

Harleysville, PA

-


11,355

-


11,355

1,696



695 Main Street

Harrow, England

-

9,347

10,437

-

9,347

10,437




177 Preston Hill

Hatboro, PA

-

-

28,112

1,746

-

29,858

2,910



3485 Davisville Road

Hutchinson, KS



10,590



10,784

2,888



2416 Brentwood

Hatfield, England

-

3,692

9,504

-

3,692

9,504




St Albans Road East

Huron, OH

-


6,088

1,452


7,540

1,815



1920 Cleveland Rd. W.

Haverford, PA

-

1,880

33,993


1,883

34,578

3,540



731 Old Buck Lane

Hanover, IN

-


4,430

-


4,430

1,369



188 Thornton Rd

Howell, NJ

9,761

1,066

21,577

-

1,066

21,577

2,310



100 Meridian Place

Indianapolis, IN

-


6,287

22,565


28,852

8,017



8616 W. Tenth St.

Indianapolis, IN

-


2,473

12,123


14,596

3,933



8616 W.Tenth St.

Indianapolis, IN

-


14,696

-


14,696




1635 N Arlington Avenue

Indianapolis, IN

-


18,781

-


18,781




5404 Georgetown Road

Jackson, NJ

-

6,500

26,405

2,193

6,500

28,598

1,611



2 Kathleen Drive

Jefferson, OH

-


9,120

-


9,120

2,395



222 Beech St.

Jacksonville Beach, FL

-

1,210

26,207


1,210

26,679

1,591



1700 The Greens Way

Jamestown, TN

-

-

6,707


-

7,215

4,829



208 N. Duncan St.

Jupiter, FL

-

3,100

47,453


3,100

48,016

2,731



110 Mangrove Bay Way

Kokomo, IN

-


16,052

-


16,052




2200 S. Dixon Rd

Kirkstall, England

-

3,077

11,888

-

3,077

11,888




29 Broad Lane

Keene, NH

-


9,639



9,923




677 Court Street

Kennewick, WA

-

1,820

27,991


1,834

28,232

5,715



2802 W 35th Ave

Kenner, LA

-

1,100

10,036


1,100

10,364

7,543



1600 Joe Yenni Blvd

Kent, WA

-


20,318

10,470


30,788

5,271



24121 116th Avenue SE

Kennesaw, GA

-


10,848



11,236




5235 Stilesboro Road

Kirkland, WA

-

1,880

4,315


1,880

4,998

1,420



6505 Lakeview Dr.

Kennett Square, PA

-

1,050

22,946


1,083

23,056

2,386



301 Victoria Gardens Dr.

Laconia, NH

-


14,434



14,930

1,546



175 Blueberry Lane

Lee, MA

-


18,135



19,061

6,578



600 & 620 Laurel St.

Lancaster, CA

9,917


15,295



15,857

2,947



43051 15th St. West

Lancaster, PA

-


7,623



7,702




336 South West End Ave

Lancaster, NH

-


15,804



15,964

1,625



91 Country Village Road

Lancaster, NH

-









63 Country Village Road

Lebanon, NH

-


20,138



20,202

2,062



24 Old Etna Road

Lecanto, FL

-


6,900

-


6,900

1,996



2341 W. Norvell Bryant Hwy.

Leicester, England

-

3,863

30,823

-

3,863

30,823

1,635



307 London Road

Lexington, KY

-

1,980

21,269

-

1,980

21,269




2531 Old Rosebud Road

Langhorne, PA

-

1,350

24,881


1,350

24,998

2,618



262 Toll Gate Road

Longview, TX



5,520

-


5,520

1,129



311 E Hawkins Pkwy

Longwood, FL

-

1,260

6,445

-

1,260

6,445




425 South Ronald Reagan Boulevard

Libertyville, IL

-

6,500

40,024

-

6,500

40,024

4,059



901 Florsheim Dr

Lake Barrington, IL

-

3,400

66,179


3,400

66,225

3,772



22320 Classic Court

Lakewood, CO

-

2,160

28,091

-

2,160

28,091




7395 West Eastman Place

Lake Zurich, IL

-

1,470

9,830

-

1,470

9,830




550 America Court

Lillington, NC

-


17,588

-


17,588




54 Red Mulberry Way

Lillington, NC

-


16,460

-


16,460




2041 NC-210 N

Leominster, MA

-


6,201



6,226




44 Keystone Drive

Lincoln, NE

-


13,807

-


13,807

1,694



7208 Van Dorn St.

Lenoir, NC

-


3,748



4,389

1,413



1145 Powell Rd., N.E.

Linwood, NJ

-


21,984



22,614

2,409



432 Central Ave

Loganville, GA

-

1,430

22,912


1,430

23,469

1,516



690 Tommy Lee Fuller Drive

Louisville, KY

-


10,010

2,767


12,777

3,400



4604 Lowe Rd

LaPlata, MD

-


19,068



19,534

2,018



One Magnolia Drive

Las Vegas, NV

-


23,420

-


23,420

2,088



2500 North Tenaya Way

Lethbridge, AB

1,844

1,448

3,280

-

1,448

3,280




785 Columbia Boulevard West

Lethbridge, AB

3,720


8,178

-


8,178




1730 10th Avenue

Litchfield, CT

-

1,240

17,908


1,250

18,062

1,882



19 Constitution Way

Little Neck, NY

-

3,350

38,461


3,355

39,235

4,076



55-15 Little Neck Pkwy.

Lutherville, MD

-

1,100

19,786

1,579

1,100

21,365

2,127



515 Brightfield Road

Livermore, CA

10,065

4,100

24,996

-

4,100

24,996




35 Fenton Street

Lewisburg, WV

-


3,699



3,769




331 Holt Lane

Lowell, MA

-

1,070

13,481


1,070

13,584

1,489



841 Merrimack Street

Lowell, MA

-


3,378



3,408




30 Princeton Blvd

Lawrence, KS

3,604


8,716

-


8,716




3220 Peterson Road

Lakewood Ranch, FL

-


6,714

1,988


8,702




8230 Nature's Way

Lakewood Ranch, FL

7,191

1,000

22,388

-

1,000

22,388

1,471



8220 Natures Way

Lexington, NC

-


3,900

1,015


4,915

1,664



161 Young Dr.

Lynchburg, VA

-


16,122

-


16,122




189 Monica Blvd

Mahwah, NJ

-

-

-



-

-



15 Edison Road

Fayetteville, NY

-


3,962



4,462

1,545



5125 Highbridge St.

Marlinton, WV

-


8,430



8,441




Stillwell Road, Route 1

Marianna, FL

-


8,910

-


8,910

2,070



2600 Forest Glenn Tr.

Middleburg Heights, OH

-


7,780

-


7,780

2,156



15435 Bagley Rd.

Manteca, CA

6,091

1,300

12,125

1,451

1,312

13,564

3,561



430 N. Union Rd.

Macungie, PA

-


29,033



29,049

2,921



1718 Spring Creek Road

Manchester, NH

-

1,080

3,059

-

1,080

3,059




191 Hackett Hill Road

McMurray, PA

-

1,440

15,805

1,894

1,440

17,699

1,486



240 Cedar Hill Dr

Mechanicsburg, PA

-

1,350

16,650

-

1,350

16,650

1,520



4950 Wilson Lane

Mercerville, NJ

-


9,929



10,045

1,113



2240 White Horse- Merceville Road

Mendham, NJ

-

1,240

27,169


1,240

27,802

2,768



84 Cold Hill Road

Louisville, KY

-


7,135



7,298

2,843



2529 Six Mile Lane

Medicine Hat, AB

2,990

1,112

6,554

-

1,112

6,554




65 Valleyview Drive SW

Meriden, CT

-

1,300

1,472


1,300

1,477




845 Paddock Ave

Melbourne, FL

-

7,070

48,257

13,257

7,070

61,514

8,255



7300 Watersong Lane

Mesa, AZ

6,015


9,087



9,800

3,787



7231 E. Broadway

Morgantown, KY

-


3,705



4,320

1,404



206 S. Warren St.

Morgantown, WV

-


15,633



15,653

1,248



161 Bakers Ridge Road

McHenry, IL

-

1,576

-

-

1,576

-

-



_

Middleton, WI

-


4,006



4,606

1,462



6701 Stonefield  Rd.

Middletown, RI

-

1,480

19,703

-

1,480

19,703

2,076



333 Green End Avenue

McKinney, TX

-

1,570

7,389

-

1,570

7,389

1,022



2701 Alma Rd.

Mill Creek, WA

28,094

10,150

60,274


10,179

60,859

12,788



14905 Bothell-Everett Hwy

Milford, DE

-


7,816



7,855




500 South DuPont Boulevard

Milford, DE

-


19,216



19,274

2,015



700 Marvel Road

Midland, MI

-


11,025

5,522


16,547

1,244



2325 Rockwell Dr

Millersville, MD

-


1,020



1,045

1,045



899 Cecil Avenue

Melville, NY

-

4,280

73,283

1,224

4,282

74,505

7,661



70 Pinelawn Rd

Monmouth Junction, NJ

-


6,209



6,266




2 Deer Park Drive

Marmet, WV

-


26,483

-


26,483

2,623



1 Sutphin Drive

Monclova, OH

-

1,750

12,243

-

1,750

12,243




6935 Monclova Road

Menomonee Falls, WI

-

1,020

6,984

1,607

1,020

8,591

1,374



W128 N6900 Northfield Drive

Manahawkin, NJ

-

1,020

20,361


1,020

20,483

2,126



1361 Route 72 West

Manalapan, NJ

-


22,624



22,780

1,991



445 Route 9 South

Monroe, NC

-


3,681



4,329

1,429



918 Fitzgerald St.

Monroe, NC

-


4,799



5,656

1,760



919 Fitzgerald St.

Monroe, NC

-


4,021



4,135

1,363



1316 Patterson Ave.

Manassas, VA

-


7,446



7,976

2,304



8341 Barrett Dr.

Montville, NJ

-

3,500

31,002


3,500

31,429

2,789



165 Changebridge Rd.

Monroe, WA

-

2,560

34,460


2,584

34,741

5,841



15465 179th Ave. SE

Morton Grove, IL

-

1,900

19,374


1,900

19,526

1,618



5520 N. Lincoln Ave.

Monroe Twp, NJ

-

1,160

13,193


1,160

13,268

1,479



292 Applegarth Road

Moyock, NC

-


13,387

-


13,387




141 Moyock Landing Drive

Mount Pleasant, SC

-

-

17,200

-

4,052

13,149




1200 Hospital Drive

Memphis, TN

-


5,963

-


5,963

2,129



1150 Dovecrest Rd.

Memphis, TN

-


9,660

1,600


11,260

1,326



141 N. McLean Blvd.

Marietta, GA

-

1,270

10,519


1,270

10,966




3039 Sandy Plains Road

Marlborough, England

-

3,380

8,615

-

3,380

8,615




The Common

Meridian, ID

-

3,600

20,802


3,600

21,053

6,584



2825 E. Blue Horizon Dr.

Morehead City, NC

-


3,104

1,648


4,752

1,815



107 Bryan St.

Marlton, NJ

-

-

38,300

1,830

-

40,130

6,384



92 Brick Road

Marion, IN

-


12,750

-


12,750




614 W. 14th Street

Marion, IN

-


9,190

-


9,190




505 N. Bradner Avenue

Marysville, WA

4,513


4,780



5,109

1,570



9802 48th Dr. N.E.

Merrillville, IN

-


11,699



11,853

2,132



9509 Georgia St.

Monterey, TN

-

-

4,195


-

4,605

3,034



410 W. Crawford Ave.

Missoula, MT

-


7,490



7,867

1,935



3620 American Way

Mansfield, TX

-


5,251

-


5,251

1,086



2281 Country Club Dr

Louisville, KY

-


4,675



4,808

1,903



1120 Cristland Rd.

Moorestown, NJ

-

2,060

51,628


2,063

52,438

5,384



1205 N. Church St

Moorestown, NJ

-

6,400

23,875

-

6,400

23,875




250 Marter Avenue

Mishawaka, IN

-


16,122

-


16,122




60257 Bodnar Blvd

Mountain City, TN

-


5,896



6,556

4,179



919 Medical Park Dr.

Monteagle, TN

-


3,318

-


3,318

1,293



218 Second St., N.E.

Martinsburg, WV

-


17,180



17,230

1,719



2720 Charles Town Road

Matthews, NC

-


4,738

-


4,738

1,569



2404 Plantation Center Dr.

Martinsville, VA

-


-

-


-

-



Rolling Hills Rd. & US Hwy. 58

Mt. Vernon, WA

-


2,200



2,356




3807 East College Way

Mount Vernon, WA

-

3,440

21,842

-

3,440

21,842




1810 E. Division Street

Matawan, NJ

-

1,830

20,618


1,830

20,625

1,769



625 State Highway 34

Millville, NJ

-


29,944



30,048

3,071



54 Sharp Street

Nacogdoches, TX



5,754

-


5,754

1,169



5902 North St

North Augusta, SC

-


2,558

-


2,558

1,109



105 North Hills Dr.

North Andover, MA

-


21,817



21,870

2,243



140 Prescott Street

North Andover, MA

-

1,070

17,341

1,303

1,070

18,644

1,928



1801 Turnpike Street

Naugatuck, CT

-

1,200

15,826


1,200

16,002

1,678



4 Hazel Avenue

New Braunfels, TX

-

1,200

19,800

-

1,200

19,800

1,998



2294 East Common Street

Newcastle Under Lyme, England

-

1,402

7,141

-

1,402

7,141




Hempstalls Lane

Newcastle-under-Lyme, England

-

1,421

6,991

-

1,421

6,991




Silverdale Road

North Cape May, NJ

-


22,266



22,302

2,275



700 Townbank Road

Needham, MA

-

1,610

13,715


1,610

14,081

5,445



100 West St.

Newport, VT

-


3,867

-


3,867




35 Bel-Aire Drive

Northampton, England

-

6,543

21,906

-

6,543

21,906




Cliftonville Road

Northampton, England

-

2,542

7,901

-

2,542

7,901




Cliftonville Road

New Haven, IN

-


3,524

-


3,524

1,305



1201 Daly Dr.

New Moston, England

-

1,869

5,529

-

1,869

5,529




90a Broadway

Nuneaton, England

-

4,198

11,342

-

4,198

11,342




132 Coventry Road

Naples, FL

-

1,716

17,306

1,878

1,738

19,162

16,523



1710 S.W. Health Pkwy.

Naples, FL

-


5,450

-


5,450

1,698



2900 12th St. N.

Naperville, IL

-

3,470

29,547

-

3,470

29,547

3,054



504 North River Road

Naperville, IL

-

1,550

12,237

-

1,550

12,237




1936 Brookdale Road

Norman, OK

-


1,484

-


1,484




1701 Alameda Dr.

Norman, OK

10,776

1,480

33,330

-

1,480

33,330

2,144



800 Canadian Trails Drive

Norristown, PA

-

1,200

19,488

1,762

1,200

21,250

2,101



1700 Pine Street

Nashville, TN

-

4,910

29,590

-

4,910

29,590

5,152



15 Burton Hills Boulevard

Nashville, TN

-

4,500

12,287

-

4,500

12,287




832 Wedgewood Ave

Nuthall, England

-

2,056

7,908

-

2,056

7,908




172A Nottingham Road

Nuthall, England

-

3,155

13,177

-

3,155

13,177




172 Nottingham Road

Newark, DE

-


21,220

1,488


22,708

5,775



200 E. Village Rd.

Oakland, CA

-

4,760

16,143

-

4,760

16,143




468 Perkins Street

Ocala, FL

-

1,340

10,564

-

1,340

10,564

1,571



2650 SE 18TH Avenue

Ogden, UT

-


6,700



7,399

1,935



1340 N. Washington Blv.

Oak Hill, WV

-


24,506

-


24,506

2,422



422 23rd Street

Oak Hill, WV

-



-






438 23rd Street

Oklahoma City, OK

-


7,513

-


7,513

1,347



13200 S. May Ave

Oklahoma City, OK

-


7,017

-


7,017

1,175



11320 N. Council Road

Olds, AB

-


9,172

-


9,172




5600 Sunrise Crescent

Olympia, WA

6,619


16,689



16,844

2,827



616 Lilly Rd. NE

Omaha, NE

-


10,230

-


10,230

1,276



11909 Miracle Hills Dr.

Omaha, NE

-


8,864

-


8,864

1,150



5728 South 108th St.

Owenton, KY

-


2,400

-


2,400




905 Hwy. 127 N.

Ormond Beach, FL

-

-

2,739


-

3,191

1,791



103 N. Clyde Morris Blvd.

Orwigsburg, PA

-


20,632



20,766

2,143



1000 Orwigsburg Manor Drive

Oneonta, NY

-


5,020

-


5,020




1846 County Highway 48

Overland Park, KS

-

3,730

27,076


3,730

27,416

3,866



12000 Lamar Avenue

Overland Park, KS

-

4,500

29,105

7,295

4,500

36,400

4,142



6101 W 119th St

Owensboro, KY

-


6,760



7,369

1,948



1614 W. Parrish Ave.

Owensboro, KY

-


13,275

-


13,275

3,688



1205 Leitchfield Rd.

Owasso, OK

-


1,380

-


1,380




12807 E. 86th Place N.

Oxford, MI

11,275

1,430

15,791

-

1,430

15,791

1,812



701 Market St

Paris, TX



5,452

-


5,452

2,967



750 N Collegiate Dr

Panama City Beach, FL

-


7,717



7,752




6012 Magnolia Beach Road

Petoskey, MI

5,900


14,452

-


14,452

1,544



965 Hager Dr

Pigeon Forge, TN

-


4,180



4,297

1,738



415 Cole Dr.

Philadelphia, PA

-

2,700

25,709


2,700

26,041

2,708



184 Bethlehem Pike

Philadelphia, PA

-

2,930

10,433

3,373

2,930

13,806

1,475



1526 Lombard Street

Philadelphia, PA

-


11,239



11,304

1,141



8015 Lawndale Avenue

Philadelphia, PA

-

1,810

16,898


1,810

16,931

1,946



650 Edison Avenue

Piqua, OH

-


1,885

-


1,885




1744 W. High St.

Parkersburg, WV

-


21,288



21,931

2,187



723 Summers Street

Plattsmouth, NE

-


5,650

-


5,650




1913 E. Highway 34

Plymouth, MI

-

1,490

19,990


1,490

20,119

2,192



14707 Northville Rd

Pella, IA

-


6,716



6,805




2602 Fifield Road

Palm Coast, FL

-


10,957

-


10,957

1,495



50 Town Ct.

Phillipsburg, NJ

-


21,175



21,368

2,244



290 Red School Lane

Phillipsburg, NJ

-


8,114



8,151




843 Wilbur Avenue

Palestine, TX

-


4,320

1,300


5,620

1,201



1625 W. Spring St.

Plainview, NY

-

3,990

11,969


3,990

12,361

1,210



150 Sunnyside Blvd

Pennington, NJ

-

1,380

27,620


1,462

28,145

2,385



143 West Franklin Avenue

Pinehurst, NC

-


2,690



3,174

1,085



17 Regional Dr.

Ponoka, AB

4,464


12,920

-


12,920




4004 40th Street Close

Princeton, NJ

-

1,730

30,888

1,150

1,775

31,992

2,752



155 Raymond Road

Parkville, MD

-

1,350

16,071


1,350

16,345

1,729



8710 Emge Road

Parkville, MD

-


11,186



11,189

1,223



8720 Emge Road

Parkville, MD

-

1,100

11,768

-

1,100

11,768

1,273



1801 Wentworth Road

Post Falls, ID

-

2,700

14,217

2,181

2,700

16,398

2,770



460 N. Garden Plaza Ct.

Port St. Joe, FL

-


2,055

-


2,055

1,060



220 9th St.

Pennsauken, NJ

-


10,780



10,959

1,297



5101 North Park Drive

Port St. Lucie, FL

-

8,700

47,230

5,882

8,700

53,112

6,406



10685 SW Stony Creek Way

Paso Robles, CA

-

1,770

8,630


1,770

9,323

3,150



1919 Creston Rd.

Pittsburgh, PA

-

1,750

8,572


1,750

8,687

2,390



100 Knoedler Rd.

Pottsville, PA

-


26,964



27,166

2,833



1000 Schuylkill Manor Road

Puyallup, WA

11,296

1,150

20,776


1,156

20,971

3,652



123 Fourth Ave. NW

Quakertown, PA

-

1,040

25,389


1,040

25,461

2,599



1020 South Main Street

Rochdale, MA

-

-

7,100

-


6,410




111 Huntoon Memorial Highway

Rockville, MD

-

-

16,398


-

16,408

1,237



9701 Medical Center Drive

Red Bank, NJ

-

1,050

21,275


1,050

21,542

1,877



One Hartford Dr.

Ridgely, TN

-


5,700



5,797

2,173



117 N. Main St.

Reidsville, NC

-


3,830



4,687

1,605



2931 Vance St.

Ridgewood, NJ

-

1,350

16,170


1,350

16,650

1,686



330 Franklin Turnpike

Reading, PA

-


19,906



20,008

2,073



5501 Perkiomen Ave

Ridgeland, MS

-


7,675



8,102

2,362



410 Orchard Park

Rogersville, TN

-


3,278

-


3,278

1,282



109 Hwy. 70 N.

Rehoboth Beach, DE

-


24,248



24,603

2,573



36101 Seaside Blvd

Rocky Hill, CT

-

1,090

6,710

1,500

1,090

8,210

2,281



60 Cold Spring Rd.

Rockville, CT

-

1,500

4,835


1,500

4,911




1253 Hartford Turnpike

Rockledge, FL

-


4,117

-


4,117

1,868



1775 Huntington Lane

Raleigh, NC

24,942

3,530

59,589

-

3,530

59,589

3,538



5301 Creedmoor Road

Raleigh, NC

-

2,580

16,837

-

2,580

16,837

1,092



7900 Creedmoor Road

Richmond, VA

-

-

12,000

-


11,750




2220 Edward Holland Drive

Romeoville, IL

-

1,895

-

-

1,895

-

-



Grand Haven Circle

Reno, NV

-

1,060

11,440


1,060

12,045

3,217



5165 Summit Ridge Road

Rohnert Park, CA

13,494

6,500

18,700

1,498

6,546

20,152

5,062



4855 Snyder Lane

Ruston, LA

-


9,790

-


9,790




1401 Ezelle St

Rugeley, England

-

2,399

12,958

-

2,399

12,958




Horse Fair

Rutland, VT

-

1,190

23,655


1,190

23,743

2,467



9 Haywood Avenue

Rockville Centre, NY

-

4,290

20,310


4,290

20,746

1,902



260 Maple Ave

Rockwood, TN

-


7,116



7,857

2,905



5580 Roane State Hwy.

Roswell, GA

7,759

1,107

9,627


1,114

10,413

7,337



655 Mansell Rd.

Sacramento, CA

10,125


14,781



14,865

2,588



6350 Riverside Blvd

Sanatoga, PA

-


30,695



30,733

3,082



225 Evergreen Road

San Angelo, TX

-


8,800



9,225

2,414



2695 Valleyview Blvd.

San Angelo, TX

-

1,050

24,689

-

1,050

24,689




6101 Grand Court Road

San Ramon, CA

8,827

2,430

17,488


2,435

17,535

2,918



18888 Bollinger Canyon Rd

South Bend, IN

-


17,770

-


17,770




52565 State Road 933

San Bernardino, CA

-

3,700

14,300


3,700

14,987

2,366



1760 W. 16th St.

South Boston, MA

-


2,002

5,218


7,220

3,154



804 E. Seventh St.

Salisbury, NC

-


5,697



5,865

1,848



2201 Statesville Blvd.

Scott Depot, WV

-


6,876



6,934




5 Rolling Meadows

Scranton, PA

-


17,618

-


17,618




2741 Blvd. Ave

Scranton, PA

-


12,150

-


12,150




2751 Boulevard Ave

St. Charles, MD

-


15,555



15,639

1,641



4140 Old Washington Highway

South Croydon, England

-

3,116

2,648

-

3,116

2,648




42-46 Bramley Hill

San Diego, CA

-

-

22,003

1,845

-

23,848

3,683



555 Washington St.

Seattle, WA

7,563

5,190

9,350


5,199

9,692

2,615



11501 15th Ave NE

Seattle, WA

7,055

3,420

15,555


3,420

15,693

2,938



2326 California Ave SW

Seattle, WA

-

2,630

10,257


2,630

10,293

2,019



4611 35th Ave SW

Seattle, WA

28,100

10,670

37,291


10,700

37,418

8,809



805 4th Ave N

Seaford, DE

-


14,029



14,082

1,539



1100 Norman Eskridge Highway

Seaford, DE

-


7,995

1,547


9,542




715 East King Street

Severna Park, MD

-

2,120

31,273


2,120

32,081

3,178



24 Truckhouse Road

Loxley, England

-

1,729

19,784

-

1,729

19,784




Loxley Road

Shillington, PA

-

1,020

19,569


1,020

20,525

2,084



500 E Philadelphia Ave

Shelbyville, KY

-


3,870



4,472

1,096



1871 Midland Trail

Shelton, WA

-


17,049



17,345

1,192



900 W Alpine Way

Shepherdstown, WV

-


13,806



13,819

1,391



80 Maddex Drive

Sherman, TX



5,221

-


5,221

1,131



1011 E. Pecan Grove Rd.

Shawnee, OK

-


1,400

-


1,400




3947 Kickapoo

Southbury, CT

-

1,860

23,613


1,860

24,571

2,381



655 Main St

Silvis, IL

-


16,420



16,559

1,914



1900 10th St.

Sissonville, WV

-


23,948



24,003

2,434



302 Cedar Ridge Road

Selbyville, DE

-


25,912



26,113

2,743



21111 Arrington Dr

Salem, OR

-


5,171

-


5,172

2,220



1355 Boone Rd. S.E.

Columbus, IN

-


6,710

-


6,710

2,217



2011 Chapa Dr.

Stamford, England

-

2,298

4,089

-

2,298

4,089




Priory Road

Somerset, MA

-

1,010

29,577


1,010

29,728

2,990



455 Brayton Avenue

Smithfield, NC



5,680

-


5,680

1,806



830 Berkshire Rd.

Smithfield, NC

-


8,220

-


8,220




250 Highway 210 West

San Antonio, TX

-

6,120

28,169

2,124

6,120

30,293

2,672



2702 Cembalo Blvd

San Antonio, TX

-

-

17,303

-

-

17,303

5,084



8902 Floyd Curl Dr.

Sonoma, CA

14,705

1,100

18,400

1,374

1,109

19,764

4,887



800 Oregon St.

Spring City, TN

-


6,085

3,210


9,295

3,120



331 Hinch St.

Springfield, IL

-

-

10,100

-


9,332




701 North Walnut Street

Springfield, IL

-


13,378

-


13,378




3089 Old Jacksonville Road

Spring House, PA

-


10,780



10,979

1,207



905 Penllyn Pike

Sparks, NV

-

3,700

46,526

-

3,700

46,526

6,862



275 Neighborhood Way

Spencer, WV

-


8,810



8,838




825 Summit Street

Spruce Pine, NC

-


8,340

-


8,340




13681 Highway 226 South

South Pittsburg, TN

-


5,628

-


5,628

1,901



201E. 10th St.

Shrewsbury, NJ

-

2,120

38,116


2,123

38,674

4,016



5 Meridian Way

Sarasota, FL

-


3,175

-


3,175

1,622



8450 McIntosh Rd.

Sarasota, FL

-


3,400

-


3,400

1,181



4602 Northgate Ct.

Sarasota, FL

-

3,360

19,140

-

3,360

19,140

1,673



6150 Edgelake Drive

Sarasota, FL

-

1,120

12,489


1,120

12,595




2290 Cattlemen Road

Sarasota, FL

-


8,825



9,360




3221 Fruitville Road

Sarasota, FL

-


9,854



10,036




3749 Sarasota Square Boulevard

Sand Springs, OK

6,624


19,654

-


19,654

1,288



4402 South 129th Avenue West

Silver Spring, MD

-

1,250

7,278


1,250

7,547




2101 Fairland Road

Silver Spring, MD

-

1,150

9,252


1,150

9,356




12325 New Hampshire

Sisterville, WV

-


5,400



5,642




201 Wood Street

Stanwood, WA

-

2,260

28,474


2,283

28,728

5,110



7212 265th St NW

Sittingbourne, England

-

1,714

8,256

-

1,714

8,256




200 London Road

St. Louis, MO

-

1,890

12,165


1,890

12,297

1,378



6543 Chippewa St

Stroudsburg, PA

-


16,321

-


16,321




370 Whitestone Corner Road

Stockton, CA

2,914

2,280

5,983


2,372

6,176

1,273



6725 Inglewood

Statesville, NC

-


1,447



1,713




2441 E. Broad St.

Statesville, NC

-


6,183



6,191

1,904



2806 Peachtree Place

Statesville, NC

-


3,627

-


3,627

1,146



2814 Peachtree Rd.

Superior, WI

-

1,020

13,735


1,020

13,814




1915 North 34th Street

Summit, NJ

-

3,080

14,152

-

3,080

14,152

1,449



41 Springfield Avenue

Seven Fields, PA

-


4,663



4,722

2,033



500 Seven Fields Blvd.

Swanton, OH

-


6,370

-


6,370

1,876



401 W. Airport Hwy.

Stillwater, OK

-


1,400

-


1,400




1616 McElroy Rd.

Thomasville, GA

-


13,899



14,335

1,304



423 Covington Avenue

Takoma Park, MD

-

1,300

10,136

-

1,300

10,136




7525 Carroll Avenue

Tomball, TX

-

1,050

13,300


1,050

13,971

1,357



1221 Graham Dr

Toms River, NJ

-

1,610

34,627


1,672

35,159

3,685



1587 Old Freehold Rd

Topeka, KS

-


12,712

-


12,712




1931 Southwest Arvonia Place

Trumbull, CT

-

4,440

43,384

-

4,440

43,384

4,239



6949 Main Street

Troy, OH

-


2,000

4,254


6,254

1,504



81 S. Stanfield Rd.

Troy, OH

-


16,730

-


16,730

4,744



512 Crescent Drive

Tulsa, OK

-

1,390

7,110


1,390

7,572

1,011



7220 S. Yale Ave.

Tulsa, OK

-

1,320

10,087

-

1,320

10,087




7902 South Mingo Road East

The Villages, FL

-

1,035

7,446

-

1,035

7,446




2450 Parr Drive

Towson, MD

-

1,180

13,280


1,180

13,475

1,434



7700 York Road

Texarkana, TX

-


1,403

-


1,403




4204 Moores Lane

Tyler, TX



5,268

-


5,268

1,081



5550 Old Jacksonville Hwy.

Uhrichsville, OH

-


6,716

-


6,716

1,690



5166 Spanson Drive S.E.

Uniontown, PA

-


6,817



6,901




75 Hikle Street

Vacaville, CA

13,876


17,100

1,417


18,517

4,650



799 Yellowstone Dr.

Vancouver, WA

11,632

1,820

19,042


1,821

19,140

3,375



10011 NE 118th Ave

Virginia Beach, VA

-

1,540

22,605

-

1,540

22,605




5520 Indian River Rd

Vallejo, CA

13,892

4,000

18,000

1,841

4,030

19,812

4,970



350 Locust Dr.

Vallejo, CA

7,361

2,330

15,407


2,330

15,559

2,930



2261 Tuolumne

Valparaiso, IN

-


2,558

-


2,558




2601 Valparaiso St.

Valparaiso, IN

-


2,962

-


2,962

1,098



2501 Valparaiso St.

Valley Falls, RI

-

1,080

7,433


1,080

7,443




100 Chambers Street

Venice, FL

-


6,000

-


6,000

1,837



1240 Pinebrook Rd.

Venice, FL

-

1,150

10,674

-

1,150

10,674

1,509



1600 Center Rd.

Vero Beach, FL

-


3,187

-


3,187

1,170



420 4th Ct.

Vero Beach, FL

-


3,263

-


3,263

1,209



410 4th Ct.

Vero Beach, FL

-

2,930

40,070

14,729

2,930

54,799

9,214



7955 16th Manor

Voorhees, NJ

-

1,800

37,299


1,800

37,858

3,898



2601 Evesham Road

Voorhees, NJ

-

1,900

26,040


1,900

26,934

2,765



3001 Evesham Road

Voorhees, NJ

-

3,100

25,950

-

3,100

25,950

1,450



113 South Route 73

Voorhees, NJ

-

3,700

24,312

-

3,700

24,312




311 Route 73

Wabash, IN

-


14,596

-


14,596




20 John Kissinger Drive

Wallingford, CT

-


1,210



1,269




35 Marc Drive

Warren, NJ

-

2,000

30,810


2,000

31,202

2,690



274 King George Rd

Pewaukee, WI

-

4,700

20,669

-

4,700

20,669

5,342



2400 Golf Rd.

Warwick, RI

-

1,530

18,564


1,530

18,734

1,984



660 Commonwealth Avenue

Webster Groves, MO

-

1,790

15,425

-

1,790

15,425




45 E Lockwood Avenue

Webster, NY

-


8,968



9,004




100 Kidd Castle Way

Webster, NY

-

1,300

21,127


1,300

21,136

1,214



200 Kidd Castle Way

Wichita Falls, TX

-

1,070

26,167

-

1,070

26,167




3908 Kell W Boulevard

Waconia, MN

-


14,726

4,495


19,221

1,555



500 Cherry Street

Windsor, CT

-

2,250

8,539

1,842

2,250

10,382

1,141



One Emerson Drive

Windsor, CT

-

1,800



1,800

1,544




One Emerson Drive

West Bend, WI

-


17,790



17,828

1,417



2130 Continental Dr

West Chester, PA

-

1,350

29,237


1,350

29,359

3,026



800 West Miner Street

West Chester, PA

-

3,290

42,258


3,290

42,852

3,124



1615 East Boot Road

West Chester, PA

-


11,894



11,899




1615 East Boot Road

Westfield, IN

-


15,972

-


15,972




937 E. 186th Street

Westlake, OH

-

1,330

17,926

-

1,330

17,926

6,500



27601 Westchester Pkwy.

Winter Garden, FL

-

1,350

7,937

-

1,350

7,937




720 Roper Road

Wilmington, DE

-


9,494



9,551

1,057



810 S Broom Street

Wareham, MA

-


10,313

1,701


12,014

4,384



50 Indian Neck Rd.

Whittier, CA

10,830

4,470

22,151


4,483

22,439

5,393



13250 E Philadelphia St

Wilkes-Barre, PA

-


13,842



13,961

1,492



440 North River Street

Wilkes-Barre, PA

-


2,301



2,345




300 Courtright Street

Waukee, IA

-

1,870

31,878

1,075

1,870

32,953

1,971



1650 SE Holiday Crest Circle

Wake Forest, NC

-


3,003

1,742


4,745

1,863



611 S. Brooks St.

Walkersville, MD

-

1,650

15,103

-

1,650

15,103

1,107



56 West Frederick Street

Willard, OH

-


6,447

-


6,447




1100 Neal Zick

Wall, NJ

-

1,650

25,350

1,958

1,690

27,268

2,236



2021 Highway 35

Williamsport, PA

-


4,946



5,319




1251 Rural Avenue

Williamsport, PA

-


8,487



8,925

1,011



1201 Rural Avenue

Wilmington, NC

-


2,991

-


2,991

1,278



3501 Converse Dr.

Wilmington, NC

-


15,363

-


15,363




3828 Independence Blvd

Wilmington, NC

-


6,575

-


6,575




3915 Stedwick Ct

Wolverhampton, England

-

1,986

8,432

-

1,986

8,432




378 Prestonwood Road

Westmoreland, TN

-


1,822

2,640


4,462

1,736



1559 New Hwy. 52

Williamstown, KY

-


6,430

-


6,430

1,804



201 Kimberly Lane

Winter Haven, FL

-


10,038

-


10,038




650 North Lake Howard Drive

Boonville, IN

-


5,510

-


5,510

1,948



1325 N. Rockport Rd.

Weston Super Mare, England

-

3,178

8,908

-

3,178

8,908




141b Milton Road

Worcester, MA

-

3,500

54,099

-

3,500

54,099

7,241



101 Barry Road

Worcester, MA

-

2,300

9,060

-

2,300

9,060

1,598



378 Plantation St.

Westford, MA

-


13,829



14,034

1,497



3 Park Drive

Westfield, NJ

-

2,270

16,589


2,270

17,086

1,921



1515 Lamberts Mill Road

Winston-Salem, NC

-


2,514



2,973




2980 Reynolda Rd.

Westerville, OH

-


8,287

3,105


11,392

7,518



690 Cooper Rd.

Wichita, KS

-

1,400

11,000

-

1,400

11,000

3,066



505 North Maize Road

Wichita, KS

-

1,760

19,007

-

1,760

19,007

1,518



10604 E 13th Street North

Wichita, KS

13,594


19,747

-


19,747

1,281



2050 North Webb Road

Weatherford, TX

-


5,261

-


5,261

1,088



1818 Martin Drive

Watchung, NJ

-

1,920

24,880


1,967

25,466

2,168



680 Mountain Boulevard

Wetaskiwin, AB

-


24,015

-


24,015




5430-37 A Avenue

White Lake, MI

10,231

2,920

20,179


2,920

20,271

2,256



935 Union Lake Rd

West Orange, NJ

-

2,280

10,687


2,280

10,869

1,247



20 Summit Street

Willow Grove, PA

-

1,300

14,736


1,300

14,845

1,654



1113 North Easton Road

Witherwack, England

-

1,192

8,731

-

1,192

8,731




Whitchurch Road

West Worthington, OH

-


5,090

-


5,090

1,330



111 Lazelle Rd., E.

Westworth Village, TX

-

2,060

31,296

-

2,060

31,296




25 Leonard Trail

Waxahachie, TX

-


5,763

-


5,763

1,045



1329 Brown St.

Wyncote, PA

-

2,700

22,244


2,700

22,392

2,372



1245 Church Road

Wyncote, PA

-

1,610

21,256


1,610

21,470

2,170



8100 Washington Lane

Wyncote, PA

-


7,811



7,843




240 Barker Road

Youngsville, NC

-


10,694

-


10,694




100 Sunset Drive

York, England

-

3,739

10,437

-

3,739

10,437




Rosetta Way, Boroughbridge Road

Zionsville, IN

-

1,610

22,400

1,691

1,610

24,091

2,636



11755 N Michigan Rd

Seniors Housing Triple-Net Total

$

593,414

$

900,397

$

9,683,752

$

365,636

$

912,535

$

10,037,249

$

1,262,419



Health Care REIT, Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and
  Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2014

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount at Which
  Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Building &
  Improvements

Cost Capitalized
  Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Building &
  Improvements

Accumulated Depreciation

(1)

Year Acquired

Year Built

Address

Seniors housing operating:

Albuquerque, NM

$

5,386

$

1,270

$

20,837

$

1,113

$

1,275

$

21,945

$

3,753



500 Paisano St NE

Acton, MA

-

-

31,346



31,786

2,441



10 Devon Drive

Agawam, MA

6,560


10,044



10,281

1,747



153 Cardinal Drive

Alhambra, CA

(0)


6,305



7,146




1118 N. Stoneman Ave.

Arlington, TX

21,858

1,660

37,395


1,660

37,888

5,390



1250 West Pioneer Parkway

Arnprior, ON



6,771



7,341




15 Arthur Street

Atlanta, GA

-

2,100

20,603

-

2,100

20,603

1,240



1000 Lenox Park Blvd NE

Atlanta, GA

-

-

-

-

-

-

-



650 Phipps Boulevard NE

Austin, TX

-

1,560

21,413

-

1,560

21,413




11330 Farrah Lane

Avon, CT

19,313

1,550

30,571

1,211

1,580

31,753

6,425



101 Bickford Extension

Azusa, CA

-


3,141

6,356


9,497

2,076



125 W. Sierra Madre Ave.

Bagshot, England

-

6,263

37,667

-

6,263

37,667

4,873



14 - 16 London Road

Bassett, England

-

6,154

39,867

-

6,154

39,867

4,737



111 Burgess Road

Beaconsfield, England

-

7,028

64,242

-

7,028

64,242

6,435



30-34 Station Road

Bedford, NH

-

-

-

33,076

2,527

30,549

2,591



5 Corporate Drive

Beaconsfield, QC

-

1,335

20,797

-

1,335

20,797

3,364



505 Elm Avenue

Buffalo Grove, IL

-

2,850

49,129


2,850

49,415

5,301



500 McHenry Road

Burlington, ON

16,014

1,559

22,733

-

1,559

22,733

2,785



500 Appleby Line

Burlington, MA

-

2,443

34,354


2,522

34,752

4,030



24 Mall Road

Borehamwood, England

-

7,074

41,060

10,953

6,778

52,310

5,087



Edgwarebury Lane

Buckingham, England

-

3,762

17,455

-

3,762

17,455

-



Church Street

Basking Ridge, NJ

-

2,356

37,710


2,356

38,065

3,839



404 King George Road

Bloomfield Hills, MI

-

2,000

35,662


2,000

35,980

3,640



6790 Telegraph Road

Broomfield, CO

-

4,140

44,547

9,035

6,804

50,918

5,177



400 Summit Blvd

Birmingham, England

-


26,540

-


26,540

3,072



5 Church Road, Edgbaston

Belmont, CA

-

3,000

23,526

1,091

3,000

24,616

3,967



1301 Ralston Avenue

Belmont, CA

-

-

35,300


-

35,841

3,975



1010 Alameda de Las Pulgas

Chula Vista, CA

-

2,072

22,163


2,072

22,584

2,273



3302 Bonita Road

Boulder, CO

-

2,994

27,458


2,994

28,242

3,971



3955 28th Street

Braintree, MA

21,377

-

41,290



41,636

4,566



618 Granite Street

Burbank, CA

-

4,940

43,466


4,940

43,891

5,946



455 E. Angeleno Avenue

Brantford, ON

-

-

-

-

-

-




436 Powerline Road

Brighton, MA

10,529

2,100

14,616


2,109

15,044

2,606



50 Sutherland Road

Brookfield, CT

19,681

2,250

30,180


2,262

30,788

5,350



246A Federal Road

Basingstoke, England

-

4,318

24,006

-

4,318

24,006




Grove Road

Banstead, England

-

8,781

54,836

13,313

8,437

68,494

7,095



Croydon Lane

Bethesda, MD

-

-

45,309


-

45,698

4,807



8300 Burdett Road

Bethesda, MD

-

-

-


-





8300 Burdett Road

Bethesda, MD

-

-

-


-





8300 Burdett Road

Baton Rouge, LA

9,498


29,436



29,549

2,960



9351 Siegen Lane

Bellevue, WA

-

2,800

19,004


2,800

19,828

2,714



15928 NE 8th Street

Blainville, QC

-

2,478

10,568

-

2,478

10,568

2,091



50 des Chateaux Boulevard

Calgary, AB

15,644

2,685

44,195

-

2,685

44,195

5,750



20 Promenade Way SE

Calgary, AB

18,011

3,319

48,797

-

3,319

48,797

5,883



80 Edenwold Drive NW

Calgary, AB

14,214

3,709

46,309

-

3,709

46,309

5,481



150 Scotia Landing NW

Calgary, AB

22,412

4,033

34,305

-

4,033

34,305

2,862



9229 16th Street SW

Carol Stream, IL

-

1,730

55,048


1,730

55,844

6,767



545 Belmont Lane

Camberley, England

-

-

(19)

-

-

(19)

(22)



Fernhill Road

Camberley, England


2,804

6,092

-

2,804

6,092




Fernhill Road

Church Crookham, England

-

3,271

17,962

-

3,271

17,962

1,129



Bourley Road

Chicoutimi, QC

-

-

-

-

-

-

(0)



1901 Des Roitelets Street

Chicoutimi, QC

-

-

-

-

-

-




220 Don-Bosco Street

Cardiff, England

-

4,020

15,610

-

4,020

15,610

2,417



127 Cyncoed Road

Cardiff by the Sea, CA

40,364

5,880

64,711


5,880

65,160

8,773



3535 Manchester Avenue

Chesterfield, MO

-

1,857

48,366


1,857

48,720

4,388



1880 Clarkson Road

North Chelmsford, MA

11,956


18,478



18,993

2,737



2 Technology Drive

Crystal Lake, IL

-


12,461



13,217

1,736



751 E Terra Cotta Avenue

Calabasas, CA

-

-

6,438


-

6,577

2,422



25100 Calabasas Road

Claremont, CA

-

2,430

9,928


2,438

10,271

1,287



2053 North Towne Avenue

Concord, NH

13,550


21,164



21,542

2,914



300 Pleasant Street

Cohasset, MA

-

2,485

26,147


2,485

27,038

2,824



125 King Street (Rt 3A)

Cornwall, ON

-

-

-

-

-

-

(0)



801 4th  Street East

Coquitlam, BC

12,906

3,623

28,904

-

3,623

28,904

4,057



1142 Dufferin Street

Cary, NC

-


45,240



45,402

3,638



1206 West Chatham Street

Colorado Springs, CO

-


14,756



15,391

1,412



2105 University Park Boulevard

Costa Mesa, CA

-

2,050

19,969


2,050

20,216

3,319



350 West Bay St

Centerville, MA

-

1,300

27,357


1,301

27,728

3,891



22 Richardson Road

Chorleywood, England

-

7,094

53,317

-

7,094

53,317

6,035



High View, Rickmansworth Road

Dallas, TX

-

1,080

9,655


1,080

10,007

1,507



3611 Dickason Avenue

Danvers, MA

9,503

1,120

14,557


1,129

15,015

2,326



1 Veronica Drive

Davenport, IA

-

1,403

35,893

2,334

1,444

38,186

5,548



4500 Elmore Ave.

Dollard-Des-Ormeaux, QC

-

2,328

17,169

-

2,328

17,169

3,423



4377 St. Jean Blvd

Decatur, GA

-

1,932

27,523


1,932

28,057

3,411



920 Clairemont Avenue

Dix Hills, NY

-

3,808

39,014


3,808

39,342

4,345



337 Deer Park Road

Drummondville, QC

-

-

-

-

-

-

(0)



540 Brouillard Street

Dresher, PA

7,358

1,900

10,664


1,900

11,073

2,162



1650 Susquehanna Road

Dublin, OH

18,178

1,680

43,423

3,828

1,724

47,207

7,701



6470 Post Rd

Denver, CO

12,745

1,450

19,389


1,455

20,010

2,293



4901 South Monaco Street

Denver, CO

-

2,910

35,838


2,930

36,307

4,926



8101 E Mississippi Avenue

Eastbourne, England

-

5,219

42,277

-

5,219

42,277

4,700



6 Upper Kings Drive

Encino, CA

-

5,040

46,255


5,040

46,821

5,911



15451 Ventura Boulevard

Edgewater, NJ

-

4,561

25,047


4,561

25,826

2,889



351 River Road

Edison, NJ

-

1,892

32,314


1,892

33,040

5,771



1801 Oak Tree Road

Edmonton, AB

11,604

1,775

35,348

-

1,775

35,348

4,643



103 Rabbit Hill Court NW

Edmonton, AB

14,893

2,460

43,842

-

2,460

43,842

6,049



10015 103rd Avenue NW

East Meadow, NY

-


45,991



46,116

4,972



1555 Glen Curtiss Boulevard

Encinitas, CA

-

1,460

7,721


1,460

8,362

3,454



335 Saxony Rd.

Escondido, CA

12,482

1,520

24,024


1,520

24,933

3,978



1500 Borden Rd

Esher, England

-

7,275

60,625

-

7,275

60,625

5,634



42 Copsem Lane

East Setauket, NY

-

4,920

37,354


4,929

37,713

3,975



1 Sunrise Drive

East Haven, CT

22,869

2,660

35,533

1,298

2,681

36,810

7,840



111 South Shore Drive

Fairfield, NJ

-

3,120

43,868


3,127

44,480

4,807



47 Greenbrook Road

Fairfax, VA

-


2,678



2,720




9207 Arlington Boulevard

Franklin, MA

14,129

2,430

30,597


2,442

31,032

2,674



4 Forge Hill Road

Flossmoor, IL

-

1,292

9,496


1,292

10,169

1,467



19715 Governors Highway

Fareham, England

-

4,300

22,743

-

4,300

22,743




Redlands Lane

Frome, England

-

3,435

18,756

-

3,435

18,756




Welshmill Lane

Fullerton, CA

12,999

1,964

19,989


1,964

20,296

2,328



2226 North Euclid Street

Fort Worth, TX

-

2,080

27,888


2,082

28,736

4,607



2151 Green Oaks Road

Gahanna, OH

-


11,214



12,155

1,043



775 East Johnstown Road

Guildford, England

-

6,769

71,005

-

6,769

71,005

6,885



Astolat Way, Peasmarsh

Gilroy, CA

-


13,880

24,144

1,539

37,245

6,994



7610 Isabella Way

Gilbert, AZ

16,589

2,160

28,246


2,160

28,482

4,232



580 S. Gilbert Road

Glen Cove, NY

-

4,594

35,236


4,594

36,228

4,949



39 Forest Avenue

Glenview, IL

-

2,090

69,288


2,090

70,136

8,258



2200 Golf Road

Green Valley, AZ

-

-


-

-





500 W Camino Encanto

Grosse Pointe Woods, MI

-


13,662



13,798

1,272



1850 Vernier Road

Grosse Pointe Woods, MI

-

1,430

31,777


1,430

32,078

3,000



21260 Mack Avenue

Gatineau, QC

-

-

-

-

-

-

(0)



250  St. Raymond Boulevard

Guelph, ON

-

-

-

-

-

-

(0)



1691 Gordon Street

Gurnee, IL

-


27,931



28,662

2,432



500 North Hunt Club Road

Golden Valley, MN

20,093

1,520

33,513


1,520

33,906

3,263



4950 Olson Memorial Highway

Holbrook, NY

-

3,957

35,337


3,957

35,599

3,730



320 Patchogue Holbrook Road

Highland Park, IL

-

2,250

25,313


2,259

25,536

3,531



1601 Green Bay Road

Huntington Beach, CA

-

3,808

31,172


3,810

31,678

4,417



7401 Yorktown Avenue

Altrincham, England

-

5,685

29,221

2,045

5,347

31,604

3,580



295 Hale Road

Horley, England

-

2,944

15,379

-

2,944

15,379




Court Lodge Road

Hamden, CT

15,389

1,460

24,093


1,487

24,789

4,423



35 Hamden Hills Drive

Hampshire, England

-

5,268

32,516

-

5,268

32,516

3,356



22-26 Church Road

Henderson, NV

-


29,809



29,899

3,253



1935 Paseo Verde Parkway

Henderson, NV

5,777

1,190

11,600


1,202

11,900

2,314



1555 West Horizon Ridge Parkway

Houston, TX

-

3,830

55,674

4,074

3,830

59,749

8,533



2929 West Holcombe Boulevard

Houston, TX

17,923

1,040

31,965

5,231

1,040

37,196

4,054



505 Bering Drive

Houston, TX

7,719


27,598

1,244


28,842

4,278



10225 Cypresswood Dr

Hove, England

-

1,717

8,430

-

1,717

8,430




Furze Hill

Irving, TX

-

1,030

6,823


1,030

7,590

1,482



8855 West Valley Ranch Parkway

Johns Creek, GA

-

1,580

23,285


1,580

23,398

2,563



11405 Medlock Bridge Road

Jonquière, QC

-

-

-

-

-

-

(0)



3978 Harvey Boulevard

Kennebunk, ME

-

2,700

30,204

1,705

2,973

31,636

4,969



One Huntington Common Drive

Kitchener, ON

-


2,990

-


2,990




164 - 168 Ferfus Avenue

Kitchener, ON

5,683

1,348

11,779

-

1,348

11,779

1,577



20 Fieldgate Street

Kitchener, ON

4,330

1,302

8,475

-

1,302

8,475

1,680



290 Queen Street South

Kelowna, BC

7,291

3,205

15,981

-

3,205

15,981

2,659



863 Leon Avenue

Cincinnati, OH

-

2,060

109,388

4,202

2,060

113,590

12,750



5445 Kenwood Road

Kingsville, ON

-

-

-

-

-

-

(0)



240 Main Street East

Kanata, ON

-

1,955

36,314

-

1,955

36,314

5,428



70 Stonehaven Drive

Kingwood, TX

3,087


9,777



10,086

1,493



22955 Eastex Freeway

Solihull, England

-

6,402

54,129

-

6,402

54,129

6,457



1270 Warwick Road

Kansas City, MO

-

1,820

34,898

3,095

1,845

37,968

6,273



12100 Wornall Road

Kansas City, MO

6,530

1,930

39,997

2,555

1,963

42,519

7,711



6500 North Cosby Ave

Kirkland, WA

24,600

3,450

38,709


3,454

39,026

4,870



14 Main Street South

London, England

-

3,941

12,591

-

3,941

12,591

-



71 Hatch Lane

Leawood, KS

15,886

2,490

32,493


5,617

30,061

4,718



4400 West 115th Street

Lenexa, KS

9,925


26,251



26,527

3,086



15055 West 87th Street Parkway

Lafayette Hill, PA

-

1,750

11,848

1,164

1,789

12,973

2,004



429 Ridge Pike

Longueuil, QC

-

-

-

-

-

-




3460 Chambly Road

Lincroft, NJ

-


19,958



20,580

2,090



734 Newman Springs Road

Lombard, IL

17,168

2,130

59,943


2,130

60,158

5,310



2210 Fountain Square Dr

London, ON

-

-

-

-

-

-

(0)



609 Wharncliff Road South

Langley, BC

-

-

-

-

-

-




6676 203rd Street

Los Angeles, CA

-

-

11,430


-

12,426

1,824



330 North Hayworth Avenue

Los Angeles, CA

65,431

-

114,438


-

115,219

16,608



10475 Wilshire Boulevard

Los Angeles, CA

-

3,540

19,007


3,540

19,510

2,292



2051 N. Highland Avenue

Louisville, KY

-

2,420

20,816


2,420

21,188

2,743



4600 Bowling Boulevard

Louisville, KY

11,351

1,600

20,326


1,600

20,487

2,719



6700 Overlook Drive

La Palma, CA

-

2,950

16,591


2,950

16,902

1,860



5321 La Palma Avenue

Lawrenceville, GA

16,177

1,500

29,003


1,508

29,202

3,241



1375 Webb Gin House Road

Lynnfield, MA

-

3,165

45,200


3,165

46,142

4,927



55 Salem Street

Mansfield, MA

28,326

3,320

57,011

1,863

3,395

58,798

10,606



25 Cobb Street

Mansfield, MA

-

-

-

-


-

-



25 Cobb Street

Mobberley, England

-

6,497

33,425

-

6,497

33,425

5,408



Barclay Park, Hall Lane

Marlboro, NJ

-

2,222

14,888


2,222

15,254

1,860



3A South Main Street

Meriden, CT

9,381

1,500

14,874


1,525

15,360

3,612



511 Kensington Avenue

Metairie, LA

13,456


27,708



27,962

2,596



3732 West Esplanade Ave. S

Milford, CT

11,527

3,210

17,364


3,210

18,202

3,589



77 Plains Road

Middletown, CT

15,451

1,430

24,242


1,439

24,786

4,604



645 Saybrook Road

Middletown, RI

16,432

2,480

24,628

1,060

2,495

25,672

4,573



303 Valley Road

Moose Jaw, SK

3,344


15,150

-


15,150

1,980



425 4th Avenue NW

Markham, ON

19,991

4,446

57,556

-

4,446

57,556

7,645



7700 Bayview Avenue

Memphis, TN

-

1,800

17,744


1,800

18,269

3,227



6605 Quail Hollow Road

Mississauga, ON

11,074

1,909

21,371

-

1,909

21,371

2,755



1130 Bough Beeches Boulevard

Mississauga, ON

3,727

1,121

5,308


1,025

5,432




3051 Constitution Boulevard

Minnetonka, MN

14,462

2,080

24,360


2,131

24,935

3,106



500 Carlson Parkway

Minnetonka, MN

16,532


29,344



29,577

2,664



18605 Old Excelsior Blvd.

Montreal, QC

-

-

-

-

-

-




3000 Notre Dame Street

Monterey, CA

-

6,440

29,101


6,440

29,419

3,190



1110 Cass St.

Montgomery Village, MD

-

3,530

18,246

1,421

3,544

19,653

3,819



19310 Club House Road

Malvern, PA

-

1,651

17,194


1,653

18,188

3,163



324 Lancaster Avenue

Mystic, CT

11,527

1,400

18,274


1,427

18,787

3,139



20 Academy Lane  Mystic

North Andover, MA

22,685

1,960

34,976


1,983

35,702

5,781



700 Chickering Road

Newton, MA

27,958

2,250

43,614


2,260

43,975

6,946



2300 Washington Street

Newton, MA

16,177

2,500

30,681

1,549

2,507

32,223

5,458



280 Newtonville Avenue

Newton, MA

-

3,360

25,099


3,376

25,971

4,715



430 Centre Street

Niantic, CT

-

1,320

25,986

4,022

1,331

29,997

3,789



417 Main Street

Newmarket, ON

-

-

-

-

-

-

(0)



197 Prospect Street

Naperville, IL

-

1,540

28,204


1,540

28,594

3,322



535 West Ogden Avenue

Nashville, TN

-

3,900

35,788


3,900

36,281

5,856



4206 Stammer Place

Newtown Square, PA

-

1,930

14,420


1,941

14,803

2,772



333 S. Newtown Street Rd.

North Tustin, CA

-

2,880

18,059


2,880

18,260

1,514



12291 Newport Avenue

Newmarket, England

-

5,141

13,478

-

5,141

13,478




Jeddah Way

Oakland, CA

-

3,877

47,508


3,877

48,208

5,383



11889 Skyline Boulevard

Oshawa, ON

4,005

1,002

8,895

-

1,002

8,895

1,250



649 King Street East

Oakton, VA

-

2,250

37,576

1,137

2,252

38,710

3,902



2863 Hunter Mill Road

Oak Park, IL

-

1,250

40,383


1,250

40,806

5,100



1035 Madison Street

Oakville, ON

1,819

1,622

8,357


1,494

8,494

1,156



289 and 299 Randall Street

Oakville, ON

12,660

2,539

35,287

-

2,539

35,287

5,000



25 Lakeshore Road West

Oakville, ON

6,596

1,516

16,093

-

1,516

16,093

1,759



345 Church Street

Oceanside, CA

12,714

2,160

18,352


2,193

19,130

3,363



3500 Lake Boulevard

Ottawa, ON

-

-

-

-

-

-




1344 Belcourt Boulevard

Ottawa, ON

3,658


4,998



5,560




1345 Ogilvie Road

Ottawa, ON

-


2,165

1,572


3,803




370 Kennedy Lane

Ottawa, ON

13,292

3,351

32,372

-

3,351

32,372

5,237



43 Aylmer Avenue

Ottawa, ON

5,852

1,329

11,519

-

1,329

11,519

1,179



1351 Hunt Club Road

Ottawa, ON

4,292


9,029



9,148

1,137



140 Darlington Private

Overland Park, KS

3,533

1,540

16,269


1,678

16,945

1,862



9201 Foster

Paramus, NJ

-

2,840

35,728


2,845

36,484

3,491



567 Paramus Road

Palo Alto, CA

17,129

-

39,639


-

40,267

4,188



2701 El Camino Real

Pointe-aux-Trembles, QC

-

-

-

-

-

-

(0)



3478 32nd avenue

Peabody, MA

6,446

-

-

18,543

2,200

16,343




73 Margin Street

Pembroke, ON

-

2,234

11,894

-

2,234

11,894

1,760



1111 Pembroke Street West

Plano, TX

4,167


8,538



9,197

1,655



5521 Village Creek Dr

Plano, TX

29,228

3,120

59,950


3,120

60,226

6,807



4800 West Parker Road

Plainview, NY

-

3,066

19,901


3,071

20,104

1,811



1231 Old Country Road

Providence, RI

-

2,600

27,546


2,639

28,351

6,482



700 Smith Street

Pittsburgh, PA

-

1,580

18,017


1,580

18,262

2,342



900 Lincoln Club Dr.

Pointe-Claire, QC

-

-

-

-

-

-

(0)



230 Hymus Boulevard

Purley, England

-

9,676

35,251

8,450

9,279

44,098

5,882



21 Russell Hill Road

Playa Vista, CA

-

1,580

40,531


1,580

41,012

4,541



5555 Playa Vista Drive

Quebec City, QC

-

-

-

-

-

-

(0)



545 Francis-Byrne Street

Quebec City, QC

-

-

-

-

-

-




1217 route de l'Eglise

Quebec City, QC

-

-

-

-

-

-

(0)



2321 del la Canardière

Quincy, MA

-

1,350

12,584


1,374

13,005

2,296



2003 Falls Boulevard

Rancho Cucamonga, CA

-

1,480

10,055


1,487

10,351

1,536



9519 Baseline Road

Randolph, NJ

-

1,540

46,934


1,540

47,172

4,896



648 Route 10 West

Redondo Beach, CA

-

-

9,557


-

9,754

3,088



514 North Prospect Ave

Regina, SK

8,696

1,771

25,011

-

1,771

25,011

3,179



3651 Albert Street

Regina, SK

8,332

1,482

24,918

-

1,482

24,918

2,768



3105 Hillsdale Street

Rocky Hill, CT

10,423


16,351



16,556

2,583



1160 Elm Street

Romeoville, IL

-


12,646

58,777

6,150

66,127

8,715



605 S Edward Dr.

Renton, WA

21,945

3,080

51,824


3,080

52,065

6,477



104 Burnett Avenue South

Rancho Palos Verdes, CA

-

5,450

60,034


5,450

60,563

7,472



5701 Crestridge Road

Roseville, MN

-

1,540

35,877


1,585

36,186

3,344



2555 Snelling Avenue, North

Roswell, GA

-

2,080

6,486


2,380

6,512

1,067



75 Magnolia Street

Sacramento, CA

-

1,300

23,394


1,304

23,646

2,274



345 Munroe Street

Salem, NH

20,907


32,721


1,048

33,218

4,725



242 Main Street

St. Albert, AB

10,979

1,365

21,172

-

1,365

21,172

1,387



78C McKenney Avenue

Seal Beach, CA

-

6,204

72,954


6,208

73,639

11,648



3850 Lampson Avenue

Bournemouth, England

-

6,979

53,622

-

6,979

53,622

4,774



42 Belle Vue Road

Scarborough, ON

-

-

-

-

-

-




65 Livingston Road

Swift Current, SK

2,981


11,821

-


11,821

1,469



301 Macoun Drive

Scottsdale, AZ

-

2,500

3,890

1,133

2,500

5,023




9410 East Thunderbird Road

Sun City West, AZ

12,478

1,250

21,778


1,250

22,498

2,287



13810 West Sandridge Drive

Studio City, CA

-

4,006

25,307


4,017

25,657

3,555



4610 Coldwater Canyon Avenue

San Diego, CA

-

4,200

30,707


4,200

30,823

2,473



2567 Second Avenue

San Diego, CA

-

5,810

63,078


5,810

63,619

10,073



13075 Evening Creek Drive S

San Diego, CA

-

3,000

27,164


3,000

27,434

2,449



810 Turquoise Street

San Diego, CA

-

-


-

-


-



11588 Via Rancho San Diego

Sandy Springs, GA

-

2,214

8,360


2,220

8,619

1,507



5455 Glenridge Drive NE

Seattle, WA

48,540

6,790

85,369

1,274

6,792

86,641

11,031



5300 24th Avenue NE

San Gabriel, CA

-

3,120

15,566


3,120

15,901

1,825



8332 Huntington Drive

Schaumburg, IL

-

2,460

22,863


2,471

23,451

3,195



790 North Plum Grove Road

Shelburne, VT

19,865


31,041

1,199


32,204

4,211



687 Harbor Road

Sidcup, England

-

9,773

56,163

13,642

9,365

70,213

10,379



Frognal Avenue

San Juan Capistrano, CA

-

1,390

6,942


1,390

7,898

2,737



30311 Camino Capistrano

St-Jerome, QC

-

-

-

-

-

-




475 Aubry

Spokane, WA

-

3,200

25,064


3,200

25,287

3,698



3117 E. Chaser Lane

Spokane, WA

-

2,580

25,342


2,580

25,442

3,501



1110 E. Westview Ct.

Stockport, England

-

5,516

31,307

-

5,516

31,307

4,465



1 Dairyground Road

Salt Lake City, UT

-

1,360

19,691


1,360

20,281

4,418



1430 E. 4500 S.

Santa Monica, CA

20,302

5,250

28,340


5,250

28,693

2,958



1312 15th Street

Sonning, England

-

7,099

53,058

-

7,099

53,058

5,801



Old Bath Rd.

San Jose, CA

-

2,850

35,098


2,850

35,256

4,353



1420 Curvi Drive

San Jose, CA

-

3,280

46,823


3,280

47,379

5,789



500 S Winchester Boulevard

Sunnyvale, CA

-

5,420

41,682


5,420

42,118

5,573



1039 East El Camino Real

Solihull, England

-

4,510

32,605

-

4,510

32,605

4,020



1 Worcester Way

Surrey, BC

-

-

-

-

-

-




13853 102nd Avenue

Surrey, BC

8,833

4,298

21,938

-

4,298

21,938

4,286



16028 83rd Avenue

Surrey, BC

4,182

5,431

26,369

-

5,431

26,369

4,637



15501 16th Avenue

Salisbury, England

-

3,435

19,365

-

3,435

19,365




Shapland Close

Saskatoon, SK

5,365

1,168

16,235

-

1,168

16,235

1,631



220 24th Street East

Saskatoon, SK

12,366

1,647

20,530

-

1,647

20,530

2,096



1622 Acadia Drive

Stittsville, ON

5,946

1,529

17,762

2,581

1,402

20,470

2,075



1340 - 1354 Main Street

Santa Maria, CA

-

6,050

50,658


6,063

51,229

9,445



1220 Suey Road

Shelby Township, MI

16,789

1,040

26,344


1,093

26,607

2,539



46471 Hayes Road

Sugar Land, TX

5,460


31,423

1,240


32,662

5,389



1221 Seventh St

Sevenoaks, England

-

7,804

50,524

-

7,804

50,524

6,799



64 - 70 Westerham Road

Simi Valley, CA

-

3,200

16,664


3,200

16,951

2,728



190 Tierra Rejada Road

South Windsor, CT

-

3,000

29,295

1,185

3,052

30,429

5,686



432 Buckland Road

Suwanee, GA

-

1,560

11,538


1,560

11,960

1,742



4315 Johns Creek Parkway

Sway, England

-

5,234

19,285

-

5,234

19,285




Sway Place

Tacoma, WA

18,640

2,400

35,053


2,446

35,150

4,399



7290 Rosemount Circle

Tucson, AZ

4,698


6,179

3,305


9,484




5660 N. Kolb Road

Tucson, AZ

-

-


-

-


-



6231 N Montebella Road

Toledo, OH

15,741

2,040

47,129

1,454

2,144

48,478

9,208



3501 Executive Parkway

Toronto, ON

-

-

-

-

-

-




10 Senlac

Toronto, ON

1,901

1,287

6,247

-

1,287

6,247




25 Centennial Park Road

Toronto, ON

10,411

2,998

23,165

-

2,998

23,165

1,797



305 Balliol Street

Toronto, ON

22,708

4,055

38,437

-

4,055

38,437

5,038



1055 and 1057 Don Mills Road

Toronto, ON

1,480

1,767

2,730


1,622

3,248




3705 Bathurst Street

Toronto, ON

2,399

1,851

3,785


1,726

4,499




1340 York Mills Road

Toronto, ON

40,022

6,321

62,703

-

6,321

62,703

8,315



8 The Donway East

Trumbull, CT

24,647

2,850

37,685


2,906

38,376

6,994



2750 Reservoir Avenue

Tustin, CA

6,827


15,299



15,442

2,087



240 East 3rd St

Tulsa, OK

6,129

1,330

21,285

1,108

1,350

22,373

3,860



8887 South Lewis Ave

Tulsa, OK

8,010

1,500

20,861


1,515

21,820

4,159



9524 East 71st St

Upper St Claire, PA

-

1,102

13,455


1,102

13,861

1,999



500 Village Drive

Virginia Water, England

-

7,106

29,937

7,313

6,823

37,534

4,708



Christ Church Road

Vankleek Hill, ON

1,414


3,448

-


3,448




48 Wall Street

Victoria, BC

-

3,189

16,793

-

3,189

16,793

2,708



2638 Ross Lane

Victoria, BC

9,277

3,405

21,327

-

3,405

21,327

3,221



3000 Shelbourne Street

Victoria, BC

8,553

4,359

18,642

-

4,359

18,642

2,889



3051 Shelbourne Street

Victoriaville, QC

-

-

-

-

-

-




222 Notre Dame West

Warwick, RI

15,941

2,400

24,635


2,407

25,487

5,498



75 Minnesota Avenue

Wayland, MA

-

1,207

27,462


1,307

28,226

3,064



285 Commonwealth Road

West Babylon, NY

-

3,960

47,085


3,960

47,346

4,438



580 Montauk Highway

West Bloomfield, MI

-

1,040

12,300


1,040

12,646

1,411



7005 Pontiac Trail

Waterbury, CT

24,709

2,460

39,547


2,495

40,462

10,223



180 Scott Road

Woodland Hills, CA

-

3,400

20,478


3,406

20,849

2,797



20461 Ventura Boulevard

The Woodlands, TX

2,477


12,379



12,584

1,892



7950 Bay Branch Dr

Weybridge, England

-

9,954

60,475

-

9,954

60,475

8,851



Ellesmere Road

Wilmington, DE

-

1,040

23,338


1,040

23,743

2,618



2215 Shipley Street

West Hills, CA

-

2,600

7,521


2,600

7,836

1,565



9012 Topanga Canyon Road

White Oak, MD

-

2,304

24,768


2,304

25,342

2,376



11621 New Hampshire Avenue

Wilbraham, MA

11,159


17,639



18,182

2,796



2387 Boston Road

Walnut Creek, CA

-

3,700

12,467


3,723

13,169

2,234



2175 Ygnacio Valley Road

Wolverhampton, England

-

3,708

10,876

-

3,708

10,876

2,217



73 Wergs Road

Winchester, England

-

7,587

36,990

-

7,587

36,990

4,347



Stockbridge Road

Windsor, ON

-

-

-

-

-

-




590 Grand Marais Road East

Winnipeg, MB

16,462

2,335

45,398

-

2,335

45,398

6,374



857 Wilkes Avenue

Winnipeg, MB

9,630

1,516

25,633

-

1,516

25,633

3,092



3161 Grant Avenue

Woodbridge, CT

-

1,370

14,219


1,391

14,974

3,689



21 Bradley Road

Worcester, MA

13,979

1,140

21,664


1,152

22,273

3,422



340 May Street

Washington, DC

32,699

4,000

69,154


4,000

69,593

7,335



5111 Connecticut Avenue NW

Westbourne, England

-

6,858

51,920

-

6,858

51,920

5,870



16-18 Poole Road

Weston, MA

-

1,160

6,200


1,160

6,647




135 North Avenue

West Vancouver, BC

23,475

9,128

32,217


8,421

33,028

4,501



2095 Marine Drive

Weymouth, England


3,271

21,011

-

3,271

21,011




Cross Road

Yarmouth, ME

17,412


27,711



28,086

4,026



27 Forest Falls Drive

Yorkton, SK

4,172


10,218

-


10,218

1,252



94 Russell Drive

Yonkers, NY

-

3,962

50,107


3,967

50,459

5,226



65 Crisfield Street

Seniors Housing Operating Total

$

1,654,531

$

773,492

$

8,293,454

$

348,816

$

788,969

$

8,626,789

$

1,110,393



Health Care REIT, Inc.

Schedule III

Real Estate and
  Accumulated Depreciation

December 31, 2014

(Dollars in thousands)

Initial Cost to Company

Gross Amount at Which
  Carried at Close of Period

Description

Encumbrances

Land

Building &
  Improvements

Cost Capitalized
  Subsequent to Acquisition

Land

Building &
  Improvements

Accumulated Depreciation

(1)

Year Acquired

Year Built

Address

Medical Facilities:

Akron, OH

$

-

$


$

12,105

$

-

$


$

12,105

$

1,086



701 White Pond Drive

Allen, TX

12,080


14,196

-


14,196

2,325



1105 N Central Expressway

Alpharetta, GA

-


18,902

-


18,902

2,978



3400-A Old Milton Parkway

Alpharetta, GA

-

1,769

36,256

-

1,769

36,256

6,603



3400-C Old Milton Parkway

Alpharetta, GA

-


14,757

-


14,757

2,515



11975 Morris Road

Alpharetta, GA

-

1,862

-

-

1,862

-

-



940 North Point Parkway

Alpharetta, GA

-


17,103

-


17,103

3,361



3300 Old Milton Parkway

Arcadia, CA

-

5,408

23,219

2,636

5,618

25,644

6,927



301 W. Huntington Drive

Arlington, TX

-


18,243

-


18,243




902 W. Randol Mill Road

Atlanta, GA

-

4,931

18,720

4,611

5,348

22,914

7,351



755 Mt. Vernon Hwy.

Atlanta, GA

17,260

1,947

24,248

-

1,947

24,248

2,989



975 Johnson Ferry Road

Atlanta, GA

26,086

-

43,425

-

-

43,425

7,248



5670 Peachtree-Dunwoody Road

Bartlett, TN

7,895


15,015

1,619


16,634

4,657



2996 Kate Bond Rd.

Bellevue, NE

-

-

16,680

-

-

16,680

2,780



2510 Bellevue Medical Center Drive

Bettendorf, IA

-

-

7,110

-

-

7,110




2140 53rd Avenue

Birmingham, AL

-


10,201

-


10,201

2,826



801 Princeton Avenue SW

Birmingham, AL

-


12,492

-


12,492

3,287



817 Princeton Avenue SW

Birmingham, AL

-


19,864

-


19,864

5,231



833 Princeton Avenue SW

Boardman, OH

-


12,165

-


12,165

2,489



8423 Market St

Boca Raton, FL

-


34,002

2,278


36,175

9,947



9970 S. Central Park Blvd.

Boca Raton, FL

-


12,312

-


12,312

1,451



9960 S. Central Park Boulevard

Boerne, TX

-


13,541

-


13,541

2,436



134 Menger Springs Road

Boynton Beach, FL

-

2,048

7,692


2,048

8,194

2,745



8188 Jog Rd.

Boynton Beach, FL

-

2,048

7,403

1,078

2,048

8,480

2,564



8200 Jog Road

Boynton Beach, FL

5,650


5,611

7,919


13,627

3,601



10075 Jog Rd.

Boynton Beach, FL

26,001

13,324

40,369

-

13,324

40,369

3,152



10301 Hagen Ranch Road

Bradenton, FL

-

1,184

9,799

-

1,184

9,799




315 75th Street West

Bradenton, FL

-

1,035

4,298

-

1,035

4,298




7005 Cortez Road West

Bridgeton, MO

10,670


21,272

-


21,272

4,139



12266 DePaul Dr

Burleson, TX

-


12,611

-


12,611

1,885



12001 South Freeway

Burnsville, MN

-

-

32,168

-

-

32,168




14101 Fairview Dr

Carmel, IN

-

2,280

19,238

-

2,280

19,238

4,264



12188-A North Meridian Street

Carmel, IN

-

2,026

21,559

-

2,026

21,559

5,597



12188-B North Meridian Street

Castle Rock, CO

-


13,004

-


13,004




2352 Meadows Boulevard

Cedar Grove, WI

-



-






313 S. Main St.

Charleston, SC

-

2,773

25,928

-

2,773

25,928




325 Folly Road

Cincinnati, OH

-

-

17,880

-

-

17,880




3301 Mercy West Boulevard

Claremore, OK

7,873


12,829



13,236

3,898



1501 N. Florence Ave.

Clarkson Valley, MO

-

-

35,592

-

-

35,592

6,773



15945 Clayton Rd

Clear Lake, TX

-

-

14,027

-

-

14,027




1010 South Ponds Drive

Columbia, MD

-

2,291

19,841

-

2,291

19,841

1,974



10700 Charter Drive

Columbus, OH

-


7,646

-


7,646

1,375



750 Mt. Carmel Mall

Coon Rapids, MN

-

-

26,679

-

-

26,679




11850 Blackfoot Street NW

Coral Springs, FL

-

1,598

10,627

1,276

1,636

11,865

4,092



1725 N. University Dr.

Dade City, FL

-

1,211

5,511

-

1,211

5,511




13413 US Hwy 301

Dallas, TX

14,247


28,690

2,150


30,841

8,751



9330 Poppy Dr.

Dallas, TX

28,450


52,488

-


52,488

5,173



7115 Greenville Avenue

Dayton, OH

-


6,937

-


6,937

1,342



1530 Needmore Road

Deerfield Beach, FL

-

2,408

7,809

-

2,408

7,809

1,943



1192 East Newport Center Drive

Delray Beach, FL

-

1,882

34,767

5,402

2,064

39,987

12,678



5130-5150 Linton Blvd.

Durham, NC

-

1,212

22,858

-

1,212

22,858




1823 Hillandale Road

Edina, MN

-


15,132

-


15,132

2,572



8100 W 78th St

El Paso, TX

9,558


17,075

2,045


19,120

6,157



2400 Trawood Dr.

Everett, WA

-

4,842

26,010

-

4,842

26,010

3,806



13020 Meridian Ave. S.

Fayetteville, GA

-


7,540



8,281

2,485



1275 Hwy. 54 W.

Fenton, MO

11,880


27,485

-


27,485

1,594



1011 Bowles Avenue

Fenton, MO

5,733


13,911

-


13,911




1055 Bowles Avenue

Flower Mound, TX

-

4,164

27,529

-

4,164

27,529




4370 Medical Arts Drive

Flower Mound, TX

-

5,980

-

-

5,980

-

-



Medical Arts Drive

Fort Wayne, IN

16,378

1,105

22,836

-

1,105

22,836

2,090



7916 Jefferson Boulevard

Fort Worth, TX

-


26,020

-


26,020




10840 Texas Health Trail

Fort Worth, TX

-


6,099

-


6,099




7200 Oakmont Boulevard

Franklin, TN

-

2,338

12,138

2,074

2,338

14,212

3,865



100 Covey Drive

Franklin, WI

5,061

6,872

7,550

-

6,872

7,550

1,398



9200 W. Loomis Rd.

Frisco, TX

-

-

18,635

1,164

-

19,799

5,186



4401 Coit Road

Frisco, TX

-

-

15,309

2,112

-

17,421

5,281



4461 Coit Road

Gallatin, TN

-


21,801

-


21,801

4,600



300 Steam Plant Rd

Germantown, TN

-

3,049

12,456


3,049

13,193

3,655



1325 Wolf Park Drive

Glendale, CA

-


18,398



19,142

4,717



222 W. Eulalia St.

Grand Prairie, TX

-


6,086

-


6,086




2740 N State Hwy 360

Grapevine, TX

5,548

-

5,943

-

-

5,943

-



2040 W State Hwy 114

Grapevine, TX

10,044

-

22,557

-

-

22,557

-



2020 W State Hwy 114

Green Bay, WI

7,635

-

14,891

-

-

14,891

2,435



2253 W. Mason St.

Green Bay, WI

-

-

20,098

-

-

20,098

3,224



2845 Greenbrier Road

Green Bay, WI

-

-

11,696

-

-

11,696

2,606



2845 Greenbrier Road

Greeneville, TN

-


10,131

-


10,131

1,918



438 East Vann Rd

Greenwood, IN

-

8,316

26,384

-

8,316

26,384

2,648



1260 Innovation Parkway

Greenwood, IN

-

1,262

7,045

-

1,262

7,045




333 E County Line Road

Grenwood, IN

-

2,098

21,538

-

2,098

21,538




3000 S State Road 135

Harker Heights, TX

-

1,907

3,575

-

1,907

3,575




E Central Texas Expressway

High Point, NC

-

2,659

29,069

-

2,659

29,069

2,345



4515 Premier Drive

Highland, IL

-

-

8,834

-

-

8,834




12860 Troxler Avenue

Houston, TX

-

10,403

-

-

10,403

-




15655 Cypress Woods Medical Drive

Houston, TX

-

5,837

33,128

-

5,837

33,128

4,677



15655 Cypress Woods Medical Drive

Houston, TX

-

3,688

13,313

-

3,688

13,313

1,318



10701 Vintage Preserve Parkway

Houston, TX

-

3,102

32,323

-

3,102

32,323




1900 N Loop W Freeway

Houston, TX

14,000


31,932

-


31,932

4,534



18100 St John Drive

Houston, TX

-


10,617

-


10,617

1,461



2060 Space Park Drive

Houston, TX

-

-

-

58,173

12,815

45,359

4,159



2727 W Holcombe Boulevard

Hudson, OH

-

2,587

13,720

-

2,587

13,720

1,695



5655 Hudson Drive

Humble, TX

-

-

10,358

-

-

10,358




8233 N. Sam Houston Parkway E.

Jackson, MI

-


17,367

-


17,367

1,015



1201 E Michigan Avenue

Jupiter, FL

6,655

2,252

11,415


2,252

11,878

3,426



550 Heritage Dr.

Jupiter, FL

-

2,825

5,858


2,825

6,271

2,027



600 Heritage Dr.

Katy, TX

-

1,099

1,604

-

1,099

1,604




21660 Kingsland Blvd

Kenosha, WI

8,312

-

18,058

-

-

18,058

2,891



10400 75th St.

Killeen, TX

-


22,878

-


22,878

3,975



2405 Clear Creek Rd

Kyle, TX

-

2,569

14,384

-

2,569

14,384




135 Bunton Road

La Quinta, CA

-

3,266

22,066

-

3,266

22,066




47647 Caleo Bay Drive

Lake St Louis, MO

-


14,249

-


14,249

2,693



400 Medical Dr

Lakeway, TX

-

2,801

-

-

2,801

-

-



Lohmans Crossing Road

Lakewood, CA

-


14,885

1,732


16,617

4,188



5750 Downey Ave.

Lakewood, WA

7,242


16,058

-


16,058

1,247



11307 Bridgeport Way SW

Las Vegas, NV

-

2,319

4,612

1,021

2,319

5,632

1,722



2870 S. Maryland Pkwy.

Las Vegas, NV

-


15,287

1,022


16,310

4,510



1815 E. Lake Mead Blvd.

Las Vegas, NV

-


6,921



7,133

2,166



1776 E. Warm Springs Rd.

Las Vegas, NV

-

6,127

-

-

6,127

-

-



SW corner of Deer Springs Way and Riley Street

Lenexa, KS

-


17,926

-


17,926

2,622



23401 Prairie Star Pkwy

Lenexa, KS

-


14,364

-


14,364




23351 Prairie Star Parkway

Lincoln, NE

-

1,420

29,723

-

1,420

29,723

6,423



575 South 70th St

Los Alamitos, CA

-


18,635

1,141


19,776

5,018



3771 Katella Ave.

Los Gatos, CA

-


22,386

1,402


23,787

7,422



555 Knowles Dr.

Loxahatchee, FL

-

1,637

5,048


1,719

5,875

1,752



12977 Southern Blvd.

Loxahatchee, FL

-

1,340

6,509


1,345

6,976

1,993



12989 Southern Blvd.

Loxahatchee, FL

-

1,553

4,694

1,057

1,650

5,654

1,561



12983 Southern Blvd.

Marinette, WI

6,576

-

13,538

-

-

13,538

2,607



4061 Old Peshtigo Rd.

Melbourne, FL

-

3,439

50,461

-

3,439

50,461

1,053



2222 South Harbor City Boulevard

Merced, CA

-

-

14,699

-

-

14,699

2,691



315 Mercy Ave.

Merriam, KS

-

1,226

25,099

-

1,226

25,099

1,265



9301 West 74th Street

Merriam, KS

-


8,005

-


8,005

2,066



8800 West 75th Street

Merriam, KS

-


3,849

-


3,849




7301 Frontage Street

Merriam, KS

-


13,318

-


13,318

3,022



8901 West 74th Street

Merriam, KS

14,689


8,144

-


8,144

1,722



9119 West 74th Street

Merrillville, IN

-

-

22,134


-

22,573

4,326



101 E. 87th Ave.

Mesa, AZ

-

1,558

9,561


1,558

9,966

3,338



6424 East Broadway Road

Mesquite, TX

-


3,834

-


3,834




1575 I-30

Milwaukee, WI

3,460


8,457

-


8,457

1,464



1218 W. Kilbourn Ave.

Milwaukee, WI

9,178

1,425

11,520

-

1,425

11,520

2,601



3301-3355 W. Forest Home Ave.

Milwaukee, WI

2,296


2,185

-


2,185




840 N. 12th St.

Milwaukee, WI

19,208

-

44,535

-

-

44,535

6,974



2801 W. Kinnickinnic Pkwy.

Mission Hills, CA

25,500

-

42,276

-

-

42,276




11550 Indian Hills Road

Moline, IL

-

-

8,783

-

-

8,783




3900 28th Avenue Drive

Monticello, MN

8,860


18,489

-


18,489

1,324



1001 Hart Boulevard

Moorestown, NJ

-

-

50,927

-

-

50,927

4,272



401  Young Avenue

Morrow, GA

-


8,064



8,270

2,848



6635 Lake Drive

Mount Juliet, TN

3,524

1,566

11,697

1,099

1,566

12,796

3,818



5002 Crossings Circle

Mount Vernon, IL

-

-

24,892

-

-

24,892

2,150



4121 Veterans Memorial Dr

Murrieta, CA

-

-

47,190

-

-

47,190

8,677



28078 Baxter Rd.

Murrieta, CA

-

3,800

-

-

3,800

-

-



28078 Baxter Rd.

Muskego, WI

1,104


2,159

-


2,159




S74 W16775 Janesville Rd.

Nashville, TN

-

1,806

7,165

1,715

1,806

8,880

3,009



310 25th Ave. N.

New Albany, IN

-

2,411

16,494

-

2,411

16,494




2210 Green Valley Road

New Berlin, WI

4,256

3,739

8,290

-

3,739

8,290

1,440



14555 W. National Ave.

Niagara Falls, NY

-

1,433

10,891

-

1,433

10,891

3,761



6932 - 6934 Williams Rd

Niagara Falls, NY

-


8,500

-


8,500

2,070



6930 Williams Rd

Oklahoma City, OK

-


19,135

-


19,135

1,270



535 NW 9th Street

Orange Village, OH

-


7,419



7,941

2,371



3755 Orange Place

Oro Valley, AZ

9,613


18,339



18,905

4,826



1521 E. Tangerine Rd.

Oshkosh, WI

-

-

18,339

-

-

18,339

2,913



855 North Wethaven Dr.

Oshkosh, WI

8,135

-

15,881

-

-

15,881

2,496



855 North Wethaven Dr.

Palm Springs, FL

2,545


4,066



4,552

1,496



1640 S. Congress Ave.

Palm Springs, FL

-

1,182

7,765


1,182

8,269

2,645



1630 S. Congress Ave.

Palmer, AK

18,660


29,705

1,042


30,747

7,584



2490 South Woodworth Loop

Pasadena, TX

-

1,700

8,009

-

1,700

8,009




5001 E Sam Houston Parkway S

Pearland, TX

-

1,500

11,253

-

1,500

11,253




2515 Business Center Drive

Pearland, TX

-

9,594

32,753

-

9,594

32,753




11511 Shadow Creek Parkway

Pendleton, OR

-

-

10,324

-

-

10,324




3001 St. Anthony Drive

Phoenix, AZ

(0)

1,149

48,018

11,396

1,149

59,415

16,360



2222 E. Highland Ave.

Pineville, NC

-


6,974

2,369

1,077

9,228

2,853



10512 Park Rd.

Plano, TX

-

5,423

20,752


5,423

21,037

8,288



6957 Plano Parkway

Plano, TX

53,236


83,209

-


83,209

10,534



6020 West Parker Road

Plantation, FL

8,988

8,563

10,666

2,536

8,575

13,190

5,098



851-865 SW 78th Ave.

Plantation, FL

8,342

8,848

9,262


8,908

9,539

5,463



600 Pine Island Rd.

Plymouth, WI

1,288

1,250

1,870

-

1,250

1,870




2636 Eastern Ave.

Portland, ME

-


25,930

-


25,930

3,770



195 Fore River Parkway

Redmond, WA

-

5,015

26,709

-

5,015

26,709

4,096



18000 NE Union Hill Rd.

Reno, NV

-

1,117

21,972

1,144

1,117

23,116

6,412



343 Elm St.

Richmond, VA

-

2,969

26,697

-

2,969

26,697

2,893



7001 Forest Avenue

Rockwall, TX

-


17,197

-


17,197

2,223



3142 Horizon Road

Rogers, AR

-

1,062

29,400

-

1,062

29,400

4,474



2708 Rife Medical Lane

Rolla, MO

-

1,931

47,639

-

1,931

47,639

5,648



1605 Martin Spring Drive

Roswell, NM

1,535


5,851

-


5,851




601 West Country Club Road

Roswell, NM

4,413


15,984

-


15,984

2,040



350 West Country Club Road

Roswell, NM

-


17,171

-


17,171

1,750



300 West Country Club Road

Sacramento, CA

-


12,756

1,727


14,483

3,868



8120 Timberlake Way

Salem, NH

-

1,655

14,050

-

1,655

14,050




31 Stiles Road

San Antonio, TX

18,400

4,518

31,041

-

4,518

31,041

5,074



5282 Medical Drive

San Antonio, TX

-


17,288

-


17,288




3903 Wiseman Boulevard

San Antonio, TX

-

1,012

10,545

-

1,012

10,545

3,142



19016 Stone Oak Pkwy.

San Antonio, TX

-

1,038

9,264

-

1,038

9,264

4,032



540 Stone Oak Centre Drive

Santa Clarita, CA

-

-

28,384

-

-

28,384




23929 McBean Parkway

Santa Clarita, CA

-

-

2,222

-

-

2,222




23871 McBean Parkway

Santa Clarita, CA

25,000

-

41,151

-

-

41,151




23803 McBean Parkway

Santa Clarita, CA

-

-

20,618

-

-

20,618




24355 Lyons Avenue

Santa Clarita, CA

-

9,835

-

-

9,835

-

-



23861 McBean Parkway

Santa Clarita, CA

-

-

2,338

-

-

2,338




23861 McBean Parkway

Santa Clarita, CA

-

-

2,318

-

-

2,318




23861 McBean Parkway

Santa Clarita, CA

-

-

2,318

-

-

2,318




23861 McBean Parkway

Santa Clarita, CA

-

-

2,318

-

-

2,318




23861 McBean Parkway

Santa Clarita, CA

-

-

13,124

-

-

13,124




23861 McBean Parkway

Sarasota, FL

-


47,325

-


47,325

4,592



1921 Waldemere Street

Seattle, WA

-

4,410

38,428

-

4,410

38,428

6,658



5350 Tallman Ave

Sewell, NJ

-


57,929

-


57,929

13,498



239 Hurffville-Cross Keys Road

Shakopee, MN

6,556


11,412

-


11,412

2,207



1515 St Francis Ave

Shakopee, MN

11,094


18,089

-


18,089

2,503



1601 St Francis Ave

Sheboygan, WI

1,779

1,012

2,216

-

1,012

2,216




1813 Ashland Ave.

Shenandoah, TX

-

-

21,653

-

-

21,653

-



106 Vision Park Boulevard

Sherman Oaks, CA

-

-

32,186

-

-

32,186




4955 Van Nuys Boulevard

Somerville, NJ

-

3,400

22,244


3,400

22,246

3,569



30 Rehill Avenue

Southlake, TX

11,680


18,243

-


18,243

2,327



1545 East Southlake Boulevard

Southlake, TX

18,054


30,549

-


30,549

3,182



1545 East Southlake Boulevard

Southlake, TX

-

3,000

-

-

3,000

-

-



Central Avenue

St Paul, MN

-


37,695

-


37,695




225 Smith Avenue N.

St. Louis, MO

-


17,247

1,031


18,278

4,984



2325 Dougherty Rd.

St. Paul, MN

25,253

2,706

39,507

-

2,706

39,507

5,864



435 Phalen Boulevard

Suffern, NY

-


37,255

-


37,255

4,974



255 Lafayette Avenue

Suffolk, VA

-

1,566

11,511

-

1,566

11,511

2,823



5838 Harbour View Blvd.

Sugar Land, TX

8,522

3,543

15,532

-

3,543

15,532

1,761



11555 University Boulevard

Summit, WI

-

2,899

87,666

-

2,899

87,666

19,308



36500 Aurora Dr.

Tacoma, WA

-

-

64,307

-

-

64,307

5,493



1608 South J Street

Tallahassee, FL

-

-

17,449

-

-

17,449

2,815



One Healing Place

Tampa, FL

-

1,212

19,643

-

1,212

19,643

2,548



3000 Medical Park Drive

Tampa, FL

-

2,208

6,491

-

2,208

6,491

1,303



3000 E. Fletcher Avenue

Tampa, FL

-

4,319

12,234

-

4,319

12,234

1,292



14547 Bruce B Downs Blvd

Temple, TX

-

2,900

9,954

-

2,900

9,954




2601 Thornton Lane

Tucson, AZ

-

1,302

4,925


1,302

5,749

1,906



2055 W. Hospital Dr.

Van Nuys, CA

-

-

36,187

-

-

36,187

5,468



6815 Noble Ave.

Virginia Beach, VA

-


19,168

-


19,168

3,725



828 Health Way

Voorhees, NJ

-

6,404

24,251

1,387

6,477

25,564

6,638



900 Centennial Blvd.

Voorhees, NJ

-


96,075

-


96,075

10,205



200 Bowman Drive

Wellington, FL

-


16,933

1,880


18,813

4,290



10115 Forest Hill Blvd.

Wellington, FL

-


13,697



14,111

3,470



1395 State Rd. 7

West Allis, WI

3,267

1,106

3,309

-

1,106

3,309




11333 W. National Ave.

West Palm Beach, FL

-


14,740



14,861

4,448



5325 Greenwood Ave.

West Palm Beach, FL

-


14,618



15,023

4,853



927 45th St.

West Seneca, NY

-


22,435

2,114

1,642

23,824

6,666



550 Orchard Park Rd

Westerville, OH

-

2,122

5,641

-

2,122

5,641




444 N Cleveland Avenue

Zephyrhills, FL

-

3,875

27,270

-

3,875

27,270

3,134



38135 Market Square Dr

Medical facilities total:

$

609,268

$

330,140

$

4,143,585

$

142,524

$

345,036

$

4,271,211

$

648,096


Assets held for sale:

Bellaire, TX

$

-

$

4,551

$

46,105

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-



5410 W. Loop S.

Bellaire, TX

-

2,972

33,445

-

-

-

-



5420 W. Loop S.

Denton, TX

-

-

19,407

-

-

-

-



2900 North I-35

Stafford, VA

-

-

11,260

-

-

9,422

-



125 Hospital Center Blvd

Bellevue, NE

-

4,500

109,719

-

-

101,627

-



2500 Bellevue Medical Center Dr

Bridgeton, MO

-

-

30,221

-

-

-

-



12380 DePaul Drive

Akron, OH

-


20,200

-

-

-

-



200 E. Market St.

Amelia Island, FL

-

3,290

24,310

-

-

-

-



48 Osprey Village Dr.

Austin, TX

9,658


18,970

-

-

15,750

-



3200 W. Slaughter Lane

Bellevue, WI

-

1,740

18,260

-

-

16,473

-



1660 Hoffman Rd.

Baytown, TX

9,059


6,150

-

-

4,360

-



3921 N. Main St.

Baytown, TX

-


11,110

-

-

9,987

-



2000 West Baker Lane

Corpus Christi, TX

-


1,916

-

-

-

-



1101 S. Alameda

DeForest, WI

-


5,350

-

-

4,862

-



6902 Parkside Circle

Denver, CO

-

2,530

9,514

-

-

-

-



3701 W. Radcliffe Ave.

Frisco, TX

-


16,445

-

-

-

-



2990 Legacy Drive

Grand Blanc, MI

-


7,843

-

-

-

-



5400 East Baldwin

Greenfield, WI

-


6,626

-

-

6,337

-



3933 S. Prairie Hill Lane

Greenville, SC

-

5,400

100,523

-

-

-

-



10 Fountainview Terrace

Houston, TX

9,656


18,715

-

-

15,927

-



8702 South Course Drive

Houston, TX

10,002


5,970

-

-

4,978

-



3625 Green Crest Dr.

Kenosha, WI

-

1,500

9,139

-

-

9,197

-



6300 67th Street

Lapeer, MI

-


7,625

-

-

-

-



2323 Demille Road

Melbourne, FL

-

2,540

21,319

-

-

-

-



3260 N Harbor City Blvd

McHenry, IL

-

3,550

15,300

3,012

-

21,862

-



3300 Charles Miller Rd.

Merrillville, IN

-


7,084

-

-

-

-



101 W. 87th Ave.

Merrillville, IN

-

1,080

3,413

-

-

-

-



300 W. 89th Ave.

Mount Airy, NC

-


6,430

-

-

-

-



1000 Ridgecrest Lane

Murrieta, CA

-

8,800

202,412

-

-

-

-



28062 Baxter Road

Myrtle Beach, SC

-

6,890

41,526

-

-

-

-



101 Brightwater Dr.

Neenah, WI

-


15,120

-

-

14,126

-



131 E. North Water St.

Oshkosh, WI

-


3,800

2,178

-

6,878

-



711 Bayshore Drive

Oshkosh, WI

-


23,237

-

-

20,069

-



631 Hazel Street

Overland Park, KS

-

1,120

8,360

-

-

-

-



7541 Switzer St.

Pasadena, TX

9,679


24,080

-

-

19,862

-



3434 Watters Rd.

Pawleys Island, SC

-

2,020

32,590

-

-

-

-



120 Lakes at Litchfield Dr.

Scituate, MA

-

1,740

10,640

-

-

-

-



309 Driftway

Sheboygan, WI

-


5,320

2,203

-

7,603

-



4221 Kadlec Dr.

Saint Simons Island, GA

-

6,440

50,060

-

-

-

-



136 Marsh's Edge Lane

San Antonio, TX

10,455


7,315

-

-

5,190

-



5437 Eisenhaur Rd.

San Antonio, TX

9,637


13,360

-

-

11,138

-



8503 Mystic Park

Spartanburg, SC

-

3,350

15,750

-

-

-

-



110 Summit Hills Dr.

Tucson, AZ

-


13,399

-

-

-

-



6211 N. La Cholla Blvd.

Waukesha, WI

-

1,100

14,910

-

-

14,042

-



400 Merrill Hills Rd.

Webster, TX

9,210


5,940

-

-

4,128

-



17231 Mill Forest

Winston-Salem, NC

$

-

$

5,700

$

13,550

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-



2101 Homestead Hills

Assets held for sale total

$

77,355

$

82,756

$

1,093,737

$

7,393

$

-

$

323,818

-


Summary:

Seniors housing triple-net

$

593,414

$

900,397

$

9,683,752

$

365,636

$

912,536

$

10,037,249

$

1,262,419

Seniors housing operating

1,654,531

773,492

8,293,454

348,816

788,969

8,626,789

1,110,393

Medical facilities

609,268

330,140

4,143,585

142,524

345,036

4,271,211

648,096

Construction in progress

-

-

186,327

-

-

186,327

-

Total continuing operating properties

2,857,213

2,004,029

22,307,118

856,976

2,046,541

23,121,576

3,020,908

Assets held for sale

77,355

82,756

1,093,737

7,393

-

323,818

-

Total investments in real property owned

$

2,934,568

$

2,086,785

$

23,400,855

$

864,369

$

2,046,541

$

23,445,394

$

3,020,908

(1) Please see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements
  for information regarding lives used for depreciation and amortization.

(2) Represents real property asset associated with a capital
  lease.


Year
  Ended December 31,




Reconciliation of real property:

(in
  thousands)

Investment in real estate:

Balance at beginning of year

$

23,734,733

$

18,082,399

$

14,844,319

Additions:

Acquisitions

2,210,600

3,597,955

2,923,251

Improvements

380,298

408,844

449,964

Assumed other items, net

160,897

772,972

108,404

Assumed debt

265,152

1,340,939

481,598

Total additions

3,016,947

6,154,628

3,969,299

Deductions:

Cost of real estate sold

(916,997)

(498,564)

(581,696)

Reclassification of accumulated depreciation and amortization
  for assets held for sale

(64,476)

(3,730)

(120,236)

Impairment of assets

-

-

(29,287)

Total deductions

(981,473)

(502,294)

(731,219)

Foreign currency translation

(278,272)

33,918

6,082

Balance at end of year

(3)

$

25,491,935

$

23,734,733

$

18,082,399

Accumulated depreciation:

Balance at beginning of year

$

2,386,658

$

1,555,055

$

1,194,476

Additions:

Depreciation and amortization expenses

844,130

873,960

533,585

Amortization of above market leases

7,935

7,831

7,204

Total additions

852,065

881,791

540,789

Deductions:

Sale of properties

(123,582)

(49,625)

(59,974)

Reclassification of accumulated depreciation and amortization
  for assets held for sale

(64,476)

(3,730)

(120,236)

Total deductions

(188,058)

(53,355)

(180,210)

Foreign currency translation

(29,757)

3,167

-

Balance at end of year

$

3,020,908

$

2,386,658

$

1,555,055

(3) The aggregate
  cost for tax purposes for real property equals $21,621,760,000,
  $20,260,297,000, and $14,788,080,000 at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012,
  respectively.


Health Care REIT, Inc.

Schedule
  IV - Mortgage Loans on Real Estate

December
  31, 2014

(in
  thousands)

Location

Segment

Interest
  Rate

Final
  Maturity Date

Monthly
  Payment Terms

Prior
  Liens

Face
  Amount of Mortgages

Carrying
  Amount of Mortgages

Principal
  Amount of Loans Subject to Delinquent Principal or Interest

First mortgages relating to 1 property
  located in:

California

Medical office buildings

6.08%

12/22/17

$

314,464

$

-

$

65,000

$

60,902

$

-

United Kingdom

Seniors housing triple-net

7.00%

04/19/18

126,205

-

22,588

21,258

-

United Kingdom

Seniors housing triple-net

7.00%

11/21/18

110,898

-

21,653

18,912

-

Massachusetts

Seniors housing triple-net

7.86%

12/31/16

112,065

-

21,000

16,787

-

United Kingdom

Seniors housing triple-net

7.00%

12/31/19

19,605

-

28,664

4,264

-

Texas

Seniors housing triple-net

7.75%

10/31/18

26,419

-

8,800

4,014

-

Texas

Seniors housing triple-net

7.75%

10/31/18

20,734

-

8,800

3,150

-

United Kingdom

Seniors housing triple-net

8.50%

05/01/16

11,930

-

10,601

1,534

-

United Kingdom

Seniors housing triple-net

7.54%

07/31/15

9,605

-

3,116

1,500

-

Oklahoma

Seniors housing triple-net

8.11%

10/28/19

5,455

-

11,610


-

First mortgage relating to multiple
  properties:

Five properties in the United Kingdom

Seniors housing triple-net

7.50%

11/30/19

83,130

-

16,356

13,050

-

Second mortgages relating to 1
  property located in:

Connecticut

Seniors housing triple-net

8.11%

04/01/18

36,406

15,583

5,300

5,258

-

Texas

Seniors housing triple-net

12.17%

05/01/19

32,042

5,293

3,100

3,100

-

Florida

Seniors housing triple-net

12.17%

07/01/18

27,908

9,283

2,700

2,700

-

Florida

Seniors housing triple-net

12.17%

11/01/18

27,908

7,861

2,700

2,700

-

Colorado

Seniors housing triple-net

9.00%

05/01/16

15,500

7,972

2,000

2,000

-

Indiana

Seniors housing triple-net

9.00%

05/01/16

11,625

7,864

1,500

1,500

-

Canada

Seniors housing triple-net

7.24%

12/31/16

-

12,413



-

Second mortgage relating to multiple
  properties:

Eleven properties in four states

Seniors housing triple-net

10.00%

12/30/18

$

212,329

29,677

25,000

25,000

-

Totals

$

95,946

$

260,574

$

188,651

$

-

Year
  Ended December 31,




Reconciliation of mortgage loans:

(in
  thousands)

Balance at beginning of year

$

146,987

$

87,955

$

63,934

Additions:

New mortgage loans

113,997

68,530

40,641

Draws on existing loans

26,330

-

-

Total additions

140,326

68,530

40,641

Deductions:

Collections of principal

(49,973)

(8,790)

(11,819)

Conversions to real property

(45,836)

-

(3,300)

Charge-offs

-

(2,110)

(1,501)

Total deductions

(95,810)

(10,900)

(16,620)

Change in balance due to foreign currency translation

(2,852)

1,402

-

Balance at end of year

$

188,651

$

146,987

$

87,955


EXHIBIT INDEX

1.1(a)     Form
of Equity Distribution Agreement, dated as of November 12, 2010, entered into
by and between the Company and each of UBS Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc.,
KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Credit Agricole Securities (USA) Inc. (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 1.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 15,
2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

1.1(b)     Form
of Amendment No. 1, dated September 1, 2011, to the Equity Distribution
Agreements entered into by and between the Company and each of UBS Securities
LLC, RBS Securities Inc., KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Credit Agricole
Securities (USA) Inc. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 1.1 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed September 8, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

2.1          Agreement
and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 21, 2012, by and among Sunrise Senior
Living, Inc., Brewer Holdco, Inc., Brewer Holdco Sub, Inc., the Company and Red
Fox, Inc. (the exhibits and schedules to the Agreement and Plan of Merger have
been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K) (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed August 22, 2012 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(a)     Second
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 20, 2000 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(b)     Certificate
of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed
March 20, 2000 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

3.1(c)      Certificate
of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed June
13, 2003 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(d)     Certificate
of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.9 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
August 9, 2007 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

3.1(e)      Certificate
of Change of Location of Registered Office and of Registered Agent of the Company
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed
August 6, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

3.1(f)      Certificate
of Designation of 6.50% Series I Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred
Stock of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s
Form 8-K filed March 7, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

3.1(g)
     Certificate of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation
of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form
8-K filed May 10, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

3.1(h)     Certificate
of Designation of 6.50% Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock of the
Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K
filed March 8, 2012 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

3.1(i)       Certificate
of Amendment of Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed May
6, 2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

3.1(j)      Certificate
of Elimination of Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Series A, of the
Company.

3.1(k)     Certificate
of Elimination of 6% Series H Cumulative Convertible and Redeemable Preferred
Stock of the Company.


3.2          Fourth Amended and Restated
By-Laws of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s
Form 8-K filed November 1, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein
by reference thereto).

4.1(a)     Indenture
for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company
and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s
Form 8-K filed September 9, 2002 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein
by reference thereto).

4.1(b)     Supplemental
Indenture No. 1, dated as of September 6, 2002, to Indenture for Senior Debt
Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third
Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
September 9, 2002 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

4.1(c)      Amendment
No. 1, dated March 12, 2003, to Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of
September 6, 2002, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of
September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 14, 2003 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(d)     Supplemental
Indenture No. 2, dated as of September 10, 2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt
Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third
Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
September 24, 2003 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

4.1(e)      Amendment
No. 1, dated September 16, 2003, to Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of
September 10, 2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of
September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third Bank (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 4.4 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 24, 2003
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(f)      Supplemental
Indenture No. 3, dated as of October 29, 2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt
Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and Fifth Third
Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
October 30, 2003 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

4.1(g)      Amendment
No. 1, dated September 13, 2004, to Supplemental Indenture No. 3, dated as of
October 29, 2003, to Indenture for Senior Debt Securities, dated as of
September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company,
N.A., as successor to Fifth Third Bank (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 13, 2004 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.1(h)     Supplemental
Indenture No. 4, dated as of April 27, 2005, to Indenture for Senior Debt
Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed April 28, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).

4.1(i)       Supplemental
Indenture No. 5, dated as of November 30, 2005, to Indenture for Senior Debt
Securities, dated as of September 6, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed November 30, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(a)
    Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.1
to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(b)     Supplemental
Indenture No. 1, dated as of March 15, 2010, between the Company and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 15, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(c)      Amendment
No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated as of June 18,
2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K
filed June 18, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).


4.2(d)     Supplemental Indenture No. 2,
dated as of April 7, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s
Form 8-K filed April 7, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

4.2(e)      Amendment
No. 1 to Supplemental Indenture No. 2, dated as of June 8, 2010,
between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
June 8, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).

4.2(f)      Supplemental
Indenture No. 3, dated as of September 10, 2010, between the Company
and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed September 13,
2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(g)      Supplemental
Indenture No. 4, dated as of November 16, 2010, between the Company and The
Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 16, 2010 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(h)     Supplemental
Indenture No. 5, dated as of March 14, 2011, between the Company and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed March 14, 2011 (File
No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(i)       Supplemental
Indenture No. 6, dated as of April 3, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 4.2
to the Company’s Form 8-K filed April 4, 2012 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(j)      Supplemental
Indenture No. 7, dated as of December 6, 2012, between the Company and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed December 11, 2012 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(k)     Supplemental
Indenture No. 8, dated as of October 7, 2013, between the Company and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed October 9, 2013 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(l)       Supplemental
Indenture No. 9, dated as of November 20, 2013, between the Company and The
Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 20, 2013 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.2(m)    Supplemental
Indenture No. 10, dated as of November 25, 2014, between the Company and The
Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed November 25, 2014 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.3          Form
of Indenture for Senior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 4.9 to the Company’s Form S-3 (File No. 333-73936) filed November
21, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

4.4          Form
of Indenture for Junior Subordinated Debt Securities (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 4.10 to the Company’s Form S-3 (File No. 333-73936) filed November
21, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference thereto).

10.1        Credit
Agreement dated as of July 25, 2014 by and among the Company; the lenders
listed therein; KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent, L/C
issuer and a swingline lender; Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A., as co-syndication agents; Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as documentation
agent; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan
Securities LLC, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.,
as U.S. joint lead arrangers; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and RBC Capital Markets, as Canadian
joint lead arrangers; and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as joint book runners (filed with
the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed July 31, 2014
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).


10.2        Equity Purchase Agreement,
dated as of February 28, 2011, by and among the Company, FC-GEN
Investment, LLC and FC-GEN Operations Investment, LLC (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed
February 28, 2011 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).

10.3(a)   Amended
and Restated Health Care REIT, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with
the Commission as Appendix A to the Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2009
Annual Meeting of Stockholders, filed March 25, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(b)   Form
of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for the Chief
Executive Officer under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.18 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(c)   Form
of Amendment to Stock Option Agreements (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for
the Chief Executive Officer under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with
the Commission as Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(d)   Form
of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for the Chief
Executive Officer under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(e)   Form
of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive
Officers under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.19 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(f)    Form
of Amendment to Stock Option Agreements (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for
Executive Officers under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(g)   Form
of Stock Option Agreement (with Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive
Officers under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(h)   Form
of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for the Chief
Executive Officer under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the
Commission as Exhibit 10.20 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006
(File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(i)    Form
of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for the Chief
Executive Officer under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May
10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(j)    Form
of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive
Officers under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as
Exhibit 10.21 to the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(k)   Form
of Stock Option Agreement (without Dividend Equivalent Rights) for Executive
Officers under the Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed
with the Commission as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10,
2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(l)    Form
of Restricted Stock Agreement for the Chief Executive Officer under the 2005
Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.22 to the
Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(m)  Form
of Restricted Stock Agreement for Executive Officers under the 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.23 to the Company’s
Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*


10.3(n)   Form of Restricted Stock
Agreement for the Chief Executive Officer under the Amended and Restated 2005
Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the
Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(o)   Form
of Restricted Stock Agreement for Executive Officers under the Amended and
Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.4 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(p)   Form
of Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.24 to
the Company’s Form 10-K filed March 10, 2006 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(q)   Form
of Amendment to Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreements for Non-Employee Directors
under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.10 to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(r)    Form
of Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.11 to
the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.3(s)    Form
of Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement for Non-Employee Directors under the
Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (filed with the Commission
as Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 10, 2010 (File No.
001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.4(a)   Sixth
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated July 16, 2013, by and between
the Company and George L. Chapman (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to
the Company’s Form 8-K filed July 17, 2013 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.4(b)   Retirement
and Consulting Agreement, dated April 13, 2014, between the Company and George
L. Chapman (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form
10-Q filed May 8, 2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*

10.5(a)   Amended
and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 28, 2014, between the Company
and Thomas J. DeRosa.*

10.5(b)   Performance-Based
Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement, dated effective as of July 30, 2014,
between the Company and Thomas J. DeRosa (filed with the Commission as Exhibit
10.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed November 4, 2014 (File No. 001-08923),
and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.6        Second
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 29, 2008, between the
Company and Scott A. Estes (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.4 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.7        Second
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 29, 2008, between the
Company and Charles J. Herman, Jr. (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3
to the Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.8        Amended
and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 29, 2008, between the Company
and Jeffrey H. Miller (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s
Form 10-K filed March 2, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by
reference thereto).*

10.9

Employment Agreement, dated March 11, 2013, by and between
the Company and Scott M. Brinker (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to
the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May 7, 2013 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*


10.10      Third Amended and Restated
Employment Agreement, dated December 29, 2008, between the Company and Erin C.
Ibele (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.11 to the Company’s Form 10-K
filed March 2, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference
thereto).*

10.11      Amended
and Restated Health Care REIT, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
dated December 29, 2008 (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.12 to the
Company’s Form 8-K filed January 5, 2009 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated
herein by reference thereto).*

10.12      Form
of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each director, executive
officer and officer of the Company (filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.1
to the Company’s Form 8-K filed February 18, 2005 (File No. 001-08923), and
incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

10.13      Summary
of Director Compensation.*

10.14      Health
Care REIT, Inc. 2013-2015 Long-Term Incentive Program, as Amended and Restated
(filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form 10-Q filed May
8, 2014 (File No. 001-08923), and incorporated herein by reference thereto).*

12           Statement
Regarding Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Ratio of
Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends (Unaudited).

21           Subsidiaries of the Company.

23           Consent of Ernst & Young LLP,
independent registered public accounting firm.

24           Powers of Attorney.

31.1        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification
of Chief Executive Officer.

31.2        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification
of Chief Financial Officer.

32.1        Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350 by Chief Executive Officer.

32.2        Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350 by Chief Financial Officer.

101.INS     XBRL Instance
Document**

101.SCH   XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Schema Document**

101.CAL   XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Calculation Linkbase Document**

101.LAB   XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Label Linkbase Document**

101.PRE    XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Presentation Linkbase Document**

101.DEF    XBRL Taxonomy
Extension Definition Linkbase Document**

*

Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.

**

Attached as Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form
  10-K are the following materials, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business
  Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31,
  2014 and 2013, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
  for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, (iii) the
  Consolidated Statements of Equity for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013
  and 2012, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years
  ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, (v) the Notes to Consolidated
  Financial Statements, (vi) Schedule III – Real Estate and Accumulated
  Depreciation and (vii) Schedule IV – Mortgage Loans on Real Estate.

127