
10-K
HEALTH CARE REIT, INC. 10-K




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                            -----------------------
                                   FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                           -----------------------

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994        Commission File No. 1-8923

                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


             Delaware                                       34-1096634
(State or other jurisdiction of                          (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                      Identification Number)

 One SeaGate, Suite 1950, Toledo, Ohio                      43604
(Address of principal executive office)                  (Zip Code)

                                 (419) 247-2800
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                              Name of Each Exchange
         Title of Each Class                   on Which Registered  
         ----------------------               -----------------------
         Shares of Common Stock               New York Stock Exchange
         $1.00 par value

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months; and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
                                           Yes    X                 No  
                                                -----                 -----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment of
this Form 10-K.
                    /  / 
The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant on February 1, 1995 was $244,214,415 based on the reported
closing sales price of such shares on the New York Stock Exchange for that
date.  As of February 1, 1995, there were 11,595,115 shares outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement, which will be filed
with the Commission prior to April 30, 1995, are incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K.

This document contains 69 pages.





                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
                          1994 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT


                               

                                     PART I


                                                                           PAGE
Item  1.         Business...............................................    3
Item  2.         Properties.............................................   14
Item  3.         Legal Proceedings......................................   14
Item  4.         Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders....   14

                                   PART II

Item  5.         Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and
                   Related Security Holder Matters......................   15
Item  6.         Selected Financial Data................................   16
Item  7.         Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial         
                   Condition and Results of Operations..................   17
Item  8.         Financial Statements and Supplementary Data............   22
Item  9.         Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on          
                   Accounting and Financial Disclosure..................   40

                                   PART III

Item 10.         Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.....   40
Item 11.         Executive Compensation.................................   40
Item 12.         Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners           
                   and Management.......................................   40
Item 13.         Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.........   40

                                   PART IV

Item 14.         Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and
                   Reports on Form 8-K..................................   41




                                      -2-

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL
- -------
         Health Care REIT, Inc. (the "Company"), founded in 1970, is a real
estate investment trust which invests in health care facilities, primarily
nursing homes.  The Company also invests in assisted living and retirement
facilities, behavioral care facilities, speciality care hospitals and primary
care facilities.  The Company's investment portfolio is diversified by type of
facility, number of facilities, operators, location and state.  At December 31,
1994, the largest aggregate financing to any operator totalled $25,087,000 or
7.7% of real estate  related investments.  This operator, Olympus Healthcare
Group, Inc., is an unrelated party.


INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO
- --------------------
         The following table reflects the diversification of the Company's
investments at December 31, 1994:









                                      -3-

[FN]
(3)      Investments do not include $49,234,000 in commitments for financings
         for which the specific site has not yet been approved by the Company.

(4)      Due to a number of factors, it is possible that some portion of the
         commitments for financings will not result in permanent financing.

         NURSING HOMES.  These facilities offer a combination of skilled and
intermediate care services.  Nursing homes provide long-term care and, more
recently, supplement hospital care by providing subacute services.  The Company
believes that a substantial portion of the payments received by operators of
nursing homes financed by the Company is in the form of Medicaid reimbursement.
Remaining payments come from private pay, Medicare, veterans' programs, private
insurance and other sources.

         ASSISTED LIVING AND RETIREMENT FACILITIES.  Assisted living facilities
offer residential units for the frail elderly who need assistance with certain
activities of daily living, while retirement facilities offer residential units
for  active and ambulatory older individuals who need little or no care.
Residents may participate in structured group activities.  Meals are provided
(although apartments in most retirement facilities have their own kitchen
areas) and limited health care services are available.  Rent and services are
typically paid by the resident.

         BEHAVIORAL CARE FACILITIES.  These facilities offer comprehensive
in-patient and out-patient psychiatric treatment programs.  Programs are
tailored to the individual and include individual, group and family therapy.
Most programs are paid for by insurance programs.

         SPECIALTY CARE HOSPITALS.  These facilities provide acute in-patient
care to patients suffering from a specific illness or disease.  Growth in
demand for these services is due to the need to attain greater cost efficiency.
Services are paid for by government programs (i.e., Medicare, Medicaid or
veterans' programs) as well as private insurance (including "managed care"
insurance providers).

         PRIMARY CARE FACILITIES.  These facilities are designed to offer
primary care to individuals in a doctor-office setting.  These primary care
facilities also offer a number of specialties in one building such as
obstetrics, gynecology, opthamology, and pediatrics.  These services are
provided under a group-practice setting and are usually offered in a "managed
care" context.  Payment for services is principally through prepaid contracts.

INVESTMENTS

         In determining whether to finance a facility, the Company places
primary emphasis on the experience of the operator, the financial strength of
the borrower or lessee, the amount of security available to support the
financing and the amount of capital that is being committed to the project by
the borrower or





                                      -4-

lessee.  In addition, the Company considers a variety of other factors,
including the site's suitability, appraisal reports of the facility and the
existence of certificate of need procedures or other barriers that limit the
entry of competing facilities into the community.

         The Company monitors its investments through a variety of methods
depending on the operator and type of facility.  These procedures include the
receipt and review of facility and guarantor financial statements, periodic
site visits, property reviews and conferences with the operators.  Such reviews
of operators and facilities generally encompass licensure and regulatory
compliance materials and reports, contemplated building improvements and other
material developments.

         Most of the Company's loans and leases are designed with escalating
rate structures that may result in principal payment or purchase prior to
maturity.  However, the Company's policy is to structure longer term financing
to maximize returns.  The Company believes that appropriate new investments
will be available in the future with substantially the same spreads over its
costs of borrowing regardless of interest rate fluctuations.

         Investments are typically structured using mortgage loans or operating
leases which are normally secured by guarantees and/or letters of credit.  The
Company typically finances up to 90% of the appraised value of the property.
Since 1986, the Company's mortgage loan portfolio has substantially grown while
its direct financing lease portfolio has declined significantly.  Since 1988,
the Company's operating lease portfolio has also grown.  These trends reflect
the increasing influence of the larger operators in the marketplace and their
preference for the economic attributes of mortgages or operating leases.  In
addition, the Company provides construction financing and in the past provided
credit enhancements to facilitate bond financings.

         The Company has obtained warrants from three operators to purchase
their common stock.  If the market value of such common stock sufficiently
increases, the warrants may have the effect of increasing the Company's return
on its investments.

         MORTGAGE LOANS.  At December 31, 1994, the Company had 52 mortgage
loans totalling $230,782,000, more than 95% of which are secured by first
mortgages.  Generally, the Company's mortgage loans have terms of five to ten
years with a renewal term, and have a 1% commitment fee, interest payment rates
of 350 to 550 basis points over the relevant Treasury Note rate set at the
beginning of the mortgage loan, and a 2% to 3% annual increase over the initial
interest payment rate.  Most mortgage loans closed since 1991 require principal
reduction, a feature not required for most mortgage loans made in previous
years.  The interest rate on mortgage loans closed through 1991 generally
provided for an initial interest payment rate set at 400 to 450 basis points
over the five or seven-year Treasury Note rate set at the beginning of the
mortgage loan plus an additional 100 to 300 basis points of interest which is
added to principal resulting in a repayment of





                                      -5-

principal at maturity greater than the original amount.  While the Company's
mortgage loans are structured to provide substantially the same basic economic
benefit as direct financing leases and operating leases over the life of the
loan, the timing on recognition of income is different among the three types of
investments.

         At December 31, 1994, interest rates on the Company's mortgage loans
ranged from 8.75% to 16.97% and earned an average of approximately 11.39%
(excluding prepayment fees) during 1994.  The Company's mortgage loans
generally impose a substantial fee upon prepayment equal to 9% of the principal
balance of the mortgage loan in the earliest years of the loan with the amount
of the prepayment fee declining through the last year of the mortgage loan when
the prepayment fee expires.  Furthermore, since 1994, the Company has included
an initial period during which no prepayments are permitted.

         At December 31, 1994, the Company had 12 mortgage loans totalling
$44,843,000 which generally provide for both an initial floating rate term with
an interest payment rate of at least 300 basis points over the base rate of a
specified financial institution and a fixed rate term loan with an initial
interest payment rate of at least 500 basis points over the comparative
Treasury Note rate for the initial period and a significantly higher interest
spread on the reset for the remainder of the term.  These mortgage loans
generally have a 1% commitment fee and, during the term loan period, a 2% to 3%
annual increase over the term loan interest payment rate.

         OPERATING LEASES.  The Company actively markets operating leases.
Such leases are priced on a variety of methods which are designed to generate
higher annual rents, either through the use of specified increases or
increasers based on some performance measure of the facility, and with options
to purchase at a price based upon the then fair market value of the facility.
At December 31, 1994, there were nine such leases totalling an investment of
$44,557,000.  All leases require the lessee to pay taxes, insurance and
maintenance.

         The Company has also utilized operating leases in connection with
managing and operating properties that have been relinquished to the Company by
their previous owners, due to various loan and bond defaults.  At December 31,
1994, there were two such leases with a total investment of $12,675,000.

         DIRECT FINANCING LEASES.  At December 31, 1994, the Company had 6
direct financing leases outstanding with a total investment of $11,428,000.
Generally, the Company's direct financing leases provide for a lease term of 20
years, a 1% commitment fee, rents of 400 to 425 basis points over the five-year
Treasury Note rate set at the beginning of the lease, and a 2% to 3% annual
increase over the initial payment.  All leases require the lessee to pay taxes,
insurance and maintenance.  Substantially all lease agreements have been
written with option prices that increase 2% to 3% per year from a base equal to
100% of the original investment.  All option





                                      -6-

prices equal or exceed the Company's original investment in the property.

         For an explanation of the Company's accounting policy with respect to
direct financing leases, see Note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements.

         CONSTRUCTION, SHORT-TERM AND WORKING CAPITAL LOANS.  At December 31,
1994, the Company had six construction loans outstanding totalling $17,074,000.
Construction loans are made only to borrowers to whom the Company has made a
commitment for permanent financing.  Generally, construction loans have a 1%
commitment fee and provide for interest at a variable rate equal to at least
250 basis points over the prime interest rate.  Construction loans made by the
Company will normally have a term of not more than two years and are secured by
a mortgage on the facility under construction and by guarantees or letters of
credit.

         The Company has also entered into other financing arrangements that
involve making short-term and working capital loans.  These loans generally had
a 1% commitment fee and provided for interest at a variable rate equal to at
least 200 basis points over the prime interest rate.  The Company has not made
any new working capital loans of this type for several years and will make any
future working capital loans only on a very selective basis.  Security for such
loans has consisted of second mortgage liens and, in some cases, security
interests in limited partnership interests.

         At December 31, 1994, the Company had outstanding construction,
short-term and working capital loans totalling $24,142,000 and unfunded
commitments to provide an additional $33,324,000.

         CREDIT ENHANCEMENTS.  In 1984 and 1985, the Company provided credit
enhancements to four related parties which facilitated lower cost industrial
development revenue bond financing.  These credit enhancements took the form of
agreements to purchase health care facilities or the loans in respect thereof
in the event the owners default upon their obligations.  In consideration for
such credit enhancements, the Company receives annual fees of 1.5% of the
original bond amounts.  The Company does not anticipate offering credit
enhancements in the future.  As of December 31, 1994, the Company had credit
enhancements relating to industrial development revenue bonds totalling
$20,175,000.


ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES
- --------------------
         The Company maintains an allowance for possible losses which is
reevaluated quarterly to determine its adequacy.  See Note 1 of Notes to
Financial Statements.  At December 31, 1994, $2,450,000 of the total allowance
of $5,150,000 was allocated to three specific properties.  One of the three
properties, a New Mexico retirement facility, is owned by a partnership in
which an affiliate holds a partnership interest.  The Company believes this
allowance to be adequate.





                                      -7-


CERTAIN GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS
- ------------------------------
         The Company invests in single purpose health care facilities.  The
Company's customers must comply with the licensing requirements of federal,
state and local health agencies, and with the requirements of municipal
building codes, health codes and local fire departments.  In granting and
renewing a facility's license, the state health agency considers, among other
things, the physical buildings and equipment, the qualifications of the
administrative personnel and clinical staffs, the quality of health care
programs and compliance with applicable laws.

         Many of the facilities operated by the Company's customers receive a
substantial portion of their revenues from the federal Medicare program and
state Medicaid programs; therefore, the Company's revenues may be indirectly
affected by changes in these programs.  The amounts of program payments can be
changed by legislative or regulatory actions and by determinations by agents
for the programs.  Since Medicaid programs are funded by both the states and
the federal government, the amount of payments can be affected by changes at
either the state or federal level.  There is no assurance that payments under
these programs will remain at levels comparable to present levels or be
sufficient to cover costs allocable to these patients.

         Under Medicare and Medicaid programs, acute care hospitals are
generally paid a fixed amount per discharge (based on the patient's diagnosis)
for inpatient services.  Behavioral and rehabilitation hospitals are generally
paid on a cost basis, subject to certain limitations on allowable costs;
however, proposals have been made to change the system to a diagnosis-based
fixed payment per discharge.

         Medicare and Medicaid programs have traditionally reimbursed nursing
facilities for the reasonable direct and indirect allowable costs incurred in
providing routine services (as defined by the programs), subject to certain
cost ceilings.  However, many states have converted to a system based on
prospectively determined fixed rates, which may be based in part on historical
costs.  The Medicare program has been working to develop a
fixed-payment-per-discharge system for nursing facilities similar to that used
for acute care hospitals.

         Medicare and Medicaid regulations could adversely affect the resale
value of the Company's health care facilities.  Medicare regulations provide
that when a facility changes ownership (by sale or under certain lease
transactions), reimbursement for depreciation and interest will be based on the
lesser of the cost to the new owner or the historical cost of the original
owner.  Medicaid regulations allow a limited increase in the valuation of the
facility during the time the seller owned the facility.  Other Medicare and
Medicaid regulations provide that upon resale, facilities are responsible to
pay back prior depreciation reimbursement payments that are "recaptured" as a
result of the sale.





                                      -8-

         Health care facilities that participate in Medicare or Medicaid must
meet extensive program requirements, including physical plant and operational
requirements, which are revised from time to time.  (Such requirements may
include a duty to admit Medicare and Medicaid patients, limiting the ability of
the facility to increase its private pay census.)  Medicare and Medicaid
facilities are regularly inspected to determine compliance, and may be excluded
from the programs--in some cases without a prior hearing--for failure to meet
program requirements.

         Under the Medicare program, "peer review organizations" have been
established to review the quality and appropriateness of care rendered by
health care providers.  These organizations may not only deny claims that fail
to meet their criteria, but can also fine and/or recommend termination of
participation in the program.

         Recent changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs will likely
result in increased use of "managed care" networks to meet the needs of program
beneficiaries.  These networks selectively contract with health care
facilities, resulting in some facilities being excluded from the ability to
serve program beneficiaries.

         Health care facilities also receive a substantial portion of their
revenues from private insurance carriers, health maintenance organizations,
preferred provider organizations, self-insured employees and other health
benefit payment arrangements.  Such payment sources increasingly pay facilities
under contractual arrangements that include a limited panel of providers and/or
discounted or other special payment arrangements, including arrangements that
shift the risk of high utilization to the providers.  A number of states have
established rate-setting agencies which control inpatient health care facility
rates, including private pay rates.

         A number of states have established rate-setting agencies which
control inpatient health care facility rates, including private pay rates.

         Congress is considering several proposals that would substantially
alter health care delivery and payment systems, both public and private.  These
reform proposals involve increased reliance on managed care plans that
selectively contract with providers, increased incentives for individuals to be
cost-conscious, limitations on tax deductions for employee health benefits,
provider or insurer price controls, emphasis on outpatient and home-based
alternatives to inpatient care, and/or substantial reductions in payments to
Medicare and Medicaid facilities.  In addition, proposals to reduce taxes for
the middle class and/or the proposed constitutional amendment to require a
balanced federal budget could result in Medicare and Medicaid spending
reductions.  It is impossible to predict with certainty what form federal
health care legislation may ultimately take.  However, it is likely that some
steps will be taken to reduce the rate of growth in both the utilization and
the cost of health care facility services.





                                      -9-

         In order to meet a federal requirement, most states required providers
to obtain certificates of need prior to construction of inpatient facilities
and certain outpatient facilities.  However, in 1987, the federal requirement
was repealed, and some states have repealed these requirements, resulting in
increased competition.

         Nursing facilities compete with other subacute care providers,
including rehabilitation centers and hospitals.  Many of these providers have
underutilized facilities and are converting some or all of their facilities
into nursing facilities.  Some of these entities operate on a tax-exempt basis,
which gives them a capital cost advantage. Furthermore, some states have
granted rest homes the ability to provide limited nursing care services.

         Certain states have adopted pre-admission screening and other programs
to promote utilization of outpatient and home-based services as an alternative
to inpatient facility services.   Recent changes in Medicaid regulations allow
states to use Medicaid funding for home and community-based alternatives to
inpatient care.

TAXATION

                 General
                 -------
         A corporation, trust or association meeting certain requirements may
elect to be treated as a "real estate investment trust." Beginning with its
first fiscal year, which commenced on May 1, 1971, and in all subsequent years,
the Company has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust under
Sections 856 to 860, inclusive, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code").  The Company intends to operate in such manner as to
continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax
purposes.  No assurance can be given that the actual results of the Company's
operations for any one taxable year will satisfy such requirements.

         To qualify as a real estate investment trust, the Company must satisfy
a variety of complex requirements each year, including organizational and stock
ownership tests and percentage tests relating to the sources of its gross
income, the nature of its assets and the distribution of its income.

         Generally, for each taxable year during which the Company qualifies
as a real estate investment trust, it will not be taxed on the portion of its
taxable income (including capital gains) that is distributed to stockholders.
Any undistributed income or gains will be taxed to the Company at regular
corporate tax rates.  The Company will be subject to tax at the highest
corporate rate on its net income from foreclosure property, regardless of the
amount of its distributions.  The highest corporate tax rate is currently 35%.
Subject to certain limitations, the Company will also be subject to an
additional tax equal to 100% of the net income, if any, derived from prohibited
transactions.  A prohibited transaction is defined as a sale or disposition of
inventory-type





                                      -10-

property or property held by the Company primarily for sale to customers in the
ordinary course of its trade or business, which is not property acquired on
foreclosure.

         The Company is subject to a nondeductible federal excise tax equal to
4% of the amount, if any, by which 85% of its ordinary  income plus 95% of its
capital gain net income (plus distribution deficiencies from prior years)
exceeds distributions actually paid or treated as paid to stockholders during
the taxable year, plus current year income upon which the Company pays tax and
any overdistribution from prior years.  Due to the growth of the Company's
income, primarily as a result of large capital gains from the exercise of
purchase options under leases, the Company did not satisfy this requirement in
1993 and 1994 and incurred an excise tax of approximately $132,000 and
$575,000, respectively, in those years.  There is a cumulative
underdistribution of $18,029,000 that will carry over to 1995 and later years
until reduced by distributions in a subsequent year that exceed the percentage
of that year's income that is required to be distributed currently.

                 Failure To Qualify
                 ------------------
         While the Company intends to operate so as to qualify as a real estate
investment trust under the Code, if in any taxable year the Company fails to
qualify, and certain relief provisions do not apply, its taxable income would
be subject to tax (including alternative minimum tax) at corporate rates.  If
that occurred, the Company might have to dispose of a significant amount of its
assets or incur a significant amount of debt in order to pay the resulting
federal income tax.  Further distributions to its stockholders would not be
deductible by the Company nor would they be required to be made.

         Distributions out of the Company's current or accumulated earnings and
profits would be taxable to stockholders as dividends and would be eligible for
the dividends received deduction for corporations.  No portion of any
distributions would be eligible for designation as a capital gain dividend.

         Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, the
Company also will be disqualified from taxation as a real estate investment
trust for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification
was lost.


                 Summary
                 -------
         The foregoing is only a summary of some of the significant federal
income tax considerations affecting the Company and is qualified in its
entirety by reference to the applicable provisions of the Code, the rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder, and the administrative and judicial
interpretations thereof.  Stockholders of the Company are urged to consult
their own tax advisors as to the effects of these rules and regulations on
them. In particular, foreign stockholders should consult with their tax
advisors concerning the tax consequences of ownership of shares in





                                      -11-

the Company, including the possibility that distributions with respect to the
shares will be subject to federal income tax withholding.


HCRI Pennsylvania Properties, Inc.
- ---------------------------------
         On November 1, 1993, the Company formed a wholly-owned subsidiary,
HCRI Pennsylvania Properties, Inc.  This subsidiary was created to own real
estate in the State of Pennsylvania.

THE MANAGER
- -----------
         First Toledo Corporation (the "Predecessor Manager") was organized in
April 1970 under the laws of the State of Ohio for the purpose of administering
and managing the daily affairs of the Company and advising the Company with
respect to investments.  Effective June 1, 1994, First Toledo Corporation spun
off, on a tax-free basis, the management agreement (defined below) and certain
other assets to First Toledo Advisory Company.  Therefore, beginning June 1,
1994, First Toledo Advisory Company became the Manager.  The Company has seven
employees, all of whom are also employees of the Manager.  Messrs. Wolfe and
Thompson are Directors of the Manager and each owns 50% of the outstanding
common stock of the Manager.  In addition, Robert J. Pruger, Chief Financial
Officer of the Company, is also a Director and Treasurer of the Manager.  Erin
C. Ibele, Vice President and Corporate Secretary of the Company, is also a
Director, Vice President and Corporate Secretary of the Manager.  George L.
Chapman, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, is also
Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Manager.  The ownership
percentages, titles and duties of each individual noted above are the same for
the Manager and the Predecessor Manager.





                                      -12-

         Pursuant to the Management Agreement (the "Agreement"), the Manager
assists the Company in establishing investment policies and in selecting and
negotiating the terms of the Company's investments.  The Manager also
administers the day-to-day affairs of the Company.  The Agreement is renewed
annually upon the approval of a majority of the Directors, and is ratified
annually by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of common
stock.  The Agreement, or any extension thereof, may be terminated at any time
without penalty upon sixty days written notice by the Company by action of a
majority of the Directors of the Company or by the Manager.  Both the By-Laws
of the Company and the Agreement require the Company to change its name to one
which does not include the words "Health Care REIT" or "Health Care Fund" in
the event First Toledo Advisory Company ceases to act as Manager.  However,
pursuant to the agreement in principal (discussed below), the Company will
obtain the rights to its names.

         The Agreement provides that the Manager is to be compensated for its
services at the monthly rate of one-tenth of one percent of the average
invested assets of the Company less long- and short-term debt obligations
(excluding accrued expense and other liabilities).  Average invested assets are
defined as the average of the aggregate book value of the assets of the Company
invested in equity interests in and loans secured by real estate before
allowances for doubtful amounts or allowances to reduce certain leases to
option prices or other similar non-cash allowances, computed by taking the
average of such value at the end of each month.  The Manager is also entitled
to receive an incentive fee equal to 10% of the amount of net profits which
exceed 10% of the average net worth of the Company as defined in the Agreement.

         For the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, management fees
amounted to $3,087,000, $2,427,000, and $1,969,000, respectively.  Of such
amounts, $807,000, $771,000, and $550,000, respectively, related to the profit
based incentive fee.  The fees for each year do not include $22,500, $22,500
and $19,500 for 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, that were paid directly by
the Company to certain employees for certain services.

         The Manager pays all charges, including salaries, wages, payroll
taxes, costs of employee benefit plans and charges for incidental help,
attributable to its own operations in connection with providing services under
the Agreement.  The Manager also pays its own accounting fees and related
expenses, legal fees, insurance, rent, telephone, utilities and travel expenses
of its officers and employees.

         Under the Agreement, the Company is required to indemnify the Manager
and its officers, directors and employees from any liabilities arising out of
the performance of the Manager's duties under the Agreement unless such
liabilities resulted from the bad faith, willful malfeasance, gross negligence
or reckless disregard of its duties.





                                      -13-

     On February 6, 1995, the Company's Board of Directors approved in
principle the acquisition of the Manager.  Under the agreement in principle,
the Company would issue 215,514 shares of common stock as consideration for the
acquisition of the Manager, subject to adjustment under certain circumstances.
In connection with the closing of the acquisition, Messrs. Thompson and Wolfe
would enter into five-year service agreements and would each purchase 84,191
shares of common stock at a price of $21.38 per share with funds loaned by the
Company.  Under the stock purchase and loan arrangements, 20% of each loan
could be forgiven each year if continued service and stock price performance
tests are met.  This agreement is subject to, among other things, stockholder
approval and is anticipated to close in the second quarter of 1995.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     The Company's headquarters are currently located at One SeaGate, Suite
1950, Toledo, Ohio 43604.  Office space, equipment and services are furnished
by the Manager.

     At December 31, 1994, the Company owned and leased to qualified
professional operators 11 nursing homes, seven assisted living facilities, and
three primary care facilities.  These facilities are located in Arizona,
Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri, North Carolina,
Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Virginia and West Virginia.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     None.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     None.





                                      -14-

                                    PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high
and low prices of the Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange, as
reported on the Composite Tapes, and dividends paid per share.  There were
4,865 stockholders of record as of December 31, 1994.






                                      -15-

        ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA








                                      -16-

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
        CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
- -------------------------------
         Loan interest payments, lease payments and loan and commitment fees
are the Company's primary sources of cash from operating activities.  Net cash
provided from operating activities has been increasing in each of the three
most recent years totalling $31,977,000 in 1994; $23,180,000 in 1993; and
$18,309,000 in 1992.  These increases arose primarily from an increase in the
Company's net income.  However, there are differences between the recognition
of income for financial reporting purposes and cash receipts for both leases
and mortgage loans which cause period-to-period changes in net cash provided
from operating activities.

         The level of the Company's investing activities varies over time due
to a number of factors, including economic conditions in the health care
financing market, the availability of capital resources, and the timing of
principal payments.  Investing activities in loans receivable and leases, and
net of principal collected on loans for the years 1994, 1993 and 1992 were
$84,797,000, $67,720,000 and $36,441,000, respectively.  Investing activity in
1994 and 1993 was higher than 1992 due to significantly increased marketing
activity.

         The Company's investing activities are financed principally by
borrowings, proceeds from the exercise of lease purchase options, loan
repayments, and equity issuances, including issuances pursuant to the Company's
dividend reinvestment plan and the Company's employee incentive stock option
plan.  On April 8, 1993, the Company issued $52,000,000 of Senior Notes (the
"Senior Notes") to a group of institutional investors, the Company's first such
debt offering.  These Senior Notes were issued in three tranches with an
initial effective interest rate of 7.63% and an average maturity of
approximately seven years.

         In September 1994, the Company entered into an amended and restated
credit agreement for $150,000,000 with ten banks which agreement matures March
31, 1997.  The agreement specifies that borrowings under the revolving credit
are subject to interest rates, at the Company's option, based on either the
agent bank's prime rate of interest or 1 1/2% over LIBOR interest rate.  The
Company is primarily utilizing the LIBOR pricing option with a weighted average
LIBOR interest rate of 7.94% at December 31, 1994.  In addition, the Company
pays a commitment fee at an annual rate of 1/2% of the unused line and an
annual agent's fee of $75,000.  At December 31, 1994, the Company had
$53,000,000 outstanding under the revolving credit agreement.

         The revolving credit agreement limited the amount of borrowings
available to 75% of the Company's borrowing base.  The Company's borrowing base
consisted of mortgage loans and leases not in default which, with the consent
of the banks, are assigned to the lenders' collateral pool.  Each borrowing
base property was valued generally at the lower of the Company's cost or the
market value of the underlying property with substantially all such properties
valued at cost.  As of





                                      -17-

December 31, 1994, the borrowing base under the revolving credit agreement
limited the amount of the borrowing to $88,000,000.  The Company's borrowing
availability was limited by the exclusion of certain assets from the borrowing
base such as construction loans.  The Company anticipates that the completion
of facilities under construction and the inclusion of leases and mortgage loans
relating to completed facilities in its borrowing base will enable it to
increase its borrowings to the $150,000,000 maximum availability.  At December
31, 1994, the Company had $135,141,000 of unfunded commitments.

         The revolving credit agreement contains covenants which require the
Company to maintain a ratio of net operating income to interest expense of not
less than 2 to 1 in any quarter; a ratio of total funded debt to sum of net
worth and convertible subordinated indebtedness of not more than 1.3 to 1; and
a tangible net worth of $180,000,000.  The Company was in compliance with those
and all other covenants at December 31, 1994.

         At December 31, 1994, the Company had two unsecured lines of credit
with two banks for a total of $18,500,000.  One line was increased by
$10,000,000 in early January 1995.  Borrowings under these lines are made
pursuant to notes payable, are due on each bank's demand and are subject to
interest at each bank's prime rate of interest.  The Company had $17,900,000
outstanding at December 31, 1994 under these lines of credit.

         Historically, the Company also used tax-exempt indebtedness or
individual mortgage loans to provide the funds to support specific financings.
At December 31, 1994, these individual obligations totalled $5,373,000, of
which $3,620,000 related to industrial development bonds maturing at various
dates to 2004, and $1,753,000 related to mortgage loans maturing at various
dates to 2005.  The industrial development bonds and mortgage loans are
required to be repaid when the related financing is repaid.  This type of
specific long-term financing transaction is not currently available, and the
Company expects the overall level of these obligations to decline.

         The Company uses interest rate swap contracts solely to accomplish the
Company's policy of reducing its interest rate risk, and thereby maintain a
more consistent, predictable interest rate margin.  The Company monitors the
amount of its variable interest rate assets and debt and uses interest rate
swap contracts to partially balance the amount of variable interest rate debt
with its variable interest rate assets.  Interest rate swap contracts permit
the Company to match either by fixing interest rates on a portion of its line
of credit borrowings, or converting a portion of its fixed rate debt to
variable rate.  At December 31, 1994, the Company had two five-year interest
rate swap contracts which expire in 1996 and 1997, which hedge the Company's
interest rate risk relating to $30,000,000 of variable interest rate
borrowings.  Also, at December 31, 1994, the Company had one two-year variable
interest rate swap contract which expires in May, 1995, which hedges the
Company's interest rate risk relating to $40,000,000 of fixed rate senior
notes.  At December 31, 1994, the Company was at risk for declining interest
rates because its variable interest rate assets exceeded its variable interest
rate debt.





                                      -18-

         Proceeds from the exercise of purchase options were approximately
$38,330,000, $12,085,000, and $15,534,000 for the years 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  At December 31, 1994, the Company had a limited number of direct
financing leases and, therefore, anticipates that proceeds from the exercise of
purchase options will be significantly reduced.

         In the last three years, the Company has had one public offering of
Common Stock.  In 1993, the Company issued 2,500,000 shares of Common Stock
which provided net proceeds of $59,085,000 at $23.63 per share.  The proceeds
were initially used to pay down the Company's bank lines of credit.

         The dividend reinvestment plan and, to a lesser extent, the employee
incentive stock option plan together represent a significant source of capital
for the Company.  During 1994, 1993 and 1992, issuance of Common Stock pursuant
to these plans generated $3,222,000, $4,296,000, and $4,400,000, respectively,
in cash for the Company.

         The Company believes that funds provided from operating activities,
together with funds from scheduled loan repayments and equity issuances under
Company stock plans, will be sufficient to meet current operating requirements
and existing commitments.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------
         Gross income increased $6,714,000 and $7,110,000 in 1994 and 1993,
respectively, though it declined $340,000 in 1992.  In 1994, interest income on
loans receivable, operating lease rents, and loan and commitment fees each
increased while direct financing lease income decreased when compared to 1993.
The increases in interest income on loans receivable, operating lease rents,
and loan and commitment fees are attributable to the growth in the loan and
operating lease properties portfolio, a long-term trend which the Company
anticipates will continue.  The decrease in direct financing lease income is a
reflection of another long-term trend which should also continue due to greater
market acceptance of mortgage loans and operating leases.

         In 1993, interest income on loans receivable, operating lease rents,
and loan and commitment fees each increased while direct financing lease income
decreased when compared to 1992.  These changes in components of gross income
reflect the trend of change in the components of the investment portfolio
discussed above.

         Net income, which totalled $24,953,000 in 1994; $20,055,000 in 1993;
and $16,515,000 in 1992 is the result of a number of factors.  The principal
factors are the difference between the Company's average earnings on assets
versus its average cost of borrowings and the Company's debt-to-equity ratio.
The secondary factors are management fees, other operating expenses and the
provision for losses.

         The 1994 increase in net income was due in large part to the growth in
net interest margin.  The Company's average earnings on assets increased
approximately 67 basis points from the same period in 1993, while the Company's
average cost of borrowing increased approxi-





                                      -19-

mately 37 basis points, thereby resulting in a 30 basis point increase in net
interest margin.  The increase in the average earnings on assets was solely due
to gains on exercise of options and prepayment fees.  Without those items,
average earnings on assets would have declined approximately 45 basis points in
1994 versus 1993.  The increase in average cost of borrowing was due to a
general rise in interest rates in 1994 over 1993 as well as an increase in the
LIBOR interest rate spread in the Company's amended and expanded revolving line
of credit agreement.  The Company anticipates that its average earnings on
assets and its average cost of debt will both increase in 1995.

         The Company's 1994 net income was also affected by a decrease in the
average quarter-end, debt-to-equity ratio from 1 to 1 in 1993 to .65 to 1 in
1994.  During 1994, the Company was proportionally using less debt as a source
of funds.  Therefore, the Company proportionally incurred less interest
expense, and therefore, the Company increased its net interest margin and net
income.

         The 1993 increase in net income was due in large part to the growth in
net interest margin.  The Company's average earnings on assets declined 53
basis points from the same period in 1992, while the Company's average cost of
borrowing decreased 130 basis points; thereby, resulting in a 77 basis point
increase in net interest margin.  Both these reductions resulted primarily from
an overall decline in interest rates.  However, the decline in average cost of
borrowing was enhanced by the Company's greater use of its lines of credit, its
lowest cost of debt financing.  The 1993 net interest margin was also affected
by the collection of prepayment fees and the cost recognized to unwind an
interest rate swap - two types of events which occur infrequently and which, on
a net basis, slightly increased the net interest margin in 1993 over 1992.

         The Company's 1993 net income was also marginally affected by an
increase in the Company's interest-related expenses that resulted from an
increase in the average quarter-end, debt-to-equity ratio from .8 to 1 in 1992
to 1 to 1 in 1993.  During 1993, the Company was proportionally using more debt
as a source of funds.  However, the fourth quarter equity offering (discussed
above) reduced the December 31, 1993 debt-to-equity ratio to .55 to 1.

         Management fees and other operating expenses were $5,072,000 in 1994,
$3,878,000 in 1993, and $3,005,000 in 1992.  The increases in management fees
were primarily attributable to the 1993 equity offering which substantially
increased shareholder equity.  The increases in other operating expenses in
1994 and 1993 resulted from the increased level of marketing activity, general
growth of the Company, and increased professional fees.  The Company
anticipates that if the proposed agreement to acquire the Manager is
consummated, the management fees for 1995 would be reduced significantly.  In
addition, the Company anticipates the expenses that it would incur if
self-advised would be less than the management fee under the present terms of
the management agreement.

         The provision for losses was $1,000,000, $150,000, and $602,000 in
1994, 1993, 1992, respectively.  The increased provision in 1994 over 1993
reflected the difficulty the Company began to experience in





                                      -20-

1994 with two investments, one in Florida and a second in Michigan.  In
addition, the Company has one investment, several working capital loans to a
New Mexico retirement center, which has been on a non-accrual status for
several years.


IMPACT OF INFLATION
- -------------------
         During the past three years, inflation has not significantly affected
the earnings of the Company because of the moderate inflation rate.
Additionally, earnings of the Company are primarily long-term investments with
fixed interest rates.  These investments are mainly financed with a combination
of equity, senior notes and borrowings under the revolving lines of credit, of
which a portion is hedged with interest rate swaps.  During inflationary
periods, which generally are accompanied by rising interest rates, the
Company's ability to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new
investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing costs.  Presuming
the current inflation rate remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not
increase significantly, the Company believes that equity and debt financing
will be available.





                                      -21-

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS



Shareholders and Directors
Health Care REIT, Inc.



We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Health Care
REIT, Inc. as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1994.  Our audits also include the
financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14(d).  These
financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Health
Care REIT, Inc. at December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the consolidated results of
its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth herein.



                                                               ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Toledo, Ohio
February 8, 1995





                                      -22-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.

                          Consolidated Balance Sheets








See accompanying notes.





                                      -23-


                             Health Care REIT, Inc.

                       Consolidated Statements of Income










See accompanying notes.





                                      -24-



                             Health Care REIT, Inc.

                Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity










See accompanying notes.





                                      -25-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.

                     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows






See accompanying notes.





                                      -26-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                               December 31, 1994



1.       ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RELATED MATTERS

INDUSTRY

The Company is predominantly engaged in financing and leasing of health care
and related properties in domestic markets.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
its wholly owned subsidiary (organized in 1993) after the elimination of all
significant intercompany accounts and transactions.

LOANS RECEIVABLE

Loans receivable consist of construction-period and short-term loans maturing
in two years or less, working capital loans to related parties, and long-term
mortgage loans.  Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon
the principal amount outstanding.  The loans are generally collateralized by a
first or second mortgage on or assignment of partnership interest in the
related facilities, which consist of nursing homes, assisted living facilities,
retirement centers, rehabilitation facilities, behavioral care facilities,
primary care facilities and specialty care hospitals.

INVESTMENT IN OPERATING-LEASE PROPERTIES

Certain properties owned by the Company are leased under operating leases.
These properties are recorded at the lower of cost or anticipated selling
price.  Depreciation is provided for at rates which are expected to amortize
the cost of the assets over their estimated useful lives using the straight
line method.  Operating lease income includes the rent payments and certain
guaranty payments by the lessee, which are generally recognized on a
straight-line basis over the minimum lease period.

INVESTMENT IN DIRECT FINANCING LEASES

Certain properties owned by the Company are subject to long-term leases which
are accounted for by the direct financing method.  The leases provide for
payment of all taxes, insurance and maintenance by the lessees.  The leases are
for a term of 20 years and include an option to purchase the properties
generally after a period of five years.   Option prices equal or exceed the
Company's original cost of the property.  Income from direct financing leases
is recorded based upon the implicit rate of interest over the lease term.  This
income is greater than the amount of cash received during the first six to
seven years of the lease term.





                                      -27-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)



1.       ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RELATED MATTERS (CONTINUED)

ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES

The allowance for losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb
potential losses in the Company's real estate related investments.  The
determination of the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of these
earning assets (in the case of direct financing leases, estimated residual
values), including general economic conditions, estimated collectibility of
loan and lease payments, reappraisals (where appropriate), and the
recoverability of the carrying amount of these investments in relationship to
their net realizable value.

DEFERRED LOAN EXPENSES

Deferred loan expenses are costs incurred in acquiring financing for
properties.  The Company amortizes these costs by the straight line method over
the term of the debt.

LOAN AND COMMITMENT FEES

Loan and commitment fees are earned by the Company for its agreement to provide
direct and standby financing to, and credit enhancement for, owners of health
care facilities.  The Company amortizes loan and commitment fees over the
period of the commitment and the contractual life of the investment.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an
original maturity of three months or less.

FEDERAL INCOME TAX

No provision has been made for federal income taxes since the Company has
elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust under the applicable
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and the Company believes that it has
met the requirements for qualification as such for each taxable year.  See Note
8.

NET INCOME PER SHARE

Net income per share has been computed by dividing net income by the weighted
daily average number of shares outstanding.





                                      -28-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)



2.       LOANS RECEIVABLE

The following is a summary of loans receivable:




Loans to related parties included above are at competitive rates but not at
less than the Company's net interest cost on borrowings to support such loans.
The amount of interest earned on loans to related parties amounted to
$3,220,092, $2,869,911, and $2,463,539 for 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

The following is a summary of mortgage loans at December 31, 1994:








                                      -29-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)





2.     LOANS RECEIVABLE (CONTINUED)






One loan maturing in 1996 has a prior lien of approximately $1,195,000; and six
loans maturing in 2007 have prior liens aggregating $1,753,000.  A significant
portion of monthly mortgage payments increase by 2% per year with the negative
amortization of principal due at maturity.  At December 31, 1994, there was one
delinquent mortgage loan of $3,137,000 with $1,231,000 principal past due for
three months or more.

The Company generally requires that the borrower have a substantial initial
investment in the property.  No mortgage loan, or multiple loans to a single
borrower, exceeds 8% of total assets.





                                      -30-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)



3.       INVESTMENT IN LEASES

The following are the components of investment in direct financing leases:



At December 31, 1994, future minimum lease payments receivable are as follows:




During 1994, the Company restructured two direct financing leases; one into a
$3,324,000 mortgage loan and the other into a $3,582,000 operating lease.
During 1993, the Company restructured a $10,500,000 mortgage loan into an
operating lease.  This noncash investing activity is appropriately not
reflected in the accompanying statement of cash flows.


4.       ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES

The following is a summary of the allowance for losses for 1994, 1993 and 1992.
The portion of the allowance relating to loans receivable consists of amounts
for specifically identified loans and an unallocated amount for other potential
losses in the portfolio.





                                      -31-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)



4.   ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES (CONTINUED)





5.       BORROWINGS UNDER LINE OF CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS
         AND RELATED ITEMS

The Company has a credit arrangement with a consortium of ten banks providing
for a revolving line of credit (revolving credit) in the amount of $150,000,000
which expires on March 31, 1997.  The agreement specifies that borrowings under
the revolving credit are subject to interest payable in periods no longer than
three months on either the agent bank's base rate of interest or 1 1/2% over
LIBOR interest rate (based at the Company's option).  In addition, the Company
pays a commitment fee at an annual rate of 1/2% of the unused line and an
annual agent's fee of $75,000.  At December 31, 1994, the revolving line of
credit was collateralized by 27 real estate related investments in health care
facilities.  Principal is due upon expiration of the agreement, but the total
amount outstanding may not exceed a specified percentage of the agreed-upon
values of the collateral.

The Company has two other lines of credit with two banks for a total of
$18,500,000 which expire at various dates through May 31, 1995.  Borrowings
under these lines of credit are subject to interest at each bank's prime rate
of interest and are due on demand.

The following information relates to aggregate borrowings under the line of
credit arrangements:





                                      -32-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)



5.       BORROWINGS UNDER LINE OF CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS
         AND RELATED ITEMS (CONTINUED)





The Company has two five-year interest rate swap agreements, which expire at
various dates through 1997, aggregating $30,000,000 for the purpose of reducing
the Company's interest rate risk on its borrowings under the revolving credit.
Maximum rates of interest under the swap agreements are 8.77% and 10%.  At
December 31, 1994, the Company had elected to borrow $52,000,000 at three to
six-month LIBOR.  The Company also has one two-year variable interest rate swap
agreement which expires in May 1995 which  effectively  converts  $40,000,000
of  fixed interest rate Senior Notes (see Note 6) to a variable interest rate.
The interest rate cost for the variable interest rate swap at December 31, 1994
is 235 basis points.  The differential to be paid or received is accrued as
interest rates change and are recognized as an interest expense.  The related
amount payable to or receivable from counter-parties is included in other
liabilities or assets.  The fair value of the swap agreements are not
recognized in the financial statements.

The Company may or may not elect to continue to match certain of its borrowings
with interest rate swap agreements.  Such decisions are principally based on
the Company's policy to match its variable rate investments with comparable
borrowings, but is also based on the general trend in interest rates at the
applicable dates and the Company's perception of future volatility of interest
rates.  At December 31, 1994, the Company is at risk for declining interest
rates because its variable interest rate assets exceeds its variable interest
rate debt.

The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the
other parties to the interest rate swap agreements.  However, the Company does
not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties.

Interest paid amounted to $9,256,551, $10,409,852 and $8,099,808 for 1994, 1993
and 1992, respectively, which includes $1,309,368, $2,155,260 and $1,824,131,
respectively, for the net cost of the swaps.





                                      -33-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)



6.       SENIOR NOTES AND OTHER LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

During 1993, the Company issued $52,000,000 of Senior Notes with interest
ranging from 7.16% to 8.24% and maturing in 1998, 2000 and 2003.  These notes
are collateralized by 12 real estate related investments in health care
facilities.

The following information relates to other long-term obligations:




At December 31, 1994, the annual payments on these long-term obligations for
the succeeding five years are as follows:





7.       STOCK OPTIONS

The Company's 1985 Incentive Stock Option Plan authorized up to 450,000 shares
of Common Stock to be issued at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

The following summarizes the activity in the Plan:





                                      -34-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)



7.       STOCK OPTIONS (CONTINUED)




At December 31, 1994, the option prices ranged from $11.94 to $23.94 per share.
The option prices were equivalent to the market prices of the shares on the
dates granted.  Such options expire ten years after the date granted.  Options
exercised during 1994 and 1993 were at prices ranging from $11.94 to $17.69 per
share.  During 1994 and 1993, Messrs. Thompson and Wolfe exercised 20,360 and
27,173 shares, respectively, and together have options to purchase 76,140
shares at December 31, 1994.


8.       DISTRIBUTIONS

In order to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust for federal
income tax purposes, 95% of taxable income (not including capital gains) must
be distributed to shareholders.  Real estate investment trusts which do not
distribute a certain amount of current year taxable income in the current year
are also subject to a 4% federal excise tax.  The Company's excise tax expense
was $575,000 and $132,000 for the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993,
respectively.  Undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes
amounted to $18,029,000 at December 31, 1994.  The principal reason for the
difference between undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes and
financial statement purposes is the use of the operating method of accounting
for leases for federal income tax purposes.  Cash distributions paid to
shareholders, for federal income tax purposes, are as follows:








                                      -35-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)




9.       COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

At December 31, 1994, the Company has outstanding commitments to provide
financing for facilities in the approximate amount of $114,972,000.  The
Company also has commitments to provide working capital loans to related
parties of approximately $369,000.  The Company has granted to a partnership a
credit facility line to finance retirement facilities.  The Company's board of
directors retains the right to approve the financing of each facility.  At
December 31, 1994, the unused portion is $19,800,000.  The above commitments
are generally on similar terms as existing financings of a like nature with
rates of return to the Company based upon current market rates at the time of
the commitment.

The Company has entered into a number of agreements to purchase health care
facilities, or the loans with respect thereto, in the event that the present
owners default upon their obligations.  In consideration for these agreements,
the Company generally receives and recognizes fees annually related to these
guarantees.  Although the terms of these agreements vary, the purchase prices
are equal to the amount of the outstanding obligations financing the facility.
These agreements expire between the years 1997 and 2005.  At December 31, 1994,
obligations under these agreements for which the Company was contingently
liable aggregated approximately $20,175,000, all of which were with related
parties.

The Company believes that it has the ability to obtain funds to meet these
commitments.  The Company also believes that such commitments represent no
greater than normal risk.


10.      MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT AND CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES

The Company has a management agreement with First Toledo Advisory Company (the
Manager).  F. D. Wolfe and B. G. Thompson, two of the Company's nine directors,
are officers and co-owners of the Manager.  The Company accrues a fee to the
Manager at a monthly rate of 1/10 of 1% of the Company's net assets, as defined
in the Management Agreement.  Further, the Manager is entitled to an annual
incentive fee equal to 10% of the amount by which net profits exceed 10% of the
monthly average net worth of the Company, as defined in the Management
Agreement.

Messrs. Wolfe and Thompson are also related to various entities:  a) to which
the Company has made mortgage loans and working capital loans yielding interest
income (see Note 2); b) with which the Company has entered into agreements to
purchase health care facilities, or the loans with respect thereto, upon
default of obligations by their present owners providing fee income of
$338,722, $422,438, and $349,650 for 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively; and c)
with which the Company has entered into operating lease agreements (see Note
3).





                                      -36-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)



10.      MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT AND CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES
         (CONTINUED)

The Company recorded income from related parties as follows:




In accordance with the By-Laws of the Company, such transactions were approved
by a majority of the directors not affiliated with the transactions.

On February 6, 1995, the Company's Board of Directors approved in principle the
acquisition of the Manager.  Under the agreement in principle, the Company
would issue 215,514 shares of common stock as consideration for the acquisition
of the Manager, subject to adjustment under certain circumstances.  In
connection with the closing of the acquisition, Messrs. Thompson and Wolfe
would enter into five-year service agreements and would each purchase 84,191
shares of common stock at a price of $21.38 per share with funds loaned by the
Company.  Under the stock purchase and loan arrangements, 20% of each loan
could be forgiven each year if continued service and stock price performance
tests are met.  This agreement is subject to, among other things, shareholder
approval and is anticipated to close in the second quarter of 1995.


11.      SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN

Under the terms of a Shareholder Rights Plan approved by the Board of Directors
in July 1994, a Preferred Share Right (Right) is attached to and automatically
trades with each outstanding share of Health Care REIT, Inc. common stock.

The Rights, which are redeemable, will become exercisable only in the event
that any person or group becomes a holder of 15% or more of the Company's
stock, or commences a tender or exchange offer which, if consummated, would
result in that person or group owning at least 15% of the common stock.  Once
the Rights become exercisable, they entitle all other shareholders to purchase
one one-thousandth of a share of a new series of junior participating preferred
stock for an exercise price of $48.00.  The Rights will expire on August 5,
2004 unless exchanged earlier or redeemed earlier by the Company for $.01 per
Right at any time before public disclosure that a 15% position has been
acquired.





                                      -37-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)





12.      DISCLOSURE ABOUT FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of
each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate
that value.

Mortgage Loans--The fair value of all mortgage loans, except those matched with
debt, is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using the current rates
at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings
and for the same remaining maturities.  Mortgage loans matched with debt are
presumed to be at fair value.

Working Capital and Construction Loans--The carrying amount is a reasonable
estimate of fair value for working capital and construction loans because the
interest earned on these instruments is variable.

Cash and Cash Equivalents--The carrying amount approximates fair value because
of the short maturity of these financial instruments.

Borrowings Under Line of Credit Arrangements and Related Items--The carrying
amount of the line of credit approximates fair value because the borrowings are
interest rate adjustable.  The fair value of interest rate swaps is the
estimated amount, taking into account the current interest rate, that the
Company would receive or pay to terminate the swap agreements at the reporting
date.

Senior Notes and Industrial Development Bonds--The fair value of the senior
notes payable and the industrial development bonds was estimated by discounting
the future cash flow using the current borrowing rate available to the Company
for similar debt.

Mortgage Loans Payable--Mortgage loans payable is a reasonable estimate of fair
value because they are matched with loan receivable.

Commitments to Finance and Guarantees of Obligations--The fair value of the
commitments to finance and guarantees of obligations are based on fees
currently charged to enter into similar agreements, taking into account the
remaining terms of the agreements, and the counterparties' credit standing.

The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Company's financial
instruments at December 31, 1994 and 1993 are as follows:





                                      -38-

                             Health Care REIT, Inc.
             Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued)



12.      DISCLOSURE ABOUT FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)







13.      QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

The following is a summary of the unaudited quarterly results of operations of
the Company for the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993:











                                      -39-

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
         ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

      Not applicable.




                                    PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

      The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
reference to the information under the heading "Election of Directors" and
"Executive Officers of the Company" in the definitive proxy statement of the
Company which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 30, 1995.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

      The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
reference to the information under the heading "Remuneration" in the definitive
proxy statement of the Company which will be filed with the Commission prior to
April 30, 1995.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
          AND MANAGEMENT

      The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
reference to the information under the heading "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners" in the definitive proxy statement of the Company which will
be filed with the Commission prior to April 30, 1995.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

      The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
reference to the information under the heading "Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions" in the definitive proxy statement of the Company which
will be filed with the Commission prior to April 30, 1995.





                                      -40-

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS
                 ON FORM 8-K

(a)      1.      The following Financial Statements of the Registrant are
                 included in Part II, Item 8:

                 Report of Independent Auditors.....................  22
                 Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 1994
                   and 1993.........................................  23
                 Consolidated Statements of Income - Years ended
                    December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992................  24
                 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity -
                    Years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992....  25
                 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - Years
                    ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992..........  26
                 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements -
                    December 31, 1994...............................  27

         2.      The following Financial Statement Schedule is included in Item
                 14 (d):

                  IV -    Mortgage Loans on Real Estate

                 All other schedules for which provision is made in the
                 applicable accounting regulation of the Securities and
                 Exchange Commission are not required under the related
                 instructions or are inapplicable and therefore have been
                 omitted.

         3.      Exhibit Index:

                 3(i)     Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of
                          the Registrant.

                3(ii)     By-Laws, as amended.

                  4       The Registrant, by signing this Report, agrees to
                          furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission upon
                          its request a copy of any instrument which defines
                          the rights of holders of long-term debt of Registrant
                          and which authorizes a total amount of securities not
                          in excess of 10% of the total assets of the
                          Registrant.

           10(ii)(A)      Management Agreement between the Registrant and
                          First Toledo Corporation and its successor First
                          Toledo Advisory Company, dated January 17, 1994.

           10(iii)(A)     The 1985 Incentive Stock Option Plan of Health Care
                          REIT, Inc. as amended.

                  21      Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

                  23      Consent of Independent Auditors.

                  24      Powers of Attorney.





                                      -41-

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS
          ON FORM 8-K (CONTINUED)


(b)      Reports on Form 8-K.

               A report on Form 8-K was filed on February 13, 1995, reporting
               on the agreement in principle of the acquisition of the
               Manager by the Company.

(c)      Exhibits:
               The exhibits listed in Item 14(a)(3) above are filed with this
               Form 10-K.

(d)     Financial Statement Schedule:
               Financial statement schedule is included in pages 67 through 69.





                                      -42-


         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


                                                     HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
                                                         (Registrant)



March 6, 1995                                By:        BRUCE G. THOMPSON      
                                                -------------------------------
                                                Bruce G. Thompson, Principal
                                                Executive Officer, Chairman and
                                                Director



         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below on March 6, 1995 by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



         PIER C. BORRA*                             BRUCE G. THOMPSON         
- --------------------------------           -----------------------------------
Pier C. Borra, Director                    Bruce G. Thompson, Principal
                                           Executive Officer, Chairman and
                                           Director


      GEORGE L. CHAPMAN*                            FREDERIC D. WOLFE         
- -------------------------------            -----------------------------------
George L. Chapman, Director                Frederic D. Wolfe, President and
                                           Director


     GEORGE CHOPIVSKY, JR.*                       RICHARD A. UNVERFERTH      
- -------------------------------            ----------------------------------
George Chopivsky, Jr., Director            Richard A. Unverferth, Director


         BRUCE DOUGLAS*                           KATHLEEN S. PREPHAN        
- -------------------------------            ----------------------------------
Bruce Douglas, Director                    Kathleen S. Prephan, Principal
                                           Accounting Officer


     RICHARD C. GLOWACKI*                          ROBERT J. PRUGER          
- -------------------------------            ----------------------------------
Richard C. Glowacki, Director              Robert J. Pruger, Principal
                                           Financial Officer


       SHARON M. OSTER*                    *By:      BRUCE G. THOMPSON       
- -------------------------------            ----------------------------------
Sharon M. Oster, Director                  Bruce G. Thompson, Attorney-in-Fact





                                      -43-




                                      

                                      



                                      

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX


         The following documents are included in this Form 10-K as an Exhibit:









                                      -44-

                              MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT


This Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the "Agreement"), by and between
HEALTH CARE REIT, INC., (hereinafter referred to as the "Company"), a Delaware
corporation and as defined in Sections 856 et seq. Internal Revenue Code of
1986 (hereinafter referred to as the "IRC") and FIRST TOLEDO CORPORATION, an
Ohio corporation having its principal office in Toledo, Ohio (hereinafter
referred to as the "Manager"), is made this 17th day of January, 1994:

                              W I T N E S S E T H:
                              - - - - - - - - - -

 1.      The Manager shall execute the business and investment transactions of
         the Company in its name and for its account and risk by receiving,
         managing, and transferring securities, real property, leaseholds, real
         estate mortgages, and other assets or liabilities, subject always to
         the authority and supervision of the Directors.  The Manager shall
         also furnish the following services itself, or by arrangement with
         others, to the Company:

         A.      Investment advisory, financial consulting and electronic data
                 processing services in connection with the considerations and
                 decisions made by the Directors;

         B.      Reportorial and research functions, including provisions of
                 economic and statistical data relating to securities,
                 contracts, real property and mortgage investments;

         C.      The services of a consultant, accountant, mortgage banker,
                 technical advisor, legal advisor, attorney in fact, broker,
                 underwriter, corporate fiduciary, escrow agent, depository,
                 custodian or agent for collection, insurer or insurance agent,
                 or any other service deemed by the Directors necessary or
                 desirable;

         D.      Negotiating and contracting with persons acting in the above
                 capacities and the employment and retention of same and any
                 other persons in connection with the mortgages or assets or
                 liabilities acquired, held or disposed of, or committed,
                 negotiated or contemplated to be acquired, held or disposed
                 of;

         E.      Managing or operating any assets or properties held by the
                 Company directly or through affiliates, or independent
                 contractors as defined in Section 856 et seq. of the IRC;

         F.      Acting as attorney in fact or agent in the purchase or sale or
                 other disposition of investments, and in handling, prosecuting
                 or settling of any claims of the Company, including the
                 foreclosure or other enforcement of any mortgage or other lien
                 or other security securing or guaranteeing investments, and
                 exercising its own sound discretion in so doing;





                                      -45-

