Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties.



All of our periodic reports filed with the United States (U.S.) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, through our website, www.fcx.com, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports. These reports and amendments are available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material to the SEC.



References to “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Freeport-McMoRan Inc. (FCX) and its consolidated subsidiaries. References to “Notes” refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included herein (refer to Item 8), and references to “MD&A” refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included herein (refer to Item 7).



GENERAL



We are a premier U.S.-based natural resource company with an industry leading global portfolio of mineral assets, significant oil and natural gas resources and a growing production profile. Our principal executive offices are in Phoenix, Arizona, and our company was incorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware on November 10, 1987.



Our portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, one of the world's largest copper and gold deposits, significant mining operations in North and South America, the Tenke Fungurume (Tenke) minerals district in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in Africa and significant oil and natural gas assets in North America. As further discussed in Note2, during 2014, we completed sales of our80 percentownership interests in the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado copper mining operations and of our Eagle Ford shale assets, and also acquired additional oil and gas interests in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico (GOM). Following are FCX's ownership interests atDecember 31, 2014, in its operating mines through its subsidiaries Freeport Minerals Corporation (FMC) and PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI), and in its oil and gas business through its subsidiary, FCX Oil & Gas Inc. (FM O&G):



a.FMC has an 85 percent undivided interest in Morenci via an unincorporated joint venture. Additionally, PT-FI has established an unincorporated joint venture with Rio Tinto plc (Rio Tinto) related to our Indonesia operations. Refer to Note3for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries and joint ventures.











Mining

AtDecember 31, 2014, our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves totaled103.5 billionpounds of copper,28.5 millionounces of gold,3.11 billionpounds of molybdenum,282.9 millionounces of silver and0.85 billionpounds of cobalt. Following is a summary of our consolidated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves atDecember 31, 2014, by geographic location (refer to “Mining Operations” for further discussion):

CopperGoldMolybdenumSilverCobaltNorth America34%1%78%30%—South America31%—22%31%—Indonesia28%99%—39%—Africa7%———100%100%100%100%100%100%



In North America, we have seven operating copper mines – Morenci, Bagdad, Safford, Sierrita and Miami in Arizona, and Chino and Tyrone in New Mexico, and two operating molybdenum mines – Henderson and Climax in Colorado. In addition to copper, certain of our North America copper mines also produce molybdenum concentrates and silver. In South America, we have two operating copper mines – Cerro Verde in Peru and El Abra in Chile. In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine also produces molybdenum concentrates and silver. In Indonesia, our subsidiary PT-FI operates the mines in the Grasberg minerals district. In addition to copper, the Grasberg minerals district also produces significant quantities of gold and silver. In Africa, our subsidiary Tenke Fungurume Mining S.A. (TFM) operates the mines in the Tenke minerals district. In addition to copper, the Tenke minerals district also produces cobalt hydroxide.



Following is a summary of our consolidated copper, gold and molybdenum production for the year2014by geographic location (refer to "Mining Operations" for further information):

CopperGoldMolybdenumNorth America43%1%88%South America30%a6%a12%Indonesia16%93%—Africa11%——100%100%100%

a.Includes production from the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines totaling 284 million pound of copper (7 percent of consolidated FCX production) and 72 thousand ounces of gold (6 percent of consolidated FCX production). On November 3, 2014, FCX completed the sale of its 80 percent ownership interests in the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mining operations.





The locations of our operating mines are shown on the world map below.









Oil and Gas

At December 31, 2014, our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves totaled390 millionbarrels of oil equivalents (MMBOE). All of our proved oil and natural gas reserves were located in the U.S., with74 percentcomprised of oil (including natural gas liquids, or NGLs) and63 percentrepresented by proved developed reserves. Refer to “Oil and Gas Operations” for further discussion. Our oil and gas operations include oil production facilities and growth potential in the Deepwater GOM, established oil production facilities onshore and offshore California, large onshore natural gas resources in the Haynesville shale play in Louisiana, natural gas production from the Madden area in central Wyoming, and an industry-leading position in the emerging Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous natural gas trend located in the shallow waters of the GOM and onshore in South Louisiana.



The locations of our U.S. oil and gas operations are shown on the map below:







COPPER, GOLD, MOLYBDENUM AND OIL



Following provides a brief discussion of our primary natural resources, copper, gold, molybdenum and oil. For further discussion of historical market prices of these commodities refer to MD&A.



Copper

Copper is an internationally traded commodity, and its prices are determined by the major metals exchanges – the London Metal Exchange (LME), New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) and Shanghai Futures Exchange. Prices on these exchanges generally reflect the worldwide balance of copper supply and demand, and can be volatile and cyclical. During2014, the LME spot copper price ranged from a low of$2.86per pound to a high of$3.38per pound, averaged$3.11per pound, and was$2.88per pound atDecember 31, 2014.



In general, demand for copper reflects the rate of underlying world economic growth, particularly in industrial production and construction. According to Wood Mackenzie, a widely followed independent metals market consultant, copper’s end-use markets (and their estimated shares of total consumption) are construction (30 percent), consumer products (28 percent), electrical applications (19 percent), transportation (12 percent) and industrial machinery (11 percent).



Gold

Gold is used for jewelry, coinage and bullion as well as various industrial and electronic applications. Gold can be readily sold on numerous markets throughout the world. Benchmark prices are generally based on London Bullion Market Association (London) PM quotations. During2014, the London PM gold price ranged from a low of$1,142per ounce to a high of$1,385per ounce, averaged$1,266per ounce, and was$1,199per ounce atDecember 31, 2014.













Molybdenum

Molybdenum is a key alloying element in steel and the raw material for several chemical-grade products used in catalysts, lubrication, smoke suppression, corrosion inhibition and pigmentation. Molybdenum, as a high-purity metal, is also used in electronics such as flat-panel displays and in super alloys used in aerospace. Reference prices for molybdenum are available in several publications, includingMetals Week,Ryan’s NotesandMetal Bulletin. During2014, the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted byMetals Weekranged from a low of$8.82per pound to a high of$15.00per pound, averaged$11.41per pound, and was$9.00per pound atDecember 31, 2014.



Oil

Oil products include transportation fuels, fuel oils for heating and electricity generation, asphalt and road oil, and the feedstocks used to make chemicals, plastics and synthetic materials. The price of crude oil is set in the global marketplace, with prices largely determined by regional benchmarks, including Brent, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) and Heavy Louisiana Sweet. Prices generally reflect the worldwide supply and demand balance, and can be volatile. During 2014, the Brent crude oil price ranged from a low of$57.33per barrel to a high of$115.06per barrel, averaged$99.45per barrel, and was$57.33per barrel atDecember 31, 2014.





PRODUCTS AND SALES



FCX’s consolidated revenues for2014primarily included sales of copper (60 percent), oil (20 percent), gold (7 percent) and molybdenum (6 percent). Refer to Note16for a summary of our consolidated revenues and operating income by business segment and geographic area.



PT-FI's copper concentrate sales to PT Smelting (PT-FI's 25 percent owned copper smelter and refinery in Indonesia - refer to "Mining Operations - Smelting Facilities and Other Mining Properties" for further discussion) represented8 percentof our consolidated revenues in both2014and2013and11 percentin2012. Additionally, oil and gas sales to Phillips 66 Company represented 12 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2014. No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenues in any of the past three years.



Copper Products

We are one of the world’s leading producers of copper concentrate, cathode and continuous cast copper rod. During2014,44 percentof our mined copper was sold in concentrate,31 percentas cathode and25 percentas rod.



Our copper ore is generally processed either by smelting and refining or by solution extraction and electrowinning (SX/EW). Before being subject to the smelting and refining process, ore is crushed and treated to produce a copper concentrate with copper content of approximately 20 to 30 percent. Copper concentrate is then smelted (i.e., subjected to extreme heat) to produce copper anodes, which weigh between 800 and 900 pounds each and have an average copper content of 99.5 percent. The anodes are further treated by electrolytic refining to produce copper cathodes, which weigh between 100 and 350 pounds each and have an average copper content of 99.99 percent. For ore subject to the SX/EW process, copper is extracted from the ore by dissolving it with a weak sulphuric acid solution. The copper content of the solution is increased in two additional solution-extraction stages and then the copper-bearing solution undergoes an electrowinning process to produce cathode that is, on average, 99.99 percent copper. Our copper cathodes are used as the raw material input for copper rod, brass mill products and for other uses.



Copper Concentrate.  We produce copper concentrate at six of our mines, of which PT-FI is our largest producer. In North America, copper concentrate is produced at our Morenci, Bagdad, Sierrita and Chino mines, and is generally shipped to our Miami smelter in Arizona. In South America, copper concentrate is produced at our Cerro Verde mine.



Copper Cathode.  We produce copper cathode at our electrolytic refinery located in El Paso, Texas, and at 10 of our mines. In North America, SX/EW cathode is produced from our Morenci, Bagdad, Safford, Sierrita, Miami, Chino and Tyrone mines; in South America from our Cerro Verde and El Abra mines; and from the Tenke minerals district in Africa.Atlantic Copper S.L.U. (Atlantic Copper, our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in Spain - refer to "Mining Operations - Smelting Facilities and Other Mining Properties" for further discussion) and PT Smelting also produce copper cathode.











Continuous Cast Copper Rod.  We manufacture continuous cast copper rod at our facilities in El Paso, Texas; Norwich, Connecticut; and Miami, Arizona, primarily using copper cathode produced at our North America copper mines.



Copper Sales

North America.  The majority of the copper produced at our North America copper mines and refined in our El Paso, Texas, refinery is consumed at our rod plants. The remainder of our North America copper production is sold in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate under U.S. dollar-denominated annual contracts. Cathode and rod contract prices are generally based on the prevailing Commodity Exchange Inc. (COMEX - a division of NYMEX) monthly average spot price for the month of shipment and include a premium. Generally, copper rod is sold to wire and cable manufacturers, while cathode is sold to rod, brass or tube fabricators. During2014, 19 percent of our North America mines' copper sales volumes were shipped to Atlantic Copper in the form of copper concentrate.



South America.Production from our South America mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under U.S. dollar-denominated, annual and multi-year contracts. For the year 2015, our South America mines expect to sell approximately 50 to 60 percent of copper production in concentrate and the rest as cathode.



During2014, 21 percent of our South America mines' copper sales volumes were shipped to Atlantic Copper in the form of copper concentrate.



Substantially all of South America’s copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted LME monthly average spot copper prices. Revenues from South America’s concentrate sales are recorded net of treatment and refining charges (i.e.,fees paid to smelters and refiners that are generally negotiated annually), including any applicable price participation charges that are based on the market price of copper. In addition, because a portion of the metals contained in copper concentrates is unrecoverable from the smelting process, revenues from South America’s concentrate sales are also recorded net of allowances for unrecoverable metals, which are a negotiated term of the contracts and vary by customer.



Indonesia.PT-FI sells its production in the form of copper concentrate, which contains significant quantities of gold and silver, under U.S. dollar-denominated, long-term contracts. PT-FI also sells a small amount of copper concentrates in the spot market. Following is a summary of PT-FI’s aggregate percentage concentrate sales to PT Smelting, Atlantic Copper and third parties for the last three years:

201420132012PT Smelting58%41%52%Atlantic Copper6%9%11%Third parties36%50%37%100%100%100%



Substantially all of PT-FI’s concentrate sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted LME monthly average spot copper prices. Revenues from PT-FI’s concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties, export duties, treatment charges, and allowances for unrecoverable metals.



Africa.  TFM sells its production in the form of copper cathode under U.S. dollar-denominated contracts. Substantially all of TFM's cathode sales provide final copper pricing in the month after the shipment date based on quoted LME monthly average spot copper prices. Revenues from TFM's cathode sales are recorded net of royalties and also include adjustments for point-of-sale transportation costs that are negotiated in customer contracts.



Gold Products and Sales

We produce gold, mostly from the Grasberg minerals district. Gold is primarily sold as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes, which are a product of the smelting and refining process at Atlantic Copper. Gold generally is priced at the average London price for a specified month near the month of shipment. Revenues from gold sold as a component of our copper concentrate are recorded net of treatment and refining charges. Revenues from gold sold in slimes are recorded net of refining charges.













Molybdenum Products and Sales

We are the world’s largest producer of molybdenum and molybdenum-based chemicals. In addition to production from our Henderson and Climax molybdenum mines, we produce molybdenum concentrate at certain of our North America copper mines and our Cerro Verde copper mine in Peru. The majority of our molybdenum concentrates are processed in our own conversion facilities. Molybdenum generally is priced based on the averageMetals Weekprice for the month prior to the month of shipment.



Cobalt and Silver Products and Sales

We produce cobalt hydroxide at the Tenke minerals district. Cobalt hydroxide is priced at a discount to the average monthly low price as published byMetal Bulletinor using LME-based pricing for a specified month near the month of shipment.



We also produce silver as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes. Silver generally is priced at the average London price for a specified month near the month of shipment.



Oil and Gas Products and Sales

We produce and sell oil and gas in the U.S. Our oil production is primarily sold under contracts with prices based upon regional benchmarks. Approximately 40 percent of our gas production is sold monthly based on published index pricing, with the remainder priced daily on the spot market.



Approximately 70 percent of our California production is attributable to heavy crude oil, which is primarily sold under a long-term contract with prices based upon regional benchmarks. In the GOM, our share of oil and gas production is sold under a series of contracts pursuant to which crude oil is sold directly to refineries in the Gulf Coast regions of Texas and Louisiana at prices based on widely used industry benchmarks.





LABOR MATTERS



AtDecember 31, 2014, we employed approximately 35,000 people (13,200 in the U.S., 12,000 in Indonesia, 4,900 in South America, 3,500 in Africa and 1,400 in Europe and other locations). Additionally, we have contractors that have personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 19,800 at our South America mining operations (including contractors for the Cerro Verde expansion), 18,000 at the Grasbergminerals district, 4,600 at the Tenke minerals district, 3,400 in the U.S. and 500 in Europe and other locations. The number of employees represented by unions at December 31, 2014, and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements are listed below.

LocationNumber of UnionsNumber ofUnion-Represented EmployeesExpiration DatePT-FI – Indonesia19,244September 2015TFM – DRC113,404N/AaCerro Verde – Peru32,058August 2018El Abra – Chile21,069May 2016Atlantic Copper – Spain2434December 2015Kokkola - Finland3412November 2016Rotterdam – The Netherlands259March 2015Bayway – New Jersey137April 2016Stowmarket – United Kingdom135May 2017

a.The Collective Labor Agreement between TFM and its workers’ unions has no expiration date, but can be amended at any time in accordance with an established process. In September 2012, TFM negotiated a 4-year salary scale with union-represented employees.



Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for further information on labor matters.













ENVIRONMENTAL AND RECLAMATION MATTERS



The cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. For information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Notes1and12.





COMPETITION



The top 10 producers of copper comprise approximately half of total worldwide mined copper production. We currently rank second among those producers, with approximately eight percent of total worldwide estimated mined copper production. Our competitive position is based on the size, quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. We have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. Our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies and the level of input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. The metals markets are cyclical and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce and to manage our costs.



Within the oil and gas industry, our competitors include national and international oil companies, major integrated oil and gas companies, numerous independent oil and gas companies and others. There is substantial competition in the oil and gas industry. Our ability to identify and successfully develop additional prospects and to discover oil and gas reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties, consummate transactions and manage our operations in a cost-efficient and effective manner in a highly competitive environment.





MINING OPERATIONS



Following are maps and descriptions of our mining operations in North America (including both copper and molybdenum operations), South America, Indonesia and Africa.



North America

In the U.S., most of the land occupied by our copper and molybdenum mines, concentrators, SX/EW facilities, smelter, refinery, rod mills, molybdenum roasters and processing facilities is generally owned by us or is located on unpatented mining claims owned by us. Certain portions of our Bagdad, Sierrita, Miami, Chino, Tyrone, Henderson and Climax operations are located on government-owned land and are operated under a Mine Plan of Operations or other use permit. Various federal and state permits or leases on government land are held for purposes incidental to mine operations.



Morenci





We own an 85 percent undivided interest in Morenci, with the remaining 15 percent owned by affiliates of Sumitomo Corporation. Each partner takes in kind its share of Morenci’s production.



Morenci is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in continuous operation since 1939 and previously was mined through underground workings. Morenci is located in Greenlee County, Arizona, approximately 50 miles northeast of Safford on U.S. Highway 191. The site is accessible by a paved highway and a railway spur.











The Morenci mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral with chalcopyrite as the dominant primary copper sulfide.



The Morenci operation consists of two concentrators capable of milling 115,000 metric tons-per-day, which produce copper and molybdenum concentrates; a 68,000 metric ton-per-day crushed-ore leach pad and stacking system; a low-grade run-of-mine (ROM) leaching system; four SX plants; and three EW tank houses that produce copper cathode. Total EW tank house capacity is approximately 900 million pounds of copper per year. Morenci’s concentrate leach, direct-electrowinning facility, which was placed on care-and-maintenance status in early 2009, is expected to resume operation during 2015. Morenci's available mining fleet consists of one hundred and eleven 236-metric ton haul trucks loaded by 12 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 47 to 57 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 815,000 metric tons of material per day.



Morenci has expanded its mining and milling capacity to process additional sulfide ores identified through exploratory drilling. The mill expansion project commenced operations in May 2014 and is expected to achieve full rates in first-quarter 2015. The project targets average incremental annual production (net of our joint venture partner's share) of approximately 225 million pounds of copper through an increase in milling rates from 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to 115,000 metric tons of ore per day. Morenci's copper production (net of our joint venture partner's share) is expected to average over 900 million pounds per year over the next five years, compared with 691 million pounds for the year 2014.



Construction of the expanded Morenci milling facility is substantially complete. Remaining items include completion of the molybdenum circuit, which would add capacity of approximately 9 million pounds of molybdenum per year, and the construction of an expanded tailings storage facility. Both are expected to be completed in 2015.



Morenci’s production, including our joint venture partner’s share, totaled812 millionpounds of copper and less than 1 million pounds of molybdenum in2014,664 millionpounds of copper and2 millionpounds of molybdenum in2013, and632 millionpounds of copper and3 millionpounds of molybdenum in2012.



Morenci is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 13 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 840 meters above sea level. The Morenci operation encompasses approximately 65,100 acres, comprising 51,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, 10,900 acres of unpatented mining claims and 3,050 acres of land held by state or federal permits, easements and rights-of-way.



The Morenci operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from Tucson Electric Power Company, Arizona Public Service Company and the Luna Energy facility in Deming, New Mexico. Although we believe the Morenci operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the Morenci operation. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion.

Bagdad





Our wholly owned Bagdad mine is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in Yavapai County in west-central Arizona. It is approximately 60 miles west of Prescott and 100 miles northwest of Phoenix. The









property can be reached by Arizona Highway 96, which ends at the town of Bagdad. The closest railroad is at Hillside, Arizona, approximately 24 miles southeast on Arizona Highway 96. The open-pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was conducted through underground workings.

The Bagdad mine is a porphyry copper deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. Chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic minerals in the mine. Chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite and azurite.



The Bagdad operation consists of a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, an SX/EW plant that can produce up to 32 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by low-grade stockpile leaching, and a pressure leach plant to process molybdenum concentrates. The available mining fleet consists of thirty 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 44 to 62 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 200,000 metric tons of material per day.



Bagdad’s production totaled237 millionpounds of copper and9 millionpounds of molybdenum in2014,216 millionpounds of copper and8 millionpounds of molybdenum in2013, and197 millionpounds of copper and10 millionpounds of molybdenum in2012.



Bagdad is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 310 meters above sea level. The Bagdad operation encompasses approximately 21,750 acres, comprising 21,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 600 acres of unpatented mining claims.



Bagdad receives electrical power from Arizona Public Service Company. Although we believe the Bagdad operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may set legal precedents, which could adversely affect our water rights at Bagdad and at our other properties in Arizona. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion.



Safford





Our wholly owned Safford mine has been in operation since 2007 and is an open-pit copper mining complex located in Graham County, Arizona, approximately eight miles north of the town of Safford and 170 miles east of Phoenix. The site is accessible by paved county road off U.S. Highway 70.



The Safford mine includes two copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite.



The property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathodes. The operation consists of two open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day. The crushed ore is delivered to leach pads by a series of overland and portable conveyors. Leach solutions feed a SX/EW facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. A sulphur burner plant is also in operation at Safford, providing a cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in SX/EW operations. The available mining fleet consists of sixteen 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 225,000 metric tons of material per day.











Safford’s copper production totaled139 millionpounds in2014,146 millionpounds in2013and175 millionpounds in2012.



Safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,250 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 750 meters above sea level. The Safford operation encompasses approximately 25,000 acres, comprising 21,000 acres of patented lands, 3,950 acres of unpatented lands and 50 acres of land held by federal permit.



The Safford operation’s electrical power is primarily sourced from Tucson Electric Power Company, Arizona Public Service Company and the Luna Energy facility. Although we believe the Safford operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the Safford operation. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion.



Sierrita





Our wholly owned Sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in Pima County, Arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of Tucson and seven miles west of the town of Green Valley and Interstate Highway 19. The site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail.



The Sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides.



The Sierrita operation includes a 102,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates. Sierrita also produces copper from a ROM oxide-leaching system. Cathode copper is plated at the Twin Buttes EW facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. The Sierrita operation also has a copper sulfate crystal plant, which has the capacity to produce 40 million pounds of copper sulfate per year, and molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. The molybdenum facilities process molybdenum concentrate produced by Sierrita, from our other mines and from third-party sources. The available mining fleet consists of twenty-five 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 200,000 metric tons of material per day.



Sierrita’s production totaled195 millionpounds of copper and24 millionpounds of molybdenum in2014,171 millionpounds of copper and20 millionpounds of molybdenum in2013, and157 millionpounds of copper and21 millionpounds of molybdenum in2012.



Sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 12 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,160 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 440 meters above sea level. The Sierrita operation, including the adjacent Twin Buttes site (refer to "Smelting Facilities and Other Mining Properties" for further discussion), encompasses approximately 37,650 acres, comprising 13,300 acres of patented mining claims and 24,350 acres of split-estate lands.











Sierrita receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the Tucson Electric Power Company. Although we believe the Sierrita operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the Sierrita operation. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion.



Miami





Our wholly owned Miami mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in Gila County, Arizona, approximately 90 miles east of Phoenix and six miles west of the city of Globe on U.S. Highway 60. The site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail.



The Miami mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite. Chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals.



Since about 1915, the Miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies. Current operations include leaching by the SX/EW process. The design capacity of the SX/EW plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year. The available mining fleet consists of six 227-metric ton haul trucks loaded by one 34 cubic meter shovel dipper and one 19 cubic meter loader dipper. This fleet is capable of moving an average of 35,000 metric tons of material per day.



Miami’s copper production totaled57 millionpounds in2014,61 millionpounds in2013and66 millionpounds in2012.



Miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom will have an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. The Miami operation encompasses approximately 9,100 acres, comprising 8,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 350 acres of unpatented mining claims.



Miami receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the Salt River Project and natural gas through long-term contracts with El Paso Natural Gas as the transporter. Although we believe the Miami operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the Miami operation. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion.











Chino and Tyrone





Chino

Our wholly owned Chino mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in southwestern New Mexico in Grant County, approximately 15 miles east of the town of Silver City off of State Highway 180. The mine is accessible by paved roads and by rail. Chino has been in operation since 1910.



The Chino mine is a porphyry copper deposit with adjacent copper skarn deposits. There is leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and millable primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite the dominant primary sulfides.



The Chino operation consists of a 36,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, and a 150 million pound-per-year SX/EW plant that produces copper cathode from solution generated by ROM leaching. The available mining fleet consists of thirty-six 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 42 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 220,000 metric tons of material per day.



Chino's production totaled250 millionpounds of copper and less than 1 million pounds of molybdenum in2014,171 millionpounds of copper and2 millionpounds of molybdenum in2013, and144 millionpounds of copper and2 millionpounds of molybdenum in2012.



Chino is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 2,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,500 meters above sea level. The Chino operation encompasses approximately 118,600 acres, comprising 113,200 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 5,400 acres of unpatented mining claims.



Chino receives power from the Luna Energy facility and from the open market. We believe Chino has sufficient water resources to support current operations.



Tyrone

Our wholly owned Tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. It is located in southwestern New Mexico in Grant County, approximately 10 miles south of Silver City, New Mexico, along State Highway 90. The site is accessible by paved road and rail.



The Tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. Mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of chalcocite with leachable oxide mineralization consisting of chrysocolla.



Copper processing facilities consist of a SX/EW operation with a maximum capacity of approximately 100 million pounds of copper cathodes per year. The available mining fleet consists of nineteen 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by two shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 17 to 47 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 135,000 metric tons of material per day.



Tyrone’s copper production totaled94 millionpounds in2014,96 millionpounds in2013and83 millionpounds in2012.











Tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,500 meters above sea level. The Tyrone operation encompasses approximately 35,200 acres, comprising 18,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 16,450 acres of unpatented mining claims.



Tyrone receives electrical power from the Luna Energy facility and from the open market. We believe the Tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations.



Henderson and Climax





Henderson

Our wholly owned Henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located approximately 42 miles west of Denver, Colorado, off U.S. Highway 40. Nearby communities include the towns of Empire, Georgetown and Idaho Springs. The Henderson mill site is located approximately 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from Colorado State Highway 9. The Henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the Continental Divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. The tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill.



The Henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral.



The Henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 32,000 metric tons per day. Henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 40 million pounds of molybdenum per year. The majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our Fort Madison, Iowa, processing facility. The available underground mining equipment fleet consists of fourteen 9-metric ton load-haul-dump (LHD) units and seven 73-metric ton haul trucks, which deliver ore to a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles.



Henderson’s molybdenum production totaled30 millionpounds in both2014and2013and34 millionpounds in2012.



The Henderson mine is located in a mountainous region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. The main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. This region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months.



The Henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 11,900 acres, comprising 11,850 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and a 50-acre easement with the U.S. Forest Service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor.



Henderson operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with Xcel Energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with BP Energy Company (with Xcel Energy as the transporter). We believe the Henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations.



Climax

Our wholly owned Climax mine is located 13 miles northeast of Leadville, Colorado, off Colorado State Highway 91 at the top of Fremont Pass. The mine is accessible by paved roads.











The Climax ore body is a porphyry molybdenum deposit with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral.



The Climax open-pit mine includes a 25,000 metric ton-per-day mill facility. The available mining fleet consists of nine 177-metric ton haul trucks loaded by two hydraulic shovels with bucket sizes of 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 90,000 metric tons of material per day.



Molybdenum production from Climax totaled21 millionpounds in 2014,19 millionpounds in2013and7 millionpounds in 2012 (reflecting production since the start of commercial operations in May 2012).



The Climax mine is located in a mountainous region. The highest bench elevation is approximately 4,050 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of approximately 3,100 meters above sea level. This region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months.



The operations encompass approximately 14,350 acres, consisting primarily of patented mining claims and other fee lands.



Climax operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with Xcel Energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with BP Energy Company (with Xcel Energy as the transporter). We believe the Climax operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations.



South America

At our operations in South America, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. The claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have a controlling ownership interest. Roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements.



Cerro Verde





We have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in Cerro Verde, with the remaining 46.44 percent held by SMM Cerro Verde Netherlands B.V. (21.0 percent), Compañia de Minas Buenaventura S.A.A. (19.58 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the Lima Stock Exchange (5.86 percent).



Cerro Verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of Arequipa, Peru. The site is accessible by paved highway. A majority of Cerro Verde’s copper cathode production is sold locally and the remaining copper cathodes and concentrate production are transported approximately 70 miles by truck and rail to the Port of Matarani for shipment to international markets.



The Cerro Verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper “pitch.” Chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. Chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides.



Cerro Verde’s current operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, a 120,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator and SX/EW leaching facilities. Leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility and a ROM leach system. This SX/EW leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year.











The available fleet consists of two 305-metric ton haul trucks and fifty-five 230-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six electric shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 33 to 57 cubic meters and one hydraulic shovel with a bucket size of 21 cubic meters. This fleet is capable of moving an average of approximately 450,000 metric tons of material per day.



Construction activities associated with a large-scale expansion at Cerro Verde are advancing toward completion in late 2015. Detailed engineering and major procurement activities are complete and construction progress is more than 50 percent complete. The project will expand the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2016.



Cerro Verde’s production totaled500 millionpounds of copper and11 millionpounds of molybdenum in2014,558 millionpounds of copper and13 millionpounds of molybdenum in2013, and595 millionpounds of copper and8 millionpounds of molybdenum in2012.



Cerro Verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 2,750 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,570 meters above sea level. The Peruvian general mining law and Cerro Verde's mining stability agreement grants the surface rights of mining concessions located on government land. Cerro Verde has a mining concession covering approximately 157,000 acres, including 14,500 acres rented from the Regional Government of Arequipa, plus 71 acres of owned property, and 80 acres of rights-of-way outside the mining concession area.



Cerro Verde receives electrical power under long-term contracts with Kallpa Generación SA and Empresa de Generación Eléctrica de Arequipa. Cerro Verde will also begin to receive electrical power under long-term contracts with ElectroPeru beginning in 2015 to supply energy to the expanded facilities.



Water for our Cerro Verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. Cerro Verde’s participation in the Pillones Reservoir Project has allowed better regulation of the Rio Chili system, securing water rights that we believe will be sufficient to support Cerro Verde’s current operations. An agreement has been reached with the Regional Government of Arequipa, the National Government, the local water utility company, Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Arequipa S.A. (SEDAPAR), and other local institutions to allow Cerro Verde to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of Arequipa, which would be used to supplement existing water supplies to support the concentrator expansion. For further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”



El Abra





We own a 51 percent interest in El Abra, and the remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state-owned copper enterprise Corporación Nacional del Cobre de Chile (CODELCO).



El Abra is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of Calama in Chile’s El Loa province, Region II. The site is accessible by paved highway and by rail.











The El Abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has sulfide and oxide mineralization. The predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. There is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralization

as chalcocite. The oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. There are lesser amounts of copper-bearing clays and tenorite.



The El Abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a SX/EW facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 125,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized ROM leaching operation. The available fleet consists of forty-one 220-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 26 to 41 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 214,000 metric tons of material per day.



El Abra’s copper production totaled367 millionpounds in2014,343 millionpounds in2013and338 millionpounds in2012.



We continue to evaluate a potential large-scale milling operation at El Abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. Exploration results in recent years at El Abra indicate a significant sulfide resource, which could potentially support a major mill project. Future investments will be dependent on technical studies, economic factors and global copper market conditions.



El Abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 4,180 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,430 meters above sea level. El Abra controls a total of approximately 151,300 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. In addition, El Abra has land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the Salar de Ascotán aquifer.



El Abra currently receives electrical power under a long-term contract with E-Cl. Water for our El Abra processing operations comes from pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotán aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. We believe El Abra has sufficient water rights and regulatory approvals to support current operations. For a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”



Indonesia





Ownership. PT-FI is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the Republic of Indonesia. We directly own 81.28 percent of the outstanding common stock of PT-FI and indirectly own 9.36 percent through our wholly owned subsidiary, PT Indocopper Investama; the Indonesian government owns the remaining 9.36 percent.











PT-FI has established an unincorporated joint venture with Rio Tinto, under which Rio Tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021 in Block A of PT-FI's Contract of Work (COW), and after 2021, a 40 percent interest in all production from Block A. Refer to Note3for further discussion of the joint venture agreement.



Contracts of Work. PT-FI conducts its current exploration and mining operations in Indonesia through a COW with the Indonesian government. The COW governs our rights and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls, royalties, repatriation and other matters, and was concluded pursuant to the 1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which expresses Indonesia’s foreign investment policy and provides basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. Specifically, the COW provides that the Indonesian government will not nationalize or expropriate PT-FI’s mining operations. Any disputes regarding the provisions of the COW are subject to international arbitration; however, we have not had an arbitration during the more than 40 years we have operated in Indonesia.



PT-FI’s original COW was entered into in 1967 and was replaced by the current COW in 1991. The initial term of the current COW expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to Indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the COW cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. The COW allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in the 24,700-acre Block A area, which is where all of PT-FI’s proven and probable mineral reserves and all its current mining operations are located. Under the COW, PT-FI also conducts exploration activities in the Block B area currently covering 502,000 acres. Ongoing negotiations for an amended COW, discussed below and in Note13, may result in relinquishments of the Block B acreage.



PT-FI pays royalties on copper, gold and silver in the concentrate it sells. Prior to the modifications discussed below as of a result of the July 25, 2014, Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), PT-FI had agreed to pay additional royalties to the Indonesian government that are not required under its COW. The additional royalties provided further support to the local governments and to the people of the Indonesian province of Papua. PT-FI’s share of the royalties totaled$115 millionin2014(including the increased royalties per the MOU discussed below),$109 millionin2013and$93 millionin2012. Additionally, during 2014 PT-FI paid export duties totaling$77 millionin accordance with regulations issued by the Indonesian government on July 25, 2014. Refer to Note13and “Regulatory Matters” below for further discussion of increased royalties and export taxes.



Through joint venture agreements under separate COWs, we were allowed to conduct exploration activities in Papua, Indonesia, through two other entities: PT Nabire Bakti Mining (PTNBM) and PT Irja Eastern Minerals (Eastern Minerals), of which we own 100 percent. The COWs for PTNBM and Eastern Minerals expired in 2013, and we are working with the Indonesia government to complete the process to terminate the COWs and return the exploration areas to the Indonesia government. We have completed the required notifications and reviews and are awaiting the termination acceptance documents.



Regulatory Matters. As further discussed in Item 1A. "Risk Factors," PT-FI has been engaged in discussions with officials of the Indonesian government since 2012 regarding various provisions of its COW. The Indonesian government has sought to modify existing mining contracts, including PT-FI’s COW, to address provisions of Indonesia’s 2009 Mining Law and subsequent regulations, including with respect to the size of contract concessions, government revenues, domestic processing of minerals, divestment, provision of local services, conversion from a contract of work to a licensing framework for extension periods, and a requirement that extensions may be applied for only within two years prior to a contract of work’s expiration.



In January 2014, the Indonesian government published regulations providing that holders of contracts of work with existing processing facilities in Indonesia may continue to export product through January 12, 2017, but established new requirements for the continued export of copper concentrates, including the imposition of a progressive export duty on copper concentrates. Despite PT-FI’s rights under its COW to export concentrates without the payment of duties, PT-FI was unable to obtain administrative approval for exports and operated at approximately half of its capacity from mid-January 2014 through July 2014.



On July 25, 2014, PT-FI entered into a MOU with the Indonesian government under which PT-FI and the government agreed to negotiate an amended COW to address provisions related to the size of PT-FI’s concession area, royalties and taxes, domestic processing and refining, divestment, local content, and continuation of operations post-2021. Execution of the MOU enabled the resumption of concentrate exports, which began in August









2014. The MOU has been extended to July 25, 2015. PT-FI is engaged in active discussions with the Indonesian government regarding an amended COW.



Provisions being addressed in the negotiation of an amended COW include the development of new copper smelting and refining capacity in Indonesia, divestment to the Indonesian government and/or Indonesian nationals of up to a 30 percent interest (an additional 20.64 percent interest) in PT-FI at fair value, and timely granting rights for the continuation of operations from 2022 through 2041. Negotiations are taking into consideration PT-FI’s need for assurance of legal and fiscal terms post-2021 for PT-FI to continue with its large-scale investment program for the development of its underground reserves.



Effective with the signing of the MOU, PT-FI provided a $115 million assurance bond to support its commitment for smelter development, agreed to increase royalties to 4.0 percent for copper and 3.75 percent for gold from the previous rates of 3.5 percent for copper and 1.0 percent for gold, and to pay export duties as set forth in a new regulation. The Indonesian government revised its January 2014 regulations regarding export duties, which are now set at 7.5 percent, declining to 5.0 percent when smelter development progress exceeds 7.5 percent and are eliminated when development progress exceeds 30 percent.



PT-FI is advancing plans for the construction of new smelter capacity in parallel with completing negotiations of its long-term operating rights and will also discuss the possibility of expanding industrial activities in Papua in connection with its long-term development plans. PT-FI has identified a site adjacent to the existing PT Smelting site in Gresik, Indonesia, for the construction of additional smelter capacity. Refer to “Mining Development Projects and Exploration” for further discussion.



Under the MOU, no terms of the COW, other than those relating to the export duties, the smelter bond and royalties described above, will be changed until the completion of an amended COW.



PT-FI is required to apply for renewal of export permits at six-month intervals. In January 2015, PT-FI obtained a renewal of its export license through July 25, 2015.



Grasberg Minerals District.  PT-FI operates in the remote highlands of the Sudirman Mountain Range in the province of Papua, Indonesia, which is on the western half of the island of New Guinea. We and our predecessors have been the only operator of exploration and mining activities in Block A since 1967.



The Grasberg minerals district has three operating mines: the Grasberg open pit, the Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) underground mine and the Big Gossan underground mine. We also have several projects in progress in the Grasberg minerals district related to the development of the large-scale, long-lived, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the Grasberg open pit. In aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to ramp up over several years to process approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the transition from the Grasberg open pit, currently anticipated to occur in late 2017. Refer to MD&A for further discussion.



PT-FI’s production, including our joint venture partner’s share, totaled651 millionpounds of copper and1.13 millionounces of gold in2014,928 millionpounds of copper and1.14 millionounces of gold in2013and695 millionpounds of copper and862 thousandounces of gold in2012.



Our principal source of power for all our Indonesian operations is a coal-fired power plant that we built in 1998. Diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. A combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations. Our Indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches.



Grasberg Open Pit

We began open-pit mining of the Grasberg ore body in 1990, with mining operations expected to continue through the end of 2017. Production in the open pit is currently at the 3,220- to 3,760-meter elevation level and totaled 24 million metric tons of ore in2014, which provided 55 percent of PT-FI's2014mill feed.



The current open-pit equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. The larger mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 150 haul trucks with payloads ranging from 218 to 330 metric tons and









16 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 to 42 cubic meters, which mined an average of 298,000 metric tons of material per day during2014, 381,000 metric tons per day in2013and 399,000 metric tons per day in2012.



Grasberg crushing and conveying systems are integral to the mine and provide the capacity to transport up to 150,000 metric tons per day of Grasberg ore to the mill and 75,000 metric tons per day of overburden to the overburden stockpiles. The remaining overburden is moved by haul trucks. Ore milled from the Grasberg open-pit averaged69,100metric tons of ore per day for the year 2014 and is expected to approximate 125,000 metric tons of ore per day for the year 2015.



DOZ Underground Mine

The DOZ ore body lies vertically below the now depleted Intermediate Ore Zone. We began production from the DOZ ore body in 1989 using open stope mining methods, but suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the Grasberg open pit. Production resumed in September 2000 using the block-cave method and is at the 3,110-meter elevation level. Ore milled from the DOZ mine averaged50,500metric tons of ore per day for the year2014and is expected to ramp up to approximately 70,000 metric tons of ore per day in the second half of 2015. Production at the DOZ mine is expected to continue through 2020.



The DOZ mine fleet consists of over 250 pieces of mobile equipment, which is capable of mining an average of 80,000 metric tons of material per day. The primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 52 LHD units and 20 haul trucks. Each production LHD unit typically carries approximately 11 metric tons of ore. Using ore passes and chutes, the LHD units transfer ore into 55-metric ton capacity haul trucks. The trucks dump into two gyratory crushers and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing.



The success of the development of the DOZ mine, one of the world’s largest underground mines, provides confidence in the future development of PT-FI’s large-scale undeveloped underground ore bodies.



Big Gossan Underground Mine

The Big Gossan mine lies underground and adjacent to the current mill site. It is a tabular, near vertical ore body with approximate dimensions of 1,200 meters along strike and 800 meters down dip with varying thicknesses from 20 meters to 120 meters. The mine utilizes a blasthole stoping method with delayed paste backfill. Stopes of varying sizes are mined and the ore dropped down passes to a truck haulage level. Trucks are chute loaded and transport the ore to a jaw crusher. The crushed ore is then hoisted vertically via a two-skip production shaft to a level where it is loaded onto a conveyor belt. The belt carries the ore to one of the main underground conveyors where the ore is transferred and conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing.



Although development activities continue, production from the Big Gossan underground mine was suspended for the majority of 2014. Ore milled from the Big Gossan underground mine averaged900metric tons of ore per day for the year2014and is expected to ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2018.



The Big Gossan underground mine fleet consists of over 100 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes five LHD units and three haul trucks used in development and production activities.



Description of Ore Bodies.Our Indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the Grasberg monzodiorite and the Ertsberg diorite. The host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the Sudirman Range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. The igneous-hosted ore bodies (the Grasberg open pit and block cave, and portions of the DOZ block cave) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a lesser extent, bornite. The sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies (portions of the DOZ and all of the Big Gossan) occur as “magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn” replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions.



The copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. Moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the district’s ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. These gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite.











The following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported ore bodies.



The following map, which encompasses an area of approximately 42 square kilometers (approximately 16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported Indonesia ore bodies and their locations.











Africa





TFM is organized under the laws of the DRC. We own an effective 56 percent interest in TFM, with the remaining ownership interests held by Lundin Mining Corporation (Lundin) (an effective 24 percent interest) and La Générale des Carrières et des Mines (Gécamines), which is wholly owned by the DRC government (a 20 percent non-dilutable interest).



TFM is entitled to mine in the DRC under an Amended and Restated Mining Convention (ARMC) with the DRC government. The original Mining Convention was entered into in 1996 and was replaced with the ARMC in 2005, which was further amended in 2010 (approved in 2011). The current ARMC will remain in effect for as long as the Tenke concessions are exploitable.



TFM pays a royalty of two percent of net revenues under the ARMC, which totaled$29 millionin both2014and2013and$25 millionin2012.



The Tenke minerals district is located in the Katanga province of the DRC approximately 110 miles northwest of Lubumbashi and is accessible by paved roads and by rail. The deposits are sediment-hosted copper and cobalt deposits with oxide, mixed oxide-sulfide and sulfide mineralization. The dominant oxide minerals are malachite, pseudomalachite and heterogenite. Important sulfide minerals consist of bornite, carrollite, chalcocite and chalcopyrite.



The Tenke minerals district contains an open-pit copper and cobalt mining complex, which commenced initial copper production in March 2009. TFM completed its second phase expansion project in early 2013, which included increasing mine, mill and processing capacity. Construction of a second sulfuric acid plant is underway, with completion expected in 2016. We continue to engage in exploration activities and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective minerals district at Tenke. These analyses are being incorporated in future plans for potential expansions of production capacity. Future expansions are subject to a number of factors, including power availability, economic and market conditions, and the business and investment climate in the DRC.

The current equipment fleet includes one 10-cubic meter mass excavator, three 17-cubic meter mass excavators, four 12-cubic meter front-end loaders, thirteen 7-cubic meter front-end loaders, thirty-two 91-metric ton haul trucks and fifteen 45-metric ton haul trucks.



Copper and cobalt are recovered through an agitation-leach plant. Production from the Tenke minerals district totaled447 millionpounds of copper and29 millionpounds of cobalt in2014,462 millionpounds of copper and28 millionpounds of cobalt in2013and348 millionpounds of copper and26 millionpounds of cobalt in2012.



The Tenke minerals district is located in a tropical region; however, temperatures are moderated by its higher altitudes. Weather in this region is characterized by a dry season and a wet season, each lasting about six months with average rainfall of 47 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is expected to be 1,520 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,110 meters above sea level. The Tenke deposits are covered by six exploitation permits totaling approximately 394,450 acres.



TFM has long-term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with La Société Nationale d’Electricité, the state-owned electric utility company serving the region. The results of a recent water exploration program, as well









as the regional geological and hydro-geological conditions, indicate that adequate water is available during the expected life of the operation.





Smelting Facilities and Other Mining Properties

Atlantic Copper. Our wholly owned Atlantic Copper smelter and refinery is located on land concessions from the Huelva, Spain, port authorities, which are scheduled to expire in 2027.



The design capacity of the smelter is approximately 300,000 metric tons of copper per year and the refinery currently has a capacity of 285,000 metric tons of copper per year. During2014, Atlantic Copper treated 1.1 million metric tons of concentrate and scrap and produced 294,100 metric tons of copper anodes from its smelter and 283,800 metric tons of copper cathodes from its refinery. Following is a summary of Atlantic Copper's concentrate purchases from our copper mining operations and third parties for the last three years:

201420132012North America copper mines21%13%16%South America mining21%32%31%Indonesia mining8%16%10%Third parties50%39%43%100%100%100%



During 2013, Atlantic Copper successfully completed a scheduled 68-day major maintenance turnaround. Atlantic Copper's major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every eight years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. The next short-term maintenance turnaround is scheduled for the second half of 2015.



PT Smelting. PT-FI’s COW required us to construct or cause to be constructed a smelter in Indonesia if we and the Indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically viable. In 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of PT Smelting, an Indonesian company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. PT Smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery. PT-FI owns 25 percent of PT Smelting, with the remainder owned by Mitsubishi Materials Corporation (60.5 percent), Mitsubishi Corporation Unimetals Ltd. (9.5 percent) and JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation (5 percent).



PT-FI’s contract with PT Smelting provides for the supply of 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements (subject to a minimum or maximum rate) necessary for PT Smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually on a priority basis. PT-FI also sells copper concentrate to PT Smelting (at market rates) for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually.



During2014, PT Smelting treated 911,500 metric tons of concentrate and produced 236,900 metric tons of copper anodes from its smelter and 231,800 metric tons of copper cathodes from its refinery.



PT Smelting's maintenance turnarounds (which range from two weeks to a month to complete) typically are expected to occur approximately every two years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. PT Smelting completed a 23-day maintenance turnaround during 2014, and the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2016.



Miami Smelter. We own and operate a smelter at our Miami, Arizona, mining operation. The smelter has been operating for approximately 100 years and has been upgraded numerous times during that period to implement new technologies, to improve production and to comply with air quality requirements. As a result of new air quality standards for sulfur dioxide emissions, the Miami smelter will install pollution control equipment as part of an expansion that will allow the smelter to operate and comply with the new standards by 2018.



The Miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our Arizona copper mines. Concentrate processed through the smelter totaled 603,700 metric tons in2014. In addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrates, the Miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our North America leaching operations.



Major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately three weeks to complete) typically occur approximately every 14 months for the Miami smelter, with shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim.The scheduled









shutdown in fourth-quarter 2014 was extended for several weeks as a result of a furnace fire. Repairs have been completed, and the smelter is operating at normal rates.



Rod & Refining Operations. Our Rod & Refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in North America, including a refinery in El Paso, Texas; rod mills in El Paso, Texas, Norwich, Connecticut, and Miami, Arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in Bayway, New Jersey. We refine our copper anode production from our Miami smelter at our El Paso refinery. The El Paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at Miami. Our El Paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium.



Molybdenum Conversion Facilities. We process molybdenum concentrates at our conversion plants in the U.S. and Europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates and molybdenum disulfide. We operate molybdenum roasters in Sierrita, Arizona; Fort Madison, Iowa; and Rotterdam, the Netherlands, and we operate a molybdenum pressure leach plant in Bagdad, Arizona. We also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in Stowmarket, United Kingdom.



Freeport Cobalt. On March 29, 2013, we, through a newly formed consolidated joint venture, completed the acquisition of a cobalt chemical refinery in Kokkola, Finland, and the related sales and marketing business. The acquisition provides direct end-market access for the cobalt hydroxide production at the Tenke minerals district. The joint venture operates under the name Freeport Cobalt, and we are the operator with an effective 56 percent ownership interest. The remaining effective ownership interest is held by our partners in TFM, including 24 percent by Lundin and 20 percent by Gécamines. The Kokkola refinery has an annual refining capacity of approximately 12,000 metric tons of cobalt, sufficient to refine the majority of the cobalt we produce in the Tenke minerals district.



Other North America Copper Mines. In addition to our operating mines, we have five non-operating copper mines in North America – Ajo, Bisbee, Twin Buttes and Tohono in Arizona, and Cobre in New Mexico – that have been on care-and-maintenance status for several years and would require new or updated environmental studies, new permits, and additional capital investment, which could be significant, to return them to operating status.





Mining Development Projects and Exploration

We have several projects and potential opportunities to expand production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. Our near-term major development projects, which require substantial additional capital investment, include the Cerro Verde expansion and underground development activities in Grasberg. Refer to MD&A for further discussion of these and our other development projects. Considering the long-term nature and large size of our development projects, actual costs and timing could vary from estimates. We continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our mineral reserves.



Capital expenditures for mining operations totaled$4.0 billion(including$2.9 billionfor major projects) in 2014,$3.8 billion(including$2.3 billionfor major projects) in 2013 and$3.5 billion(including$2.2 billionfor major projects) in 2012. Capital expenditures for major projects are primarily associated with the expansion projects at Morenci and Cerro Verde and underground development activities at Grasberg. Capital expenditures for major projects for the year 2012 also included amounts associated with the expansion at Tenke Fungurume. Capital expenditures for major projects at mining operations in the year 2015 are expected to approximate$2.5 billionand are primarily associated with the Cerro Verde expansion and underground development activities at Grasberg.



In connection with the MOU between PT-FI and the Indonesia government, we have agreed to pursue construction of a new smelter in Indonesia subject to reaching agreement on our long-term operating rights. The preliminary scope of the smelting facilities and associated refinery involves smelting and refining capacity of approximately two million metric tons per year of copper concentrate. Site selection and project definition studies are being advanced. Planning for engineering activities is underway as we explore partnership options. We will be reviewing project scope during 2015.









We also have an additional long-term underground mine development project in the Grasberg minerals district for the Kucing Liar ore body, which lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the Grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. We expect to mine the Kucing Liar ore body using the block-cave method; aggregate capital cost estimates for development of the Kucing Liar ore body are projected to approximate $2.4 billion (which are expected to be made between 2019 and 2032). Additionally, our current mine development plans include approximately $5 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once the Grasberg open-pit operations cease (we expect substantially all of these expenditures to be made between 2016 and 2034).



Our exploration activities are generally near our existing mines with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves and resources to support development of additional future production capacity in the large minerals districts where we currently operate. Exploration results continue to indicate opportunities for significant future reserve additions in North and South America and in the Tenke minerals district. The drilling data in North America also indicates the potential for significantly expanded sulfide production. Drilling results and exploration modeling in North America have identified large scale potential sulfide resources in the Morenci and Safford districts, providing a long-term pipeline for future growth in reserves and production capacity in an established minerals district. Exploration spending associated with mining operations totaled$96 millionin 2014, $182 million in 2013 and $251 million in 2012, and is expected to approximate$100 millionfor the year 2015.





Sources and Availability of Energy, Natural Resources and Raw Materials

Our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. Energy represented approximately20 percentof our2014consolidated copper production costs and included purchases of approximately250 milliongallons of diesel fuel;7,600gigawatt hours of electricity at our North America, South America and Africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our Indonesia mining operation);600 thousandmetric tons of coal for our coal power plant in Indonesia; and1million British thermal units (MMBtu) of natural gas at certain of our North America mines. Based on current cost estimates, we estimate energy will approximate16 percentof our consolidated copper production costs for 2015.



Our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Although we believe our mining operations have sufficient water rights, the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. For a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.”



Sulphuric acid is used in the SX/EW process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulphur burners at the Safford and Tenke mines. Sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties.





Community and Human Rights

We have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate and are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. We continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include:



•comprehensive job training programs

•basic education programs

•public health programs, including malaria control and HIV

•agricultural assistance programs

•small and medium enterprise development programs

•cultural promotion and preservation programs

•clean water and sanitation projects

•community infrastructure development

•charitable donations



In December 2000, we endorsed the joint U.S. State Department-British Foreign Office Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security (Voluntary Principles). We participated in developing these Voluntary Principles with other major natural resource companies and international human rights organizations and they are incorporated into our human rights policy and site level projects.











We completed a corporate level human rights impact assessment in 2014, the results of which were used to evaluate our human rights program, including a review of our human rights policy. In February 2015, we updated our human rights policy to, among other things, reflect our commitment to integrating the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into our human rights program. We also participate in a multi-industry human rights working group to gain insight from peer companies and evaluate ways to integrate human rights due diligence into our business practices and to support our human rights program.



We believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and should help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. As part of our ongoing, annual commitment to sustainable community development, we have made significant investments in social programs, including in-kind support and administration, across our global operations. Over the last five years, these investments have averaged $185 million per year. Nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. Refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for further discussion.



South America. Cerro Verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. Following engagements with regional and local governments, civic leaders and development agencies, in 2006, Cerro Verde committed to support the costs for a new potable water treatment plant to serve Arequipa. In addition, an agreement was reached with the Peruvian government for development of a water storage and distribution network, which was financed by the Cerro Verde Civil Association (the Association). The Association manages contributions made by Cerro Verde for projects that focus on education, training, health, cultural preservation and basic infrastructure.



Cerro Verde has also reached agreement with the Regional Government of Arequipa, the National Government, SEDAPAR and other local institutions to allow it to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of Arequipa. Treating this water will improve the regional water quality, enhance agriculture products grown in the area and reduce waterborne illnesses. In addition to these projects, Cerro Verde annually makes significant community development investments in the Arequipa region.



Indonesia. In 1996, PT-FI established the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development (the Partnership Fund), through which PT-FI has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education and economic development of the area. PT-FI has committed through 2016 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operation through the Partnership Fund. Our share of contributions to the Partnership Fund totaled$31 millionin2014,$41 millionin2013and$39 millionin2012.



The Amungme and Kamoro Community Development Organization (Lembaga Pengembangan Masyarakat Amungme dan Kamoroor LPMAK) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the Partnership Fund. LPMAK is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local Amungme and Kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of PT-FI on each board. The Amungme and Kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations. In addition to the Partnership Fund, PT-FI annually makes significant investments in public health, education, community infrastructure and economic development.



Security Matters.Consistent with our COW in Indonesia and our commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. As part of its security program, PT-FI maintains its own internal security department. Both employees and contractors are unarmed and perform functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. The security department receives human rights training annually.



PT-FI’s share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $57 million for2014, $51 million for2013and $52 million for2012.



PT-FI, and all businesses and residents of Indonesia, rely on the Indonesian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. The Grasberg minerals district has been designated by the Indonesian government as one of Indonesia’s vital national assets. This designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our









operations. The Indonesian government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations.



From the outset of PT-FI’s operations, the Indonesian government has looked to PT-FI to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the Indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in Papua. PT-FI’s financial support for the Indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol PT-FI’s roads and secure its operating area. In addition, the provision of such support is consistent with PT-FI’s obligations under the COW, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights.



PT-FI’s share of support costs for the government-provided security was $27 million in2014, $25 million in2013and $22 million in2012. This supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police.



Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for further discussion of security risks in Indonesia.



Africa. TFM has committed to assist the communities living within its concession in the Katanga province of the DRC. Initiatives include an integrated malaria control program, construction, renovation and building of local health facilities, construction and renovation of local schools, installation of over 100 clean water wells in rural villages as well as construction of urban water distribution systems, and economic development programs supporting development and training of local entrepreneurs, contractors and farmers. We have also made significant investments in infrastructure in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including upgrading a portion of a national road and the regional power generation and transmission systems.



Through the ARMC, TFM has also committed to contribute 0.3 percent of its net sales revenue to a community development fund to assist the local communities with development of local infrastructure and related services including health, education and agriculture. The TFM Social Community Fund is managed by a board of directors comprised of two local community representatives, one representative nominated by the provincial governor and four TFM representatives. A community stakeholder forum comprised of 40 community representatives provides for increased community participation and input regarding project priorities, community needs, and transparency of fund management. The TFM Social Community Fund contributions totaled$4 millionin each of the years2014,2013and2012.



Security Matters. TFM maintains an unarmed internal security department composed of both employees and contractors. The national government also has assigned Mines Police to the TFM concession area. The Mines Police are a division of the Congolese National Police and are responsible for maintaining security in mining concessions throughout the DRC. TFM provides food, housing, medical services, supervised transportation, non-lethal equipment and monetary allowances as well as direct payments to the government for the provision of the security assigned to the concession area. The total cost to TFM for this support, including in-kind support, totaled $2 million in 2014 and less than $1 million in both2013and2012.



TFM also participates in monthly security coordination meetings with host country security personnel, other mining companies, non-governmental organizations, and representatives from the United Nations to discuss security issues and concerns. As an outcome of the coordination meetings, TFM has partnered with MONUSCO (United Nations Stabilization Mission in the DRC) to conduct human rights training in the TFM concession for host government security personnel, local representatives and TFM security employees.













Mining Production Data

Years Ended December 31,(FCX’s net interest in %)20142013201220112010COPPER(millions of recoverable pounds)North AmericaMorenci (85%)a691564537522437Bagdad (100%)237216197194203Safford (100%)139146175151143Sierrita (100%)195171157177147Miami (100%)5761666618Chino (100%)2501711446934Tyrone (100%)9496837682Other (100%)76433Total North America1,6701,4311,3631,2581,067South AmericaCerro Verde (53.56%)500558595647668El Abra (51%)367343338274320Candelaria/Ojos del Salado (80%)b284422324385366Total South America1,1511,3231,2571,3061,354IndonesiaGrasberg (90.64%)c6369156958461,222AfricaTenke Fungurume (56%)d447462348281265Consolidated3,9044,1313,6633,6913,908Less noncontrolling interests725801723710766Net3,1793,3302,9402,9813,142GOLD(thousands of recoverable ounces)North America (100%)a12713107South America (80%)b721018310193Indonesia (90.64%)c1,1301,1428621,2721,786Consolidated1,2141,2509581,3831,886Less noncontrolling interests12012798139186Net1,0941,1238601,2441,700MOLYBDENUM(millions of recoverable pounds)Henderson (100%)3030343840Climax (100%)e21197——North America copper mines (100%)a3332363525Cerro Verde (53.56%)11138107Consolidated9594858372Less noncontrolling interest56453Net9088817869COBALT(millions of contained pounds)Consolidated - Tenke Fungurume (56%)d2928262520Less noncontrolling interests131211118Net1616151412

a.Amounts are net of Morenci’s 15 percent joint venture partner interest.

b.On November 3, 2014, FCX completed the sale of its 80 percent interests in the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines.

c.Amounts are net of joint venture partner interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement (refer to Note 3). Under the joint venture arrangements, PT-FI's share of copper production totaled98 percentin2014,99 percentin2013,100 percentin2012, 96 percent in 2011 and 92 percent in 2010.

d.Effective March 26, 2012, FCX's effective ownership interest in TFM was prospectively reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent.

e.The Climax molybdenum mine began commercial operations in May 2012.











Mining Sales Data





Years Ended December 31,

(FCX’s net interest in %)20142013201220112010

COPPER(millions of recoverable pounds)

North America

Morenci (85%)a680561532521434

Bagdad (100%)240212196201206

Safford (100%)142151175147155

Sierrita (100%)196170162175152

Miami (100%)6060685917

Chino (100%)2431681326235

Tyrone (100%)9694827983

Other (100%)76433

Total North America1,6641,4221,3511,2471,085

South America

Cerro Verde (53.56%)501560589657654

El Abra (51%)366341338276315

Candelaria/Ojos del Salado (80%)b268424318389366

Total South America1,1351,3251,2451,3221,335

Indonesia

Grasberg (90.64%)c6648857168461,214

Africa

Tenke Fungurume (56%)d425454336283262

Consolidated sales from mines3,8884,0863,6483,6983,896

Less noncontrolling interests715795717717756

Net3,1733,2912,9312,9813,140

Consolidated sales from mines3,8884,0863,6483,6983,896

Purchased copper125223125223182

Total copper sales, including purchases4,0134,3093,7733,9214,078

Average realized price per pound$3.09$3.30$3.60$3.86$3.59



GOLD(thousands of recoverable ounces)

North America (100%)a1361375

South America (80%)b671028210193

Indonesia (90.64%)c1,1681,0969151,2701,765

Consolidated sales from mines1,2481,2041,0101,3781,863

Less noncontrolling interests123123102139184

Net1,1251,0819081,2391,679

Average realized price per ounce$1,231$1,315$1,665$1,583$1,271



MOLYBDENUM(millions of recoverable pounds)

Consolidated sales from mines9593837967

Less noncontrolling interests55443

Net9088797564

Average realized price per pound$12.74$11.85$14.26$16.98$16.47



COBALT(millions of contained pounds)

Consolidated-Tenke Fungurume (56%)d3025252520

Less noncontrolling interests131111108

Net1714141512

Average realized price per pound$9.66$8.02$7.83$9.99$10.95



a.Amounts are net of Morenci’s joint venture partner’s 15 percent interest.

b.On November 3, 2014, FCX completed the sale of its 80 percent interests in the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines.

c.Amounts are net of joint venture partner interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement (refer to Note 3). Under the joint venture arrangements, PT-FI's share of copper sales totaled98 percentin2014,99 percentin2013,100 percentin2012, 96 percent in 2011 and 92 percent in 2010.

d.Effective March 26, 2012, FCX's effective ownership interest in TFM was prospectively reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent.













Mineral Reserves

Recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves from our mining operations summarized below and detailed on the following pages have been calculated as of

December 31, 2014

, in accordance with Industry Guide 7 as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Proven and probable reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance of other countries. Proven and probable mineral reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. The term “reserve,” as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term “proven reserves” means mineral reserves for which (i) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (ii) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (iii) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. The term “probable reserves” means mineral reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves, but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.



Our mineral reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. We conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. We revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. Our estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees; a majority of these estimates are reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination.



Estimated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves atDecember 31, 2014, were determined using long-term average prices of$2.00per pound for copper (consistent with the long-term average copper price used since December 31, 2010),$1,000per ounce for gold and$10per pound for molybdenum. For the three-year period endedDecember 31, 2014, LME spot copper prices averaged$3.35per pound, London PM gold prices averaged$1,449per ounce, and the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted byMetals Weekaveraged$11.50per pound.



The recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. Recoverable reserves are the part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.

Recoverable Proven and Probable Mineral ReservesEstimated at December 31, 2014Coppera(billion pounds)Gold(million ounces)Molybdenum(billion pounds)Silverb(million ounces)Cobaltb(billion pounds)North America35.60.32.4286.2—South America31.8—0.6986.6—Indonesia29.028.2—110.1—Africa7.1———0.85Consolidated basisc103.528.53.11282.90.85Net equity interestd82.825.92.79232.40.47

a.Consolidated recoverable copper reserves include3.6 billionpounds in leach stockpiles and0.9 billionpounds in mill stockpiles (refer to “Mill and Leach Stockpiles” for further discussion).

b.Determined using long-term average prices of$15per ounce for silver and$10per pound for cobalt.

c.Consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia.

d.Net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership.











Recoverable Proven and Probable Mineral ReservesEstimated at December 31, 2014Proven ReservesProbable ReservesAverage Ore GradeAverage Ore GradeProcessingMillionCopperGoldMolySilverCobaltMillionCopperGoldMolySilverCobaltMethodmetric tons%g/t%g/t%metric tons%g/t%g/t%North AmericaMorenciMill6350.44—0.02——1300.45—0.02——Crushed leach3790.49————1020.46————ROM leach1,9760.18————7010.17————BagdadMill1,0070.34—a0.021.63—1520.32—a0.021.54—ROM leach1290.21————460.19————SaffordCrushed leach810.46————410.47————SierritaMill2,2520.24—a0.031.42—2120.20—a0.021.20—MiamiROM leach20.59————10.57————ChinoMill970.530.040.010.46—630.490.030.010.42—ROM leach1120.26————290.20————TyroneROM leach570.33————20.21————HendersonMill74——0.18——16——0.14——ClimaxMill162——0.17——23——0.10——CobrebMill120.61————10.53————ROM leach570.32————10.31————7,0321,520South AmericaCerro VerdeMill8810.39—0.021.62—2,9040.37—0.011.52—Crushed leach360.52————640.45————ROM leach100.26————580.24————El AbraCrushed leach2870.51————770.49————ROM leach610.24————190.22————1,2753,122IndonesiaGrasberg open pitMill771.101.37—2.83—1020.860.82—2.10—Deep Ore ZoneMill470.560.68—2.27—990.530.69—2.20—Big GossanMill172.391.02—15.15—372.200.98—13.22—Grasberg Block CavebMill4471.190.96—3.75—5650.850.61—3.28—Kucing LiarbMill1521.311.11—7.45—2541.211.04—6.21—Deep Mill Level ZonebMill650.920.74—4.60—4070.860.71—4.33—8051,464AfricaTenke FungurumeAgitation leach473.56———0.43513.01———0.34Total FCX - 100% Basis9,1596,157

a.Grade not shown because of rounding.

b.Undeveloped reserves that would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production.



The reserve table above and the tables on the following pages utilize the abbreviations described below:



•g/t – grams per metric ton

•Moly – Molybdenum

•ROM – Run of Mine











Recoverable Proven and Probable Mineral ReservesEstimated at December 31, 2014(continued)Proven andProbableAverage Ore GradeRecoveriesaProcessingMillionCopperGoldMolySilverCobaltCopperGoldMolySilverCobaltMethodmetric tons%g/t%g/t%%%%%%North AmericaMorenciMill7650.44—0.02——79.7—50.7——Crushed leach4810.49————75.7————ROM leach2,6770.18————42.7————BagdadMill1,1590.34—b0.021.62—85.959.170.849.3—ROM leach1750.21————23.0————SaffordCrushed leach1220.47————63.9————SierritaMill2,4640.23—b0.021.40—83.959.175.949.3—MiamiROM leach30.58————53.6————ChinoMill1600.510.030.010.45—79.477.942.778.5—ROM leach1410.24————42.9————TyroneROM leach590.32————58.7————HendersonMill90——0.17————84.4——ClimaxMill185——0.16————88.8——CobrecMill130.61————79.9————ROM leach580.32————49.6————8,552South AmericaCerro VerdeMill3,7850.37—0.021.54—86.2—54.344.7—Crushed leach1000.47————79.9————ROM leach680.24————53.1————El AbraCrushed leach3640.51————57.6————ROM leach800.23————43.4————4,397IndonesiaGrasberg open pitMill1790.961.06—2.41—84.181.1—43.5—Deep Ore ZoneMill1460.540.69—2.22—86.477.2—65.8—Big GossanMill542.260.99—13.82—91.565.6—63.7—Grasberg Block CavecMill1,0121.000.77—3.49—84.365.0—57.1—Kucing LiarcMill4061.251.07—6.67—85.045.1—38.8—Deep Mill Level ZonecMill4720.870.71—4.36—86.879.3—64.9—2,269AfricaTenke FungurumeAgitation leach983.27———0.3886.4———75.9Total FCX - 100% Basis15,316

a.Recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses.

b.Grade not shown because of rounding.

c.Undeveloped reserves that would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production.















Recoverable Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves

Estimated at December 31, 2014

(continued)

Recoverable Reserves

CopperGoldMolySilverCobalt

FCX’sProcessingbillionmillionbillionmillionbillion

InterestMethodlbs.ozs.lbs.ozs.lbs.

North America

Morenci85%Mill6.0—0.17——

Crushed leach3.9————

ROM leach4.5————

Bagdad100%Mill7.50.10.3829.8—

ROM leach0.2————

Safford100%Crushed leach0.8————

Sierrita100%Mill10.60.11.0154.6—

Miami100%ROM leach—a————

Chino100%Mill1.40.10.011.8—

ROM leach0.3————

Tyrone100%ROM leach0.2————

Henderson100%Mill——0.28——

Climax100%Mill——0.58——

Cobre100%Mill0.1————

ROM leach0.2————

35.70.32.4386.2—

Recoverable metal in stockpilesb2.1—0.01——

100% operations37.80.32.4486.2—

Consolidatedc35.60.32.4286.2—

Net equity interestd35.60.32.4286.2—

South America

Cerro Verde53.56%Mill26.8—0.6683.9—

Crushed leach0.8————

ROM leach0.2————

El Abra51%Crushed leach2.3————

ROM leach0.2————

30.3—0.6683.9—

Recoverable metal in stockpilesb1.5—0.032.7—

100% operations31.8—0.6986.6—

Consolidatedc31.8—0.6986.6—

Net equity interestd16.9—0.3746.4—

Indonesia

Grasberg open piteMill3.24.9—6.1—

Deep Ore ZoneeMill1.52.5—6.8—

Big GossaneMill2.41.1—15.3—

Grasberg Block CaveeMill18.916.3—64.7—

Kucing LiareMill9.56.3—33.8—

Deep Mill Level ZoneeMill7.98.6—43.0—

100% operations43.439.7—169.7—

Consolidatedc29.028.2—110.1—

Net equity interestd26.325.6—99.8—

Africa

Tenke Fungurume56%Agitation leach6.1———0.62

Recoverable metal in stockpilesb1.0———0.23

100% operations7.1———0.85

Consolidatedc7.1———0.85

Net equity interestd4.0———0.47



Total FCX –  100% basis120.140.03.13342.50.85

Total FCX –  Consolidated basisc103.528.53.11282.90.85

Total FCX –  Net equity interestd82.825.92.79232.40.47

a.Amounts not shown because of rounding.

b.Refer to "Mill and Leach Stockpiles" for additional information.

c.Consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia.

d.Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership.

e.Our joint venture agreement with Rio Tinto provides that PT-FI will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021, calculated by reference to its proven and probable reserves as of December 31, 1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash flow.











In defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a “variable cutoff grade” strategy. The objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. We use a "break-even cutoff grade" to define the in-situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. The break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production.



Our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. We value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. Copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. The calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. Our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade.



The table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as ofDecember 31, 2014:

Copper Equivalent Cutoff Grade (Percent)MolybdenumCutoff Grade(Percent)MillCrushed orAgitation LeachROMLeachMillNorth AmericaMorenci0.250.190.03—Bagdad0.18—0.08—Safford—0.13——Sierrita0.18———Miami——0.05—Chino0.20—0.08—Tyrone——0.07—Henderson———0.12Climax———0.05Cobre0.50—0.10—South AmericaCerro Verde0.170.190.14—El Abra—0.110.08—IndonesiaGrasberg open pit0.25———Deep Ore Zone0.83———Big Gossan1.88———Grasberg Block Cave0.74———Kucing Liar0.86———Deep Mill Level Zone0.75———AfricaTenke Fungurume—1.31——











Drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. Drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. Drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit.



The following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type:

Average Drill Hole Spacing (in Meters)ProvenProbableMining UnitMillLeachMillLeachNorth AmericaMorenciOpen Pit8686122122BagdadOpen Pit8686122122SaffordOpen Pit—86—122SierritaOpen Pit73—104—MiamiOpen Pit—61—91ChinoOpen Pit438686122TyroneOpen Pit—86—86HendersonBlock Cave38—85—ClimaxOpen Pit61—91—CobreOpen Pit61619191South AmericaCerro VerdeOpen Pit5050100100El AbraOpen Pit—75—120IndonesiaGrasbergOpen Pit35—82—Deep Ore ZoneBlock Cave29—57—Big GossanOpen Stope12—36—GrasbergBlock Cave34—80—Kucing LiarBlock Cave39—99—Deep Mill Level ZoneBlock Cave16—61—AfricaTenke FungurumeOpen Pit—50—100













Production Sequencing

The following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing our proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body and from related stockpiles. The chart also shows the term of PT-FI's COW. Production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. The ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. In addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. Significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected below.



Mill and Leach Stockpiles

Mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from an ore body and are available for copper recovery. Mill stockpiles contain sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. Leach stockpiles contain oxide ores and certain secondary sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities.



Because it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. The quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles.



Expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. The recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately.











Expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production-scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. Total copper recovery in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including processing methodology, processing variables, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. For newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 80 percent of total copper recovery may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years.



Processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes.



Following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as ofDecember 31, 2014:RecoverableMillionAverageRecoveryCopperMetric TonsOre Grade (%)Rate (%)(billion pounds)Mill stockpilesCerro Verde1310.3781.40.9Leach stockpilesMorenci5,7300.242.40.7Bagdad4980.252.00.1Safford1870.4115.20.3Sierrita6500.1511.40.2Miami4940.393.20.1Chino1,6650.265.20.5Tyrone1,1070.282.70.2Cerro Verde4790.513.40.2El Abra5920.437.70.4Tenke Fungurume391.2691.21.011,4413.7Total FCX - 100% basis4.6Total FCX - Consolidated basisa4.5Total FCX - Net equity interestb3.3

a.Consolidated represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for our joint venture partner’s interest in the Morenci mine in North America.

b.Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership.





Mineralized Material

We hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. However, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. Mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. Such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. Estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of$2.20per pound for copper,$1,000per ounce for gold and$12per pound for molybdenum.











Mineralized MaterialEstimated at December 31, 2014Milling MaterialLeaching MaterialTotal Mineralized MaterialMillionMillionMillionFCX’smetricCopperGoldMolySIlvermetricCoppermetricInteresttons%g/t%g/ttons%tonsNorth AmericaMorenci85%1,0420.27—0.02—1,0850.212,127Bagdad100%6520.27—a0.021.360.17658Safford100%2720.610.11—2.3470.29319Sierrita100%1,5350.18—a0.021.1——1,535Chino100%1630.430.030.010.4300.28193Tyrone100%—————310.3331Henderson100%226——0.12———226Climax100%460——0.15———460Cobre100%310.500.07—1.250.3336Ajo100%4340.400.060.010.8——434Cochise/Bisbee100%—————2540.46254Lone Star100%—————6560.44656Sanchez100%—————1800.29180Tohono100%1520.69———1650.68317Twin Buttes100%730.62—0.046.4440.23117Christmas100%2450.390.05—a1.0——245South AmericaCerro Verde53.56%2720.34—0.011.450.40277El Abra51%1,7650.460.020.011.51870.301,952IndonesiaGrasberg minerals district54.38%b2,4890.670.60—3.6——2,489AfricaTenke Fungurumec56%494.05———212.9970Kisanfuc95%492.48———473.1696Total FCX - 100% basis9,9092,76312,672Total FCX - Consolidated basisd8,7562,60011,356Total FCX - Net equity intereste7,6022,49410,096

a.Amounts not shown because of rounding.

b.FCX's interest in the Grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest ownership.

c.Stated tonnage also includes cobalt at Tenke Fungurume (0.33 percent) and Kisanfu (1.15 percent).

d.Consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for our joint venture partners' interest in the Morenci mine and the Grasberg minerals district.

e.Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership.











OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS



As further discussed in Note 2, during second-quarter 2013, we acquired oil and gas operations by completing the acquisitions of Plains Exploration & Production Company (PXP) and McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR), collectively FM O&G. The portfolio of assets includes significant oil production facilities and growth potential in the Deepwater GOM, established oil production onshore and offshore California, large onshore natural gas resources in the Haynesville shale play in Louisiana, natural gas production from the Madden area in central Wyoming, and an industry-leading position in the emerging Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous natural gas trend located in the shallow waters of the GOM and onshore in South Louisiana. Approximately 90 percent of our oil and gas revenues are from oil and NGLs.



In June 2014, FM O&G completed the sale of its Eagle Ford shale assets. During 2014, FM O&G also acquired additional interests in the Deepwater GOM, including interests in the Lucius and Heidelberg oil fields and several exploration leases in June 2014, and an interest in the Vito oil discovery in the Mississippi Canyon area and a significant lease position in the Vito basin in September 2014. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion of these transactions.



Acreage

AtDecember 31, 2014, we owned interests in oil and gas leases covering5.0million gross acres (2.9million acres net to our interest). The following table summarizes, by geographic area, the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage in which we held interests atDecember 31, 2014:

DevelopedUndevelopedGross AcresNet AcresGross AcresNet AcresU.S.:Louisiana:Onshore403,86081,034207,870160,487Offshore363,162210,3421,058,752673,251Texas:Onshore21,5264,3583,760745Offshore46,08026,850——California:Onshore60,89860,40663,75539,970Offshore43,33539,062——Wyoming80,69213,68865,52751,965Nevada——246,073246,073Other states2,984449217,610165,8461,022,537436,1891,863,3471,338,337Morocco——2,154,0141,120,0871,022,537436,1894,017,3612,458,424



Approximately35 percentof our total U.S. net undeveloped acres are covered by leases that expire from 2015 to 2017. As a result of the decrease in crude oil prices, our current plans anticipate that the majority of expiring acreage will not be retained by drilling operations or other means.



The exploration permits covering our Morocco acreage expire in 2016; however, we have the ability to extend the exploration permits through 2019.



Oil and Gas Properties

Our oil and gas properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, including other mineral encumbrances and restrictions. We do not believe that any of these burdens materially interfere with our use of the properties in the operation of our business.



We believe that we have satisfactory title to or rights in all of our producing properties. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, we make minimal investigation of title at the time we acquire undeveloped properties. We make title investigations and receive title opinions of local counsel only before we commence drilling operations. We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our other assets. Although title to our properties is subject to encumbrances in certain cases, we believe that none of these burdens will materially detract from the value of our properties or from our interest therein or will materially interfere with our use in the operation of our business.













Following are descriptions of our primary U.S. oil and gas properties:



Gulf of Mexico.

Deepwater GOM.Our Deepwater GOM portfolio includes a 100 percent working interest in the Holstein, Horn Mountain, Marlin, Dorado and King fields, a 31 percent working interest in the Ram Powell field, a 33.3 percent working interest in the Hoover field, a 12.5 percent working interest in the Heidelberg field, and an 18.67 percent interest in the Vito field. Additionally, our subsidiary Plains Offshore Operations Inc. (Plains Offshore), holds a 20 percent working interest in the Lucius development and a 50 percent working interest in the Phobos discovery. FM O&G's combined ownership in the Lucius development, including the 20 percent held by Plains Offshore, is 25.1 percent. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion of Plains Offshore.



Following is a summary of our Deepwater GOM platforms at December 31, 2014:

Capacity per DayPlatformField LocationType of PlatformProduction CommencedWater Depth (feet)Oil (MBbls)Gas (MMcf)HolsteinaGreen Canyon Blocks 644, 645 and 688Truss Spar20044,300113142Horn MountainaMississippi Canyon       Blocks 126 and 127Truss Spar20025,4007572Marlin HubaSeveralbTension Leg20003,20060235Ram PowellViosca Knoll Blocks 911 to 913 and 955 to 957Tension Leg19973,20070310HooverSeveralcDeep Draft Caisson Vessel20004,800100325LuciusKeathley Canyon Blocks 874,875,918 and 919Truss Spar20157,20080450

a.  We are the operator of the Holstein, Horn Mountain and Marlin Hub platforms.

b.  The Marlin Hub is the production facility for three fields: the Marlin field (S/2 Viosca Knoll Block 871 and N/2 Viosca Knoll Block 915), the Dorado field (S/2 Viosca Knoll Block 915) and the King field (Mississippi Canyon Blocks 84, 85, 128 and 129). The Marlin field currently produces via a combination of platform and subsea tie-back wells while the Dorado and King fields currently produce exclusively via subsea wells and tie-back infrastructure.

c.The Hoover platform is located in Alaminos Canyon Block 25. The Hoover field is located in Alaminos Canyon Blocks 25 and 26.



As further described in Note 2, during 2014, FM O&G completed the acquisition of Deepwater GOM interests, including interests in the Heidelberg oil field and several exploration leases, and in the Vito oil discovery and a significant lease position in the Vito area. We have a 12.5 percent interest in Heidelberg, a large, high-quality oil development project located in 5,300 feet of water in the Green Canyon area. The Heidelberg truss spar was designed as a Lucius-look-alike facility with capacity of 80 MBbls of oil per day. Development drilling is in progress and the project remains on track for first production in 2016. We have an 18.67 percent interest in Vito, a large, deep subsalt Miocene oil discovery made in 2009, located in 4,000 feet of water in the Mississippi Canyon area (Blocks 940, 941, 984 and 985). Exploration and appraisal drilling in recent years confirmed a significant resource in high-quality, subsalt Miocene sands. Development options are under evaluation.



Our Deepwater GOM exploration portfolio includes interests in 169 blocks containing 70 prospects in the Pliocene, Miocene and Lower Tertiary reservoirs.



GOM Shelf.Our GOM Shelf properties are primarily located on the outer continental shelf in the shallow waters (less than 500 feet of water) of the GOM and onshore in the Gulf Coast area of Louisiana, with drilling depths not exceeding 15,000 feet considered to be traditional shelf prospects.













Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous.Prospects with drilling depths below the salt weld (generally at depths exceeding 25,000 feet) are considered Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous prospects.



California.

Onshore California.We hold a 100 percent working interest in the majority of our Los Angeles Basin properties in the Inglewood, Las Cienegas, Montebello, Packard and San Vicente fields, and a 100 percent working interest in the majority of our San Joaquin Basin properties in the Cymric, Midway Sunset and South Belridge fields. The Los Angeles Basin properties are characterized by light crude oil (21 to 32 degree American Petroleum Institute (API) gravity), have well depths ranging from 2,000 feet to over 10,000 feet and include both primary production and mature wells using waterflood recovery methods (whereby water is injected into the reservoir formation to displace residual oil), where producing wells have a high ratio of water produced compared to total liquids produced (high water cuts). The San Joaquin Basin properties are long-lived fields that have heavier oil (12 to 16 degree API gravity) and shallow wells (generally less than 2,000 feet) that require enhanced oil recovery techniques, including steam injection, and produce with high water cuts.



We also hold a 100 percent working interest in the Arroyo Grande Field located in San Luis Obispo County, which is a long-lived field that has heavier oil (12 to 16 degree API gravity) and well depths averaging 1,700 feet requiring continuous steam injection.



Offshore California.All of our offshore California properties are located in federal waters approximately five to seven miles offshore in the Santa Maria Basin. We hold a 69.3 percent working interest in the Point Arguello Unit, composed of the Hidalgo, Hermosa and Harvest platforms, and the various partnerships owning the related transportation, processing and marketing infrastructure. We also hold a 100 percent working interest in the Point Pedernales field, which includes the Irene platform, that is utilized to access the Federal Outer Continental Shelf Monterey Reservoir by extended reach directional wells and support facilities which lie within the onshore Lompoc field.



Haynesville. The Haynesville shale play is characterized by gas production from the Jurassic aged Haynesville shale formation in Louisiana, and typical well depth is 10,500 feet. The area has historically been developed with approximately 4,000 foot horizontal wells at a measured total depth of 16,000 feet.



Madden. We own an approximate 14 percent working interest in the Madden Deep Unit and Lost Cabin Gas Plant located in central Wyoming. The Madden Deep Unit is a federal unit operated by a third party and consists of acreage in the Wind River Basin. The Madden area is characterized by gas production from multiple stratigraphic horizons of the Lower Fort Union, Lance, Mesaverde and Cody sands and the Madison Dolomite. Production from the Madden Deep Unit is typically found at depths ranging from 5,500 to 25,000 feet.





Exploration and Development Activities

Our oil and gas business has significant proved, probable and possible reserves, a broad range of development opportunities and high-potential exploration prospects. The business is managed to reinvest its cash flows in projects with attractive rates of returns and risk profiles. Following the recent sharp decline in oil prices, we have taken steps to significantly reduce capital spending plans and near-term oil and gas growth initiatives in order to preserve cash flows and its resources for anticipated improved market conditions in the future. We are also evaluating third-party participation in our oil and gas projects to provide additional funding.



FM O&G has a large strategic position in the Deepwater GOM with significant current oil production, strong cash margins and existing infrastructure and facilities with excess capacity. These assets, combined with FM O&G’s large leasehold interests in an established geologic basin, provide financially attractive investment opportunities for high-impact growth in oil production and cash margins. FM O&G’s capital allocation strategy is principally focused on drilling and development opportunities that can be tied back to existing facilities.



Capital expenditures for oil and gas operations totaled$3.2 billionin 2014 and$1.45 billionfor the seven month period ending December 31, 2013. Capital expenditures for oil and gas operations for the year 2015 are currently estimated to total$2.3 billion, with approximately 80 percent of the 2015 capital budget expected to be directed to its highest return focus areas in the GOM. We are committed to achieving our objective of funding oil and gas capital expenditures with oil and gas cash flows, third-party joint venture transactions or asset sales. FM O&G is engaged in discussions to obtain funding from industry partners and other oil and gas market participants for a substantial portion of its 2015 capital expenditures to achieve this objective. Third-party funding could also enable FM O&G to complete additional development wells for production.











Refer to MD&A for further discussion of current exploration and development activities at our oil and gas operations.





Production and Sales Data

The following table presents summary production data, average realized prices and average production costs for our oil and gas operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 and the seven-month period ending December 31, 2013:

Year Ended December 31, 2014GOMaCaliforniaHaynesville/Madden/OtherEagle FordbTotalcOil Sales(MBbls)19,68113,7322226,48140,116Natural Gas Sales(MMcf)Production28,7003,55842,3647,41082,032Less: fuel used in our operations—1,190——1,190Sales28,7002,36842,3647,41080,842NGL Sales(MBbls)2,027171359783,211MBOEProduction26,49114,4967,3188,69456,999Sales26,49114,2987,3188,69456,801Average Realizations, excluding derivativesOil (per barrel)$92.76Natural gas (per MMBtu)$4.37NGLs (per barrel)$39.73Average Cost per BOEProduction costsd$18.00Production and ad valorem taxes2.08Cash production costse$20.08

Seven-Month Period Ending December 31, 2013GOMaCaliforniaHaynesville/Madden/OtherEagle FordTotalcOil Sales(MBbls)11,3647,977837,20626,630Natural Gas Sales(MMcf)Production17,2312,09826,7828,84454,955Less: fuel used in our operations—780——780Sales17,2311,31826,7828,84454,175NGL Sales(MBbls)1,04997271,2442,417MBOEProduction15,2868,4234,5749,92438,207Sales15,2868,2934,5749,92438,077Average Realizations, excluding derivativesOil (per barrel)$99.67Natural gas (per MMBtu)$3.73NGLs (per barrel)$38.20Average Cost per BOEProduction costsd$15.18Production and ad valorem taxes1.96Cash production costse$17.14

a.Includes properties in the Deepwater GOM and on the Shelf.

b.Includes the results of Eagle Ford through June 19, 2014.

c.At December 31, 2014 and 2013, no individual fields represented 15 percent or more of our proved oil and gas reserves.

d.Reflects costs incurred to operate and maintain wells and related equipment and facilities.









e.Refer to MD&A for further discussion of cash production costs per BOE and for a reconciliation to production and delivery costs reported in our consolidated financial statements.





Oil and Natural Gas Reserves

Our reserve volumes have been determined in accordance with the current regulations and guidelines established by the SEC, which require the use of an average price, calculated as the twelve-month average of the first-day-of-the-month historical reference price as adjusted for location and quality differentials, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions and the impact of derivatives. Reference prices for reserve determination are the WTI spot price for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price for natural gas. AtDecember 31, 2014, our estimates were based on reference prices of$94.99per barrel and$4.35per MMBtu. All of our oil and natural gas reserves are located in the U.S.



Proved Reserves.

All of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves at

December 31, 2014

, are based upon reserve reports prepared by the independent petroleum engineering firms of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (NSAI) and Ryder Scott Company, L.P. (Ryder Scott). The scope and results of procedures employed by NSAI and Ryder Scott are summarized in letters that are filed as exhibits to this annual report on Form 10-K. For purposes of reserve estimation, we and our independent petroleum engineers used technical and economic data including well logs, geologic maps, seismic data, well test data, production data, historical price and cost information, and property ownership interests. Our reserves have been estimated using deterministic methods. Standard engineering and geoscience methods were used, or a combination of methods, including performance analysis, volumetric analysis and analogy, which we and our independent petroleum engineers considered to be appropriate and necessary to categorize and estimate reserves in accordance with SEC definitions and regulations. A substantial portion of these reserves are for undeveloped locations; such reserves are based on estimates of reserve volumes and recovery efficiencies along with analogy to properties with similar geologic and reservoir characteristics. Because these estimates depend on many assumptions, any or all of which may differ substantially from actual results, reserve estimates may differ from the quantities of oil and natural gas that we ultimately recover.



Proved reserves represent quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. The term “reasonable certainty” implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and natural gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. AtDecember 31, 2014, our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves totaled390MMBOE, of which74 percentwas comprised of oil (including NGLs).

Proved Oil and Natural Gas ReservesEstimated at December 31, 2014OilaNatural GasTotal(MMBbls)(Bcf)(MMBOE)Proved Developed:GOM6911889California11422118Haynesville/Madden/Other122939184369246Proved Undeveloped:GOM695779California35335Haynesville/Madden/Other—18130104241144Total Proved Reserves288610390

a.  Includes10MMBbls of NGL proved reserves, consisting of7MMBbls of proved developed and3MMBbls of proved undeveloped.



AtDecember 31, 2014, we have an estimated total proved reserve life of 8.1 years and a proved developed reserve life of 5.1 years.



AtDecember 31, 2014, proved undeveloped reserves represented37 percentof our total proved reserves. With the exception of one planned sidetrack development well in one of our Deepwater GOM properties that cannot be executed until the current producing well depletes, 96 percent of our proved undeveloped reserves are scheduled









for development within five years, and $3.2 billion (or 95 percent) of our estimated future proved undeveloped capital is associated with the development of those reserves.



Total estimated proved undeveloped reserves of 144 MMBOE at December 31, 2014, decreased by 13 MMBOE from estimated proved undeveloped reserves of 157 MMBOE at December 31, 2013. During the year 2014, we invested $657 million and converted 25 MMBOE from proved undeveloped reserves to proved developed reserves. In addition, during the year 2014, we sold proved undeveloped reserves totaling 15 MMBOE associated with the Eagle Ford properties. Partly offsetting the decreases in proved undeveloped reserves during the year 2014, were additions of 16 MMBOE from the acquisition of interests in the Deepwater GOM (including interests in the Lucius and Heidelberg oil fields) and 9 MMBOE through extensions and discoveries primarily associated with continued successful development in the Deepwater GOM at Horn Mountain. We also had net upward revisions to proved undeveloped reserves totaling 2 MMBOE primarily related to the improved gas price realizations in the Haynesville shale play, which was mostly offset by downward revisions resulting from deferred development plans, as well as lower oil price realizations and higher steam-related operating expenses resulting from higher natural gas prices for certain onshore California properties.



During the year endedDecember 31, 2014, we participated in50gross exploratory wells, of which 46 were successful, and261gross development wells, of which 259 were successful (refer to "Drilling Activities"). During this period, proved reserve additions from extensions and discoveries totaled16MMBOE.



The following table reflects the present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes from the production and sale of our estimated proved reserves reconciled to the standardized measure of discounted net cash flows (standardized measure) atDecember 31, 2014(in millions):

Estimated undiscounted future net cash flows before income taxes$12,065Present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes (PV-10)a,b$8,142Discounted future income taxes(1,721)Standardized measure (refer to Note 21)$6,421

a.  In accordance with SEC guidelines, estimates of future net cash flows from our proved reserves and the present value thereof are made using the twelve-month average of the first-day-of-the-month historical reference prices as adjusted for location and quality differentials. Reference prices as ofDecember 31, 2014, were$94.99per barrel of oil and$4.35per MMBtu of natural gas. These prices are held constant throughout the life of the oil and gas properties, except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations. In accordance with the guidelines and excluding the impact of derivative instruments, the average realized prices used in our reserve reports as ofDecember 31, 2014, were$93.20per barrel of oil and$4.35per Mcf of natural gas. Our reference prices are the WTI spot price for crude oil and the Henry Hub spot price for natural gas.

b.  The present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes (PV-10) is not considered a U.S. generally accepted accounting principle (GAAP) financial measure. We believe that our PV-10 presentation is an important measure and useful to our investors because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved reserves before taking into account the related future income taxes, as such taxes may differ among companies because of differences in the amounts and timing of deductible basis, net operating loss carryforwards and other factors. We believe investors use our PV-10 as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our proved reserves to the reserve estimates of other companies. PV-10 is not a measure of financial or operating performance under U.S. GAAP and is not intended to represent the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. PV-10 should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under U.S. GAAP.



Refer to Note 21 for further discussion of our proved reserves.



Probable Reserves.All of our estimated probable oil and natural gas reserves atDecember 31, 2014, are based upon reserve reports prepared by the independent petroleum engineering firms of NSAI and Ryder Scott. Probable reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves, but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered. In addition to the uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved reserves, probable reserves may be assigned to areas where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonably certain criterion. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir. Probable reserve estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the









hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves. Undeveloped reserves that meet the reasonably certain, economic and other requirements to be classified as proved undeveloped, except that they are not expected to be developed within five years, are classified as probable reserves. AtDecember 31, 2014, our estimated probable oil and natural gas reserves totaled245MMBOE, of which81percent was comprised of oil (including NGLs).

Probable Oil and Natural Gas ReservesEstimated at December 31, 2014OilaNatural GasTotal(MMBbls)(Bcf)(MMBOE)Probable Developedb:GOM273332California8—8Haynesville/Madden/Other—61353941Probable Undeveloped:GOM817593California832287Haynesville/Madden/Other—14224164239204Total Probable Reserves199278245

a.  Includes7MMBbls of NGL probable reserves, consisting of2MMBbls of probable developed and5MMBbls of probable undeveloped.

b.  Reflects reserves associated with incremental recovery from existing production/injection wells that require minimal to no future development costs and reserves associated with work performed on existing producers/injectors that do not meet the reasonable certainty requirements to be classified as proved reserves.



Internal Control and Qualifications of Third Party Engineers and Internal Staff.The technical personnel responsible for preparing the reserve estimates at NSAI and Ryder Scott meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity, and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Both NSAI and Ryder Scott are independent firms of petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists, and petrophysicists; neither firm owns an interest in our properties nor are employed on a contingent fee basis. Our internal reservoir engineering staff are led and overseen by our Vice President of Engineering, who has over 38 years of technical experience in petroleum engineering and reservoir evaluation and analysis. This individual directs the activities of our internal reservoir staff for the internal reserve estimation process and also to provide the appropriate data to NSAI and Ryder Scott for our year-end oil and natural gas reserves estimation process.





Drilling Activities

The following table provides the total number of wells that we drilled during the year endedDecember 31, 2014, and the seven month period endingDecember 31, 2013:

Year EndedSeven Month Period EndingDecember 31, 2014December 31, 2013GrossNetGrossNetExploratoryProductive:Oil25214035Gas212252Dry431150266638DevelopmentProductive:Oil1841747166Gas7510238Dry2—112611849575311210161113











In addition to the wells drilled during 2014, there were 43 gross exploratory and 38 gross development wells (11 net exploratory and 8 net development wells) in progress atDecember 31, 2014, including 59 gross wells (7 net wells) in progress in the Haynesville Shale play.



In addition to the wells drilled during 2013, there were 36 gross exploratory and 60 gross development wells (23 net exploratory and 19 net development wells) in progress atDecember 31, 2013, including 50 gross wells (5 net wells) in progress in the Haynesville shale play and 36 gross wells (31 net wells) in progress in the Eagle Ford shale play.



Productive Wells

AtDecember 31, 2014, we had working interests in 3,069 gross (2,991 net) active producing wells and 1,710 gross (211 net) active producing natural gas wells. AtDecember 31, 2013, we had working interests in 3,310 gross (3,153 net) active producing oil wells and 1,651 gross (238 net) active producing natural gas wells. One or more completions in the same well bore are considered one well. If any well in which one of the multiple completions is an oil completion, such well is classified as an oil well. AtDecember 31, 2014and 2013, we owned interests in five gross wells containing multiple completions.





