Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties.



All of our periodic reports filed with the United States (U.S.) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, through our website, www.fcx.com, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports. These reports and amendments are available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material to the SEC.



References to “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Freeport-McMoRan Inc. (FCX) and its consolidated subsidiaries. References to “Notes” refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included herein (refer to Item 8), and references to “MD&A” refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included herein (refer to Item 7).



GENERAL



We are a premier U.S.-based natural resources company with an industry-leading global portfolio of mineral assets and significant oil and natural gas resources. Our portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, one of the world's largest copper and gold deposits; significant mining operations in North and South America; the Tenke Fungurume (Tenke) minerals district in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in Africa; and significant U.S. oil and natural gas assets. Our principal executive offices are in Phoenix, Arizona, and our company was incorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware on November 10, 1987.



During 2015, in response to weak market conditions, we took actions to enhance our financial position, including significant reductions in capital spending, production curtailments at certain North and South America mines and actions to reduce operating, exploration and administrative costs. We are also taking continuing actions to reduce oil and gas costs and capital expenditures. Our oil and gas business (FCX Oil & Gas Inc., or FM O&G) is undertaking a near-term deferral of exploration and development expenditures by idling the three Deepwater Gulf of Mexico (GOM) drillships it has under contract. Refer to "Mining Operations" and "Oil and Gas Operations" for further discussion of revised operating plans.



Concerns about the global economy, and particularly the weakening of the Chinese economy, have dominated financial market sentiment and negatively impacted commodity prices, including copper. Oil prices have weakened to multi-year lows in response to excess global supplies and relatively weak economic conditions. Current market conditions and uncertainty about the timing of economic and commodity price recovery require us to continue taking actions to strengthen our financial position, reduce debt and re-focus our portfolio of assets. Our business strategy is focused on our position as a leading global copper producer. We will continue to manage our production activities, spending on capital projects and the administration of our business to enhance cash flows, and intend to complete asset sales to reduce debt. Several initiatives are currently being advanced, including an evaluation of alternatives for the oil and gas business as well as several potential transactions involving certain of our mining assets. In February 2016, we announced that we have entered into a definitive agreement to sell a 13 percent undivided interest in the Morenci unincorporated joint venture to Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., Ltd. for $1.0 billion in cash (refer to Note18for further discussion).



We are confident about the longer term outlook for copper prices based on the global demand and supply fundamentals. With our established reserves and large-scale current production base, our significant portfolio of undeveloped resources, and our global organization of highly qualified and dedicated workers and management, we believe we are well positioned to generate significant asset sale proceeds while retaining an attractive portfolio of high-quality assets.



Our Board of Directors is undertaking a strategic review of alternatives for FM O&G. We and our advisors are actively engaged with interested participants in a process to evaluate opportunities that include asset sales and joint venture arrangements to generate cash proceeds for debt repayment. We expect to advance the evaluation of these alternatives during the first half of 2016.













Following are our ownership interests atDecember 31, 2015, in operating mines through our subsidiaries, Freeport Minerals Corporation (FMC) and PT Freeport Indonesia (PT-FI), and in our oil and gas business through our subsidiary, FM O&G:



a.FMC has an 85 percent undivided interest in Morenci via an unincorporated joint venture (as further discussed in Note18, we have entered into a definitive agreement to sell a 13 percent undivided interest in Morenci; the transaction is expected to close in mid-2016). Additionally, PT-FI has established an unincorporated joint venture with Rio Tinto plc (Rio Tinto) related to our Indonesia operations. Refer to Note3for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries and joint ventures.



As further discussed in Note2, in November 2014, we completed the sale of our80 percentownership interests in the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado copper mining operations in Chile. During 2014, we also completed the sale of our Eagle Ford shale assets in Texas and acquired additional oil and gas interests in the GOM.



Mining

AtDecember 31, 2015, our estimated consolidated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves totaled99.5 billionpounds of copper,27.1 millionounces of gold,3.05 billionpounds of molybdenum,271.2 millionounces of silver and0.87 billionpounds of cobalt. Following is a summary of our consolidated recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves atDecember 31, 2015, by geographic location (refer to “Mining Operations” for further discussion):

CopperGoldMolybdenumSilverCobaltNorth America34%1%78%29%—%South America31—2232—Indonesia2899—39—Africa7———100100%100%100%100%100%



In North America, we operate seven copper mines – Morenci, Bagdad, Safford, Sierrita and Miami in Arizona, and Chino and Tyrone in New Mexico, and two molybdenum mines – Henderson and Climax in Colorado. In addition to copper, certain of our North America copper mines also produce molybdenum concentrate and silver. In South America, we operate two copper mines – Cerro Verde in Peru and El Abra in Chile. In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine also produces molybdenum concentrate and silver. In Indonesia, our subsidiary PT-FI operates the mines in the Grasberg minerals district. In addition to copper, the Grasberg minerals district also produces significant quantities of gold and silver. In Africa, our subsidiary Tenke Fungurume Mining S.A. (TFM) operates the mines in the Tenke minerals district. In addition to copper, the Tenke minerals district also produces cobalt hydroxide.









Following is a summary of our consolidated copper, gold and molybdenum production for the year2015by geographic location (refer to "Mining Operations" for further information):

CopperGoldMolybdenumNorth America48%2%92%aSouth America22—8Indonesia1998—Africa11——100%100%100%

a.Our Henderson and Climax molybdenum mines produced52 percentof consolidated molybdenum production, and our North America copper mines produced40 percent.





The locations of our operating mines are shown on the world map below.

Oil and Gas

At December 31, 2015, our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves (all of which are located in the U.S.) totaled252 millionbarrels of oil equivalents (MMBOE), with82 percentcomprised of oil (including natural gas liquids, or NGLs) and67 percentrepresented by proved developed reserves. Refer to “Oil and Gas Operations” for further discussion.



Our portfolio of oil and gas assets include significant oil production facilities and growth potential in the Deepwater GOM, established oil production onshore and offshore California, large onshore natural gas resources in the Haynesville shale in Louisiana, natural gas production from the Madden area in central Wyoming, and a position in the Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous natural gas trend onshore in South Louisiana.











The locations of our U.S. oil and gas operations are shown on the map below:







COPPER, GOLD, MOLYBDENUM AND OIL



Following provides a brief discussion of our primary natural resources – copper, gold, molybdenum and oil. For further discussion of historical and current market prices of these commodities refer to MD&A and Item 1A. "Risk Factors."



Copper

Copper is an internationally traded commodity, and its prices are determined by the major metals exchanges – the London Metal Exchange (LME), New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) and Shanghai Futures Exchange. Prices on these exchanges generally reflect the worldwide balance of copper supply and demand, and can be volatile and cyclical. During2015, the LME spot copper price averaged$2.49per pound, ranging from a low of$2.05per pound to a high of$2.92per pound, and was$2.13per pound atDecember 31, 2015.



In general, demand for copper reflects the rate of underlying world economic growth, particularly in industrial production and construction. According to Wood Mackenzie, a widely followed independent metals market consultant, copper’s end-use markets (and their estimated shares of total consumption) are construction (30 percent), consumer products (28 percent), electrical applications (19 percent), transportation (12 percent) and industrial machinery (11 percent).



Gold

Gold is used for jewelry, coinage and bullion as well as various industrial and electronic applications. Gold can be readily sold on numerous markets throughout the world. Benchmark prices are generally based on London Bullion Market Association (London) PM quotations. During2015, the London PM gold price averaged$1,160per ounce, ranging from a low of$1,049per ounce to a high of$1,296per ounce, and was$1,062per ounce atDecember 31, 2015.



Molybdenum

Molybdenum is a key alloying element in steel and the raw material for several chemical-grade products used in catalysts, lubrication, smoke suppression, corrosion inhibition and pigmentation. Molybdenum, as a high-purity metal, is also used in electronics such as flat-panel displays and in super alloys used in aerospace. Reference prices for molybdenum are available in several publications, includingMetals Week,Ryan’s NotesandMetal Bulletin. During2015, the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted byMetals Weekaveraged$6.66per pound, ranging from a low of$4.46per pound to a high of$9.35per pound, and was$5.23per pound atDecember 31, 2015.











Oil

Oil products include transportation fuels, fuel oils for heating and electricity generation, asphalt and road oil, and the feedstocks used to make chemicals, plastics and synthetic materials. The price of crude oil is set in the global marketplace, with prices largely determined by regional benchmarks, including Brent, West Texas Intermediate (WTI) and Heavy Louisiana Sweet. Prices generally reflect the worldwide supply and demand balance, and can be volatile. During 2015, the Brent crude oil price averaged$53.64per barrel, ranging from a low of$36.11per barrel to a high of$67.77per barrel, and was$37.28per barrel atDecember 31, 2015.





PRODUCTS AND SALES



FCX’s consolidated revenues for2015primarily included sales of copper (67 percent), oil (11 percent), gold (10 percent) and molybdenum (5 percent). Oil and gas sales to Phillips 66 Company represented7 percentof our consolidated revenues in 2015 and12 percentin2014; no other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenues in any of the past three years. Refer to Note16for a summary of our consolidated revenues and operating income (loss) by business segment and geographic area.



Copper Products

We are one of the world’s leading producers of copper concentrate, cathode and continuous cast copper rod. During2015,43 percentof our mined copper was sold in concentrate,33 percentas cathode and24 percentas rod from North America operations.



Our copper ore is generally processed either by smelting and refining or by solution extraction and electrowinning (SX/EW). Before being subject to the smelting and refining process, ore is crushed and treated to produce a copper concentrate with copper content of approximately 20 to 30 percent. Copper concentrate is then smelted (i.e., subjected to extreme heat) to produce copper anode, which weighs between 800 and 900 pounds each and has an average copper content of 99.5 percent. The anode is further treated by electrolytic refining to produce copper cathode, which weighs between 100 and 350 pounds each and has an average copper content of 99.99 percent. For ore subject to the SX/EW process, copper is extracted from the ore by dissolving it with a weak sulphuric acid solution. The copper content of the solution is increased in two additional solution-extraction stages, and then the copper-bearing solution undergoes an electrowinning process to produce cathode that is, on average, 99.99 percent copper. Our copper cathode is used as the raw material input for copper rod, brass mill products and for other uses.



Copper Concentrate.  We produce copper concentrate at six of our mines. In North America, copper concentrate is produced at the Morenci, Bagdad, Sierrita and Chino mines, and a significant portion is shipped to our Miami smelter in Arizona. Copper concentrate is also produced at the Cerro Verde mine in Peru and the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia.



Copper Cathode.  We produce copper cathode at our electrolytic refinery located in El Paso, Texas, and at 10 of our mines. SX/EW cathode is produced from the Morenci, Bagdad, Safford, Sierrita, Miami, Chino and Tyrone mines in North America; from the Cerro Verde and El Abra mines in South America; and from the Tenke minerals district in Africa.Copper cathode is also produced at Atlantic Copper (our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in Spain) and PT Smelting (PT-FI's 25 percent owned copper smelter and refinery in Indonesia). Refer to "Mining Operations - Smelting Facilities and Other Mining Properties" for further discussion of Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting.



Continuous Cast Copper Rod.  We manufacture continuous cast copper rod at our facilities in El Paso, Texas; Norwich, Connecticut; and Miami, Arizona, primarily using copper cathode produced at our North America copper mines.



Copper Sales

North America.  The majority of the copper produced at our North America copper mines and refined in our El Paso, Texas, refinery is consumed at our rod plants. The remainder of our North America copper production is sold in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate under U.S. dollar-denominated annual contracts. Cathode and rod contract prices are generally based on the prevailing Commodity Exchange Inc. (COMEX - a division of NYMEX) monthly average spot price for the month of shipment and include a premium. Generally, copper rod is sold to wire and cable manufacturers, while cathode is sold to rod, brass or tube fabricators. During2015, 15 percent of our North America mines' copper sales volumes were shipped to Atlantic Copper in the form of copper concentrate.











South America.Production from our South America mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under U.S. dollar-denominated, annual and multi-year contracts. During 2015, our South America mines sold half of their copper production in concentrate and half as cathode.



Substantially all of South America’s copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted LME monthly average spot copper prices. Revenues from South America’s concentrate sales are recorded net of treatment and refining charges (i.e.,fees paid to smelters and refiners that are generally negotiated annually). In addition, because a portion of the metals contained in copper concentrate is unrecoverable from the smelting process, revenues from South America’s concentrate sales are also recorded net of allowances for unrecoverable metals, which are a negotiated term of the contracts and vary by customer.



Indonesia.PT-FI sells its production in the form of copper concentrate, which contains significant quantities of gold and silver, under U.S. dollar-denominated, long-term contracts. PT-FI also sells a small amount of copper concentrate in the spot market. Following is a summary of PT-FI’s aggregate percentage concentrate sales to third parties, PT Smelting and Atlantic Copper for the years ended December 31:

201520142013Third parties61%36%50%PT Smelting375841Atlantic Copper269100%100%100%



Substantially all of PT-FI’s concentrate sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted LME monthly average spot copper prices. Revenues from PT-FI’s concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties, export duties, treatment charges and allowances for unrecoverable metals.



Africa.  TFM sells its production in the form of copper cathode under U.S. dollar-denominated contracts. Substantially all of TFM's cathode sales provide final copper pricing in the month after the shipment date based on quoted LME monthly average spot copper prices. Revenues from TFM's cathode sales are recorded net of royalties and also include adjustments for point-of-sale transportation costs that are negotiated in customer contracts.



Gold Products and Sales

We produce gold mostly from the Grasberg minerals district. Gold is primarily sold as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes, which are a product of the smelting and refining process at Atlantic Copper. Gold generally is priced at the average London price for a specified month near the month of shipment. Revenues from gold sold as a component of our copper concentrate are recorded net of treatment and refining charges. Revenues from gold sold in slimes are recorded net of refining charges.



Molybdenum Products and Sales

We are the world’s largest producer of molybdenum and molybdenum-based chemicals. In addition to production from the Henderson and Climax molybdenum mines, we produce molybdenum concentrate at certain of the North America copper mines and the Cerro Verde copper mine in Peru. The majority of our molybdenum concentrate is processed in our own conversion facilities. During 2015, our molybdenum sales were generally priced based on the averageMetals Weekprice for the month prior to the month of shipment. We have incorporated changes in the commercial pricing structure for our chemicals products to promote continuation of chemical-grade production.



Cobalt and Silver Products and Sales

We produce cobalt hydroxide at the Tenke minerals district. Cobalt hydroxide is priced at a discount to the average monthly low price as published byMetal Bulletinor using LME-based pricing for a specified month near the month of shipment. We also produce silver as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes. Silver generally is priced at the average London price for a specified month near the month of shipment.



Oil and Gas Products and Sales

We produce and sell oil and gas in the U.S. Our oil production is primarily sold under contracts with prices based upon regional benchmarks, and approximately 30 percent of our gas sales is priced monthly using industry-recognized, published index pricing, and the remainder is priced daily on the spot market.











Approximately 70 percent of our California production is attributable to heavy crude oil, which is primarily sold under a long-term contract with prices based upon regional benchmarks. In the GOM, our share of oil and gas production is sold under a series of contracts pursuant to which crude oil is sold directly to refineries in the Gulf Coast regions of Texas and Louisiana at prices based on widely used industry benchmarks.





LABOR MATTERS



AtDecember 31, 2015, we employed approximately 34,500 people (12,400 in the U.S., 12,100 in Indonesia, 5,200 in South America, 3,400 in Africa, and 1,400 in Europe and other locations), and also had contractors with personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 20,600 at the Grasbergminerals district, 6,300 at our South America mining operations, 6,000 at the Tenke minerals district, 4,100 in the U.S., and 500 in Europe and other locations. The number of employees represented by unions at December 31, 2015, and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements are listed below.



LocationNumber of UnionsNumber ofUnion-Represented EmployeesExpiration DatePT-FI – Indonesia29,058September 2017TFM – DRC113,326N/AaCerro Verde – Peru32,735August 2018El Abra – Chile2612April 2016bAtlantic Copper – Spain2423December 2015cKokkola - Finland3414November 2016Rotterdam – The Netherlands260March 2015cStowmarket – United Kingdom140May 2017Bayway – New Jersey136April 2016

a.The Collective Labor Agreement (CLA) between TFM and its workers’ unions has no expiration date, but can be amended at any time in accordance with an established process. In September 2012, TFM negotiated a four-year salary scale with union-represented employees.

b.In February 2016, El Abra and one of its workers’ unions (representing approximately one-third of El Abra’s union-represented employees) signed a new four-year CLA agreement, which expires April 2020.

c.The CLA between Atlantic Copper and its workers' unions expired in December 2015, and the CLA between Rotterdam and its workers' unions expired in March 2015; new agreements are currently being negotiated.



Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for further information on labor matters.





ENVIRONMENTAL AND RECLAMATION MATTERS



The cost of complying with environmental laws is fundamental to and a substantial cost of our business. For information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Notes1and12.





COMPETITION



The top 10 producers of copper comprise approximately half of total worldwide mined copper production. We currently rank second among those producers, with approximately eight percent of estimated total worldwide mined copper production. Our competitive position is based on the size, quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. We have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. Our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies, and the level of input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. The metals markets are cyclical, and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce, and to manage our costs.



Within the oil and gas industry, our competitors include national and international oil companies, major integrated oil and gas companies, numerous independent oil and gas companies and others. There is substantial competition in the oil and gas industry. Our ability to identify and successfully develop additional prospects and to discover oil and









gas reserves in the future will depend on capital availability and our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties, consummate transactions and manage our operations in a cost-efficient and effective manner in a highly competitive environment.





MINING OPERATIONS



Revised Operating Plans

During 2015, in response to weak market conditions, we took actions to enhance our financial position, including significant reductions in capital spending, production curtailments at certain North and South America mines (which resulted in aggregate annual reductions of 350 million pounds of copper and 34 million pounds of molybdenum) and actions to reduce operating, exploration and administrative costs. We continue to evaluate our mining operating plans and additional adjustments may be made as market conditions warrant.



Revised operating plans for the North America copper mines incorporate reductions in mining rates to reduce operating and capital costs, including the suspension of mining operations at the Miami mine, the suspension of production at the Sierrita mine, a 50 percent reduction in mining rates at the Tyrone mine and adjustments to mining rates at other North America mines. The revised plans at each of the operations also incorporated the impacts of lower energy, acid and other consumables, reduced labor costs and a significant reduction in capital spending plans.



The revised operating plan for our Henderson molybdenum mine incorporates lower operating rates, resulting in an approximate 65 percent reduction in annual production volumes. We have also incorporated changes in the commercial pricing structure for our chemical products to promote continuation of chemical-grade production.



Revised operating plans for the South America mines principally reflect adjustments at El Abra to reduce mining and stacking rates by approximately 50 percent to achieve lower operating and labor costs, defer capital expenditures and extend the life of the existing operation.



The revised operating plan for PT-FI incorporates improved operational efficiencies, reductions in input costs, supplies and contractor costs, and a deferral of 15 percent of capital expenditures that had been planned for 2016.



The revised operating plan for the Tenke mine incorporates a 50 percent reduction in capital spending that had been planned for 2016 and various initiatives to reduce operating, administrative and exploration costs.



Following are maps and descriptions of our mining operations in North America (including both copper and molybdenum operations), South America, Indonesia and Africa.



North America

In the U.S., most of the land occupied by our copper and molybdenum mines, concentrators, SX/EW facilities, smelter, refinery, rod mills, molybdenum roasters and processing facilities is generally owned by us or is located on unpatented mining claims owned by us. Certain portions of our Bagdad, Sierrita, Miami, Chino, Tyrone, Henderson and Climax operations are located on government-owned land and are operated under a Mine Plan of Operations or other use permit. Various federal and state permits or leases on government land are held for purposes incidental to mine operations.











Morenci





We own an 85 percent undivided interest in Morenci, with the remaining 15 percent owned by Sumitomo Metal Mining Arizona, Inc. Each partner takes in kind its share of Morenci’s production.



As further discussed in Note18, we have entered into a definitive agreement to sell a 13 percent undivided interest in Morenci. Following completion of the transaction, we will own a 72 percent undivided interest in Morenci.



Morenci is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in continuous operation since 1939 and previously was mined through underground workings. Morenci is located in Greenlee County, Arizona, approximately 50 miles northeast of Safford on U.S. Highway 191. The site is accessible by a paved highway and a railway spur.



The Morenci mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, with chalcopyrite as the dominant primary copper sulfide.



The Morenci operation consists of two concentrators capable of milling 115,000 metric tons of ore per day, which produce copper and molybdenum concentrate; a 68,000 metric ton-per-day, crushed-ore leach pad and stacking system; a low-grade run-of-mine (ROM) leaching system; four SX plants; and three EW tank houses that produce copper cathode. Total EW tank house capacity is approximately 900 million pounds of copper per year. During second-quarter 2015, Morenci’s concentrate leach, direct-electrowinning facility (which was placed on care-and-maintenance status in early 2009) resumed operation. Morenci's available mining fleet consists of one hundred and eleven 236-metric ton haul trucks loaded by 12 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 47 to 57 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 815,000 metric tons of material per day.



The Morenci mill expansion project, which commenced operations in May 2014, successfully achieved full rates in second-quarter 2015. The project expanded mill capacity from 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to approximately 115,000 metric tons of ore per day, which results in incremental annual production of approximately 225 million pounds of copper and an improvement in Morenci's cost structure. Over the next five years, Morenci's copper production, including our joint venture partner share, is expected to average approximately one billion pounds per year.



Morenci’s production, including our joint venture partner’s share, totaled1.06 billionpounds of copper and 8 million pounds of molybdenum in2015,812 millionpounds of copper and less than 1 million pounds of molybdenum in2014, and664 millionpounds of copper and2 millionpounds of molybdenum in2013.



Morenci is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 13 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 840 meters above sea level. The Morenci operation encompasses approximately 68,250 acres, comprising 51,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, 14,050 acres of unpatented mining claims and 3,050 acres of land held by state or federal permits, easements and rights-of-way.



The Morenci operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from Tucson Electric Power Company, Arizona Public Service Company and the Luna Energy facility in Deming, New Mexico. Although we believe the Morenci operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water









supply for the Morenci operation. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion.

Bagdad





Our wholly owned Bagdad mine is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in Yavapai County in west-central Arizona. It is approximately 60 miles west of Prescott and 100 miles northwest of Phoenix. The property can be reached by Arizona Highway 96, which ends at the town of Bagdad. The closest railroad is at Hillside, Arizona, approximately 24 miles southeast on Arizona Highway 96. The open-pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was conducted through underground workings.



The Bagdad mine is a porphyry copper deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. Chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic minerals in the mine. Chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite and azurite.



The Bagdad operation consists of a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate, an SX/EW plant that can produce up to 32 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by low-grade stockpile leaching, and a pressure-leach plant to process molybdenum concentrate. The available mining fleet consists of thirty 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 250,000 metric tons of material per day.



Bagdad’s production totaled210 millionpounds of copper and9 millionpounds of molybdenum in2015,237 millionpounds of copper and9 millionpounds of molybdenum in2014, and216 millionpounds of copper and8 millionpounds of molybdenum in2013.



Bagdad is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 310 meters above sea level. The Bagdad operation encompasses approximately 21,750 acres, comprising 21,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 600 acres of unpatented mining claims.



Bagdad receives electrical power from Arizona Public Service Company. We believe the Bagdad operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations.









Safford





Our wholly owned Safford mine has been in operation since 2007 and is an open-pit copper mining complex located in Graham County, Arizona, approximately 8 miles north of the town of Safford and 170 miles east of Phoenix. The site is accessible by paved county road off U.S. Highway 70.



The Safford mine includes two copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite.



The property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathode. The operation consists of two open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day. The crushed ore is delivered to leach pads by a series of overland and portable conveyors. Leach solutions feed a SX/EW facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. A sulfur burner plant is also in operation at Safford, providing a cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in SX/EW operations. The available mining fleet consists of sixteen 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 225,000 metric tons of material per day.



Safford’s copper production totaled202 millionpounds in2015,139 millionpounds in2014and146 millionpounds in2013.



Safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 750 meters above sea level. The Safford operation encompasses approximately 25,000 acres, comprising 21,000 acres of patented lands, 3,950 acres of unpatented lands and 50 acres of land held by federal permit.



The Safford operation’s electrical power is primarily sourced from Tucson Electric Power Company, Arizona Public Service Company and the Luna Energy facility. Although we believe the Safford operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the Safford operation. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion.











Sierrita





Our wholly owned Sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in Pima County, Arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of Tucson and 7 miles west of the town of Green Valley and Interstate Highway 19. The site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail.



The Sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides.



The Sierrita operation includes a 102,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate. Sierrita also produces copper from a ROM oxide-leaching system. Cathode copper is plated at the Twin Buttes EW facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. The Sierrita operation also has molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. The molybdenum facilities process molybdenum concentrate produced by Sierrita, from our other mines and from third-party sources. The available mining fleet consists of twenty-five 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 200,000 metric tons of material per day.



In response to low copper and molybdenum prices, during December 2015, we announced plans to suspend production at the Sierrita mine. The plan consists of putting the mine and concentrator operations on care-and-maintenance status and producing copper through the oxide-leaching system. Additionally, Sierrita's molybdenum processing facility will continue to process material from our other mines. Sierrita’s production totaled189 millionpounds of copper and21 millionpounds of molybdenum in2015,195 millionpounds of copper and24 millionpounds of molybdenum in2014, and171 millionpounds of copper and20 millionpounds of molybdenum in2013.



Sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 12 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,160 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 440 meters above sea level. The Sierrita operation, including the adjacent Twin Buttes site (refer to "Smelting Facilities and Other Mining Properties" for further discussion), encompasses approximately 37,650 acres, comprising 13,300 acres of patented mining claims and 24,350 acres of split-estate lands.



Sierrita receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the Tucson Electric Power Company. Although we believe the Sierrita operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the Sierrita operation. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion.











Miami





Our wholly owned Miami mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in Gila County, Arizona, approximately 90 miles east of Phoenix and 6 miles west of the city of Globe on U.S. Highway 60. The site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail.



The Miami mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite. Chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals.



Since about 1915, the Miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies.



As a result of current economic conditions, we have revised operating plans to suspend mining operations at the Miami mine and produce copper through leaching material already placed on stockpiles. The design capacity of the SX/EW plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year.



Miami’s copper production totaled43 millionpounds in2015,57 millionpounds in2014and61 millionpounds in2013.



Miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom will have an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. The Miami operation encompasses approximately 9,100 acres, comprising 8,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 350 acres of unpatented mining claims.



Miami receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the Salt River Project and natural gas through long-term contracts with El Paso Natural Gas as the transporter. Although we believe the Miami operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the Miami operation. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for further discussion.











Chino and Tyrone





Chino

Our wholly owned Chino mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in Grant County, New Mexico, approximately 15 miles east of the town of Silver City off of State Highway 180. The mine is accessible by paved roads and by rail. Chino has been in operation since 1910.



The Chino mine is a porphyry copper deposit with adjacent copper skarn deposits. There is leachable oxide, secondary sulfide and millable primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite the dominant primary sulfides.



The Chino operation consists of a 36,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrate, and a 150 million pound-per-year SX/EW plant that produces copper cathode from solution generated by ROM leaching. The available mining fleet consists of thirty-seven 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 42 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 235,000 metric tons of material per day.



Chino's production totaled314 millionpounds of copper in2015,250 millionpounds of copper and less than 1 million pounds of molybdenum in2014, and171 millionpounds of copper and2 millionpounds of molybdenum in2013.



Chino is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 2,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,500 meters above sea level. The Chino operation encompasses approximately 118,600 acres, comprising 113,200 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 5,400 acres of unpatented mining claims.



Chino receives power from the Luna Energy facility and from the open market. We believe Chino has sufficient water resources to support current operations.



Tyrone

Our wholly owned Tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. It is located in Grant County, New Mexico, approximately 10 miles south of Silver City, New Mexico, along State Highway 90. The site is accessible by paved road and by rail.



The Tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. Mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of chalcocite, with leachable oxide mineralization consisting of chrysocolla.



Copper processing facilities consist of a SX/EW operation with a maximum capacity of approximately 100 million pounds of copper cathode per year. The available mining fleet consists of seven 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by one shovel with a bucket size of 47 cubic meters, which is capable of moving an average of 49,000 metric tons of material per day.



The revised operating plans include a 50 percent reduction in mining rates at the Tyrone mine. Tyrone’s copper production totaled84 millionpounds in2015,94 millionpounds in2014and96 millionpounds in2013.











Tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,500 meters above sea level. The Tyrone operation encompasses approximately 35,200 acres, comprising 18,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and 16,450 acres of unpatented mining claims.



Tyrone receives electrical power from the Luna Energy facility and from the open market. We believe the Tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations.



Henderson and Climax





Henderson

Our wholly owned Henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located approximately 42 miles west of Denver, Colorado, off U.S. Highway 40. Nearby communities include the towns of Empire, Georgetown and Idaho Springs. The Henderson mill site is located approximately 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from Colorado State Highway 9. The Henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the Continental Divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. The tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill.



The Henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit, with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral.



The Henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 32,000 metric tons per day. Henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 40 million pounds of molybdenum per year. The majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our Fort Madison, Iowa, processing facility. The available underground mining equipment fleet consists of fifteen 9-metric ton load-haul-dump (LHD) units and seven 73-metric ton haul trucks, which deliver ore to a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles.



The revised operating plans for the Henderson mine incorporate an approximate 65 percent reduction in operating rates. Henderson’s molybdenum production totaled25 millionpounds in2015, and30 millionpounds in both2014and2013.



The Henderson mine is located in a mountainous region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. The main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. This region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months.



The Henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 11,900 acres, comprising 11,850 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands and a 50-acre easement with the U.S. Forest Service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor.



Henderson operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with Xcel Energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with BP Energy Company (with Xcel Energy as the transporter). We believe the Henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations.



Climax

Our wholly owned Climax mine is located 13 miles northeast of Leadville, Colorado, off Colorado State Highway 91 at the top of Fremont Pass. The mine is accessible by paved roads.











The Climax ore body is a porphyry molybdenum deposit, with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral.



The Climax open-pit mine includes a 25,000 metric ton-per-day mill facility. Climax has the capacity to produce approximately 30 million pounds of molybdenum per year. The available mining fleet consists of nine 177-metric ton haul trucks loaded by two hydraulic shovels with bucket sizes of 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 90,000 metric tons of material per day.



Molybdenum production from Climax totaled23 millionpounds in2015,21 millionpounds in2014and19 millionpounds in2013.



The Climax mine is located in a mountainous region. The highest bench elevation is approximately 4,050 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of approximately 3,100 meters above sea level. This region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months.



The operations encompass approximately 14,350 acres, consisting primarily of patented mining claims and other fee lands.



Climax operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with Xcel Energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with Andarko Energy and BP Energy Company (with Xcel Energy as the transporter). We believe the Climax operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations.



South America

At our operations in South America, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. The claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have a controlling ownership interest. Roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements.



Cerro Verde





We have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in Cerro Verde, with the remaining 46.44 percent held by SMM Cerro Verde Netherlands B.V. (21.0 percent), Compañia de Minas Buenaventura S.A.A. (19.58 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the Lima Stock Exchange (5.86 percent).



Cerro Verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of Arequipa, Peru. The site is accessible by paved highway. A majority of Cerro Verde’s copper cathode production is sold locally, and the remaining copper cathode and concentrate production are transported approximately 70 miles by truck and by rail to the Port of Matarani for shipment to international markets.



The Cerro Verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide, secondary sulfide and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper “pitch.” Chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. Chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides.



Cerro Verde’s operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, a 360,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator and SX/EW leaching facilities. Leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility









and a ROM leach system. This SX/EW leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year.



The Cerro Verde expansion project commenced operations in September 2015 and is currently operating at full rates. Cerro Verde's expanded operations will benefit from its large-scale, long-lived reserves and cost efficiencies. The project expanded the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and is expected to provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum.



The available fleet consists of six 290-metric ton haul trucks and eighty-two 230-metric ton haul trucks loaded by nine electric shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 33 to 57 cubic meters and two hydraulic shovels with a bucket size of 21 cubic meters. This fleet is capable of moving an average of approximately 725,000 metric tons of material per day.



Cerro Verde’s production totaled545 millionpounds of copper and7 millionpounds of molybdenum in2015,500 millionpounds of copper and11 millionpounds of molybdenum in2014, and558 millionpounds of copper and13 millionpounds of molybdenum in2013.



Cerro Verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 2,750 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,570 meters above sea level. The Peruvian general mining law and Cerro Verde's mining stability agreement grants the surface rights of mining concessions located on government land. Additional government land if obtained prior to 1997, must be leased or purchased. Cerro Verde has a mining concession covering approximately 157,000 acres, including 14,500 acres rented from the Regional Government of Arequipa, plus 71 acres of owned property, and 80 acres of rights-of-way outside the mining concession area.



Cerro Verde receives electrical power under long-term contracts with Kallpa Generación SA and ElectroPeru to supply energy to the expanded facilities.



Water for our Cerro Verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. In 2015, Cerro Verde completed the construction of a wastewater treatment plant that intercepts raw sewage that would otherwise be discharged into the Rio Chile and processes it for both use at the Cerro Verde mine and for recharge of treated water into the Rio Chile. Prior to construction of the wastewater treatment plant, Cerro Verde reached agreement with the Regional Government of Arequipa, the National Government, the local water utility company, Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Arequipa S.A. (SEDAPAR), and other local institutions to allow it to reuse an annual average of one cubic meter per second of the treated water to support the recently completed concentrator expansion. For further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”











El Abra





We own a 51 percent interest in El Abra, and the remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state-owned copper enterprise Corporación Nacional del Cobre de Chile (CODELCO).



El Abra is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of Calama in Chile’s El Loa province, Region II. The site is accessible by paved highway and by rail.



The El Abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has sulfide and oxide mineralization. The predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. There is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralization

as chalcocite. The oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. There are lesser amounts of copper-bearing clays and tenorite.



The El Abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a SX/EW facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 125,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized ROM leaching operation. The available fleet consists of forty-one 220-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 34 to 63 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 214,000 metric tons of material per day.



The revised operating plans for El Abra reduce mining and stacking rates by approximately 50 percent to achieve lower operating and labor costs, defer capital expenditures and extend the life of the existing operations. El Abra’s copper production totaled324 millionpounds in2015,367 millionpounds in2014and343 millionpounds in2013.



Exploration results in recent years at El Abra indicate a significant sulfide resource, which could potentially support a major mill project. Future investments will be dependent on technical studies, economic factors and global copper market conditions.



El Abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 4,180 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,430 meters above sea level. El Abra controls a total of approximately 151,300 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. In addition, El Abra has land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the Salar de Ascotán aquifer.



El Abra currently receives electrical power under a long-term contract with E-Cl. Water for our El Abra processing operations comes from the continued pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotán aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. We believe El Abra has sufficient water rights and regulatory approvals to support current operations. El Abra is conducting studies to assess the feasibility of constructing a desalination plant near the Pacific Ocean to treat seawater for possible increased sulfide ore production through ore mill processing. For a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”











Indonesia





Ownership. PT-FI is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the Republic of Indonesia. We directly own 81.28 percent of the outstanding common stock of PT-FI and indirectly own 9.36 percent through our wholly owned subsidiary, PT Indocopper Investama; the Indonesian government owns the remaining 9.36 percent.



PT-FI has established an unincorporated joint venture with Rio Tinto, under which Rio Tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021 in Block A of PT-FI's Contract of Work (COW), and after 2021, a 40 percent interest in all production from Block A. Refer to Note3for further discussion of the joint venture agreement.



Contract of Work. PT-FI conducts its current exploration and mining operations in Indonesia through a COW with the Indonesian government. The COW governs our rights and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls, royalties, repatriation and other matters, and was concluded pursuant to the 1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which expresses Indonesia’s foreign investment policy and provides basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. Specifically, the COW provides that the Indonesian government will not nationalize or expropriate PT-FI’s mining operations. Any disputes regarding the provisions of the COW are subject to international arbitration; however, we have not had an arbitration during the more than 40 years we have operated in Indonesia.



PT-FI’s original COW was entered into in 1967 and was replaced by the current COW in 1991. The initial term of the current COW expires in 2021, but the COW explicitly provides that it can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to Indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the COW cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. The COW allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in the 24,700-acre Block A area, which is where all of PT-FI’s proven and probable mineral reserves and all its current mining operations are located. Under the COW, PT-FI also conducts exploration activities in the Block B area currently covering 502,000 acres. Ongoing negotiations for an amended COW, discussed below and in Note13, may result in relinquishments of the Block B acreage.



Under the COW, PT-FI pays royalties on copper, gold and silver in the concentrate it sells (refer to Note13for further discussion of the royalty rates and the "Regulatory Matters" discussion below regarding the modifications resulting from the July 2014 Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) entered into with Indonesian government). A large part of the mineral royalties under Indonesian government regulations is designated to the provinces from which the minerals are extracted. In connection with its fourth concentrator mill expansion completed in 1998, PT-FI agreed to pay the Indonesian government additional royalties, which were not required by the COW, to provide further support to the local governments and to the people of the Indonesian province of Papua. PT-FI’s royalties totaled$114 millionin2015,$115 millionin2014and$109 millionin2013.









Regulatory Matters. In January 2014, the Indonesian government published regulations that among other things imposed a progressive export duty on copper concentrate and restricts concentrate exports after January 12, 2017. Despite PT-FI’s rights under its COW to export concentrate without the payment of duties, PT-FI was unable to obtain administrative approval for exports and operated at approximately half of its capacity from mid-January 2014 through July 2014.



In July 2014, PT-FI entered into a MOU with the Indonesian government. Under the MOU, PT-FI provided a $115 million assurance bond to support its commitment for smelter development, agreed to increase royalty rates and agreed to pay export duties (which were set at 7.5 percent, declining to 5.0 percent when smelter development progress exceeds 7.5 percent and are eliminated when development progress exceeds 30 percent). The MOU also anticipated an amendment of the COW within six months to address other matters; however, no terms of the COW other than those relating to the smelter bond, increased royalties and export duties were changed. In January 2015, the MOU was extended to July 25, 2015, and it expired on that date. The increased royalty rates, export duties and smelter assurance bond remain in effect. PT-FI paid export duties totaling$109 millionin2015and$77 millionin2014.



PT-FI is required to apply for renewal of export permits at six-month intervals. On July 29, 2015, PT-FI's export permit was renewed through January 28, 2016. In connection with the renewal, export duties were reduced to 5.0 percent as a result of smelter development progress. On February 9, 2016, PT-FI's export permit was renewed through August 8, 2016. PT-FI will continue to pay a 5.0 percent export duty on concentrate while it reviews its smelter progress with the Indonesian government.



PT-FI continues to engage in discussions with the Indonesian government regarding its COW and long-term operating rights. In October 2015, the Indonesian government provided a letter of assurance to PT-FI indicating that it will approve the extension of PT-FI's operations beyond 2021, and provide the same rights and the same level of legal and fiscal certainty provided under its current COW.



In connection with its COW negotiations and subject to concluding the agreement to extend PT-FI's operations beyond 2021 on acceptable terms, PT-FI has agreed to construct new smelter capacity in Indonesia and to divest an additional 20.64 percent in PT-FI at fair market value. PT-FI continues to advance plans for the smelter in parallel with completing its COW negotiations.



We cannot predict whether PT-FI will be successful in reaching a satisfactory agreement on the terms of its long-term mining rights. If PT-FI is unable to reach agreement with the Indonesian government on its long-term rights, we may be required to reduce or defer investments in underground development projects, which could have a material adverse effect on PT-FI’s future production and reserves. In addition, PT-FI would intend to pursue any and all claims against the Indonesian government for breach of contract through international arbitration. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for further discussion of risks associated with operations in Indonesia.



Grasberg Minerals District.  PT-FI operates in the remote highlands of the Sudirman Mountain Range in the province of Papua, Indonesia, which is on the western half of the island of New Guinea. We and our predecessors have been the only operator of exploration and mining activities in Block A since 1967.



The Grasberg minerals district has three operating mines: the Grasberg open pit, the Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) underground mine and the Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ) underground mine. The Grasberg minerals district also includes the developed Big Gossan underground mine where operations are currently suspended and are expected to restart in the first half of 2017. PT-FI also has several projects in progress in the Grasberg minerals district related to the development of the large-scale, long-lived, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the Grasberg open pit. In aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to produce large-scale quantities of copper and gold following the transition from the Grasberg open pit, currently anticipated to occur in late 2017. Refer to MD&A for further discussion of these projects.



PT-FI’s production, including our joint venture partner’s share, totaled752 millionpounds of copper and1.23 millionounces of gold in2015,651 millionpounds of copper and1.13 millionounces of gold in2014and928 millionpounds of copper and1.14 millionounces of gold in2013.



Our principal source of power for all our Indonesian operations is a coal-fired power plant that we built in 1998. Diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. A combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations.









Although we typically have sufficient water for our Indonesian operations, lower rainfall resulting from ElNiñoweather conditions in the second half of 2015 has impacted operations, and may continue to impact operations in 2016. Our Indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches.



Grasberg Open Pit

PT-FI began open-pit mining of the Grasberg ore body in 1990. Mining operations are expected to continue through the end of 2017, and production from the ore stockpiles, which are located outside of the pit limits, are expected to continue until early 2019. Production in the open pit is currently at the 3,160- to 3,715-meter elevation level and totaled 42 million metric tons of ore in2015, which provided 70 percent of PT-FI's2015mill feed.



The current open-pit equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. The larger mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 141 haul trucks with payloads ranging from 218 to 276 metric tons and 16 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 17 to 42 cubic meters, which mined an average of 250,400 metric tons of material per day in2015, 298,400 metric tons per day in2014and 381,000 metric tons per day in2013.



Crushing and conveying systems are integral to the Grasberg mine and provide the capacity to transport more than 250,000 metric tons of ore per day. For the year 2015, Grasberg's crushing and conveying systems delivered an average of 116,000 metric tons of ore per day to the mill. Grasberg's overburden handling system is capable of delivering 175,000 metric tons per day. For the year 2015, the Grasberg overburden handling system delivered an average of 43,000 metric tons per day of overburden to the overburden stockpiles. The remaining overburden moved by haul trucks averaged 72,000 metric tons per day in 2015. Ore milled from the Grasberg open pit averaged115,900metric tons of ore per day in2015, 69,100 metric tons of ore per day in 2014 and 127,700 metric tons of ore per day in 2013.



DOZ Underground Mine

The DOZ ore body lies vertically below the now depleted Intermediate Ore Zone. PT-FI began production from the DOZ ore body in 1989 using open-stope mining methods, but suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the Grasberg open pit. Production resumed in September 2000 using the block-cave method and is at the 3,110-meter elevation level.



The DOZ is a mature block-cave mine that previously operated at 80,000 metric tons of ore per day. Current operating rates from the DOZ underground mine, which range from 35,000 to 65,000 metric tons of ore per day, are driven by the value of the incremental DOZ ore grade compared to the ore from the Grasberg open pit and ore grade material from the development of the DMLZ and Grasberg Block Cave underground mines. During 2015, ore milled from the DOZ underground mine averaged43,700metric tons of ore per day. Production at the DOZ underground mine is expected to continue through 2021.



The DOZ mine fleet consists of over 250 pieces of mobile equipment. The primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 52 LHD units and 21 haul trucks. Each production LHD unit typically carries approximately 11 metric tons of ore. Using ore passes and chutes, the LHD units transfer ore into 55-metric ton capacity haul trucks. The trucks dump into two gyratory crushers, and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing.



The success of the development of the DOZ mine, one of the world’s largest underground mines, provides confidence in the future development of PT-FI’s large-scale, underground ore bodies.



DMLZ Underground Mine

The DMLZ ore body lies below the DOZ underground mine at the 2,590-meter elevation and represents the downward continuation of mineralization in the Ertsberg East Skarn system and neighboring Ertsberg porphyry. PT-FI began production from the DMLZ ore body in September 2015 using the block-cave method. Ore milled from the DMLZ underground mine averaged2,900metric tons of ore per day for the year 2015 (3,500metric tons per day in fourth-quarter 2015). Targeted production rates once the DMLZ underground mine reaches full capacity are expected to approximate 80,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2021. Production at the DMLZ underground mine is expected to continue through 2040.



The DMLZ mine fleet consists of over 277 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes 33 LHD units and 19 haul trucks used in production and development activities.











Big Gossan Underground Mine

Production from the Big Gossan ore body, which is currently suspended, is expected to restart in the first half of 2017 and ramp up to 7,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2019. The Big Gossan mine lies underground and adjacent to the current mill site. It is a tabular, near vertical ore body with approximate dimensions of 1,200 meters along strike and 800 meters down dip with varying thicknesses from 20 meters to 120 meters. The mine utilizes a blasthole stoping method with delayed paste backfill. Stopes of varying sizes are mined and the ore dropped down passes to a truck haulage level. Trucks are chute loaded and transport the ore to a jaw crusher. The crushed ore is then hoisted vertically via a two-skip production shaft to a level where it is loaded onto a conveyor belt. The belt carries the ore to one of the main underground conveyors where the ore is transferred and conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing.



The Big Gossan mine fleet consists of over 135 pieces of mobile equipment, which includes five LHD units and three haul trucks used in development and production activities.



Description of Ore Bodies.Our Indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the Grasberg monzodiorite and the Ertsberg diorite. The host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the Sudirman Range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. The igneous-hosted ore bodies (the Grasberg open pit and block cave, and portions of the DOZ block cave) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a lesser extent, bornite. The sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies (portions of the DOZ and all of the Big Gossan) occur as “magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn” replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions.



The copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. Moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the district’s ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. These gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite.



The following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported Indonesia ore bodies.









The following map, which encompasses an area of approximately 42 square kilometers (approximately 16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported Indonesia ore bodies and their locations.







Africa





TFM is organized under the laws of the DRC. We own an effective 56 percent interest in TFM, with the remaining ownership interests held by Lundin Mining Corporation (Lundin) (an effective 24 percent interest) and La Générale des Carrières et des Mines (Gécamines), which is wholly owned by the DRC government (a 20 percent non-dilutable interest).



TFM is entitled to mine in the DRC under an Amended and Restated Mining Convention (ARMC) with the DRC government. The original Mining Convention entered into in 1996 was replaced with the ARMC in 2005 and was further amended in 2010 (approved in 2011). The current ARMC will remain in effect for as long as the Tenke concessions are exploitable.



TFM pays a royalty of two percent of net revenues under the ARMC, which totaled$25 millionin2015and$29 millionin both2014and2013.



The Tenke minerals district is located in the Southeast region of the DRC approximately 110 miles northwest of Lubumbashi and is accessible by paved roads and by rail. The deposits are sediment-hosted copper and cobalt









deposits with oxide, mixed oxide-sulfide and sulfide mineralization. The dominant oxide minerals are malachite, pseudomalachite and heterogenite. Important sulfide minerals consist of bornite, carrollite, chalcocite and chalcopyrite.



The Tenke minerals district contains an open-pit copper and cobalt mining complex, which commenced initial copper production in March 2009. TFM completed its second phase expansion project in early 2013, which included increasing mine, mill and processing capacity. Construction of a second sulphuric acid plant is under way, with completion expected in the first half of 2016. We continue to engage in exploration activities and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective minerals district at Tenke. Future development and expansion opportunities are being deferred pending improved market conditions.

The current equipment fleet includes three 17-cubic meter mass excavators, five 12-cubic meter front-end loaders, thirteen 7-cubic meter front-end loaders, thirty-six 91-metric ton haul trucks and six 80-metric ton haul trucks.



Copper and cobalt are recovered through an agitation-leach plant. Production from the Tenke minerals district totaled449 millionpounds of copper and35 millionpounds of cobalt in2015,447 millionpounds of copper and29 millionpounds of cobalt in2014, and462 millionpounds of copper and28 millionpounds of cobalt in2013.



The Tenke minerals district is located in a tropical region; however, temperatures are moderated by its higher altitudes. Weather in this region is characterized by a dry season and a wet season, each lasting about six months with average rainfall of 47 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is expected to be 1,520 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,110 meters above sea level. The Tenke deposits are covered by six exploitation permits totaling approximately 394,450 acres.



TFM has long-term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with La Société Nationale d’Electricité, the state-owned electric utility company serving the region. The results of a recent water exploration program, as well as the regional geological and hydro-geological conditions, indicate that adequate water is available during the expected life of the operation.





Smelting Facilities and Other Mining Properties

Atlantic Copper. Our wholly owned Atlantic Copper smelter and refinery is located on land concessions from the Huelva, Spain, port authorities, which are scheduled to expire in 2027.



The design capacity of the smelter is approximately 300,000 metric tons of copper per year, and the refinery has a capacity of 285,000 metric tons of copper per year. During2015, Atlantic Copper treated 1.05 million metric tons of concentrate and scrap, and produced 293,100 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 284,800 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery.



Following is a summary of Atlantic Copper's concentrate purchases from our copper mining operations and third parties for the years ended December 31:

201520142013North America copper mines23%21%13%South America mining3a2132Indonesia mining3816Third parties715039100%100%100%

a.The decrease in purchases from the South America mines, compared to the years 2014 and 2013, primarily reflects the impact of the November 2014 sale of the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines.



Atlantic Copper's major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately every eight years, with shorter-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. Atlantic Copper completed a 68-day major maintenance turnaround in 2013 and the next short-term maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2017.



PT Smelting. PT-FI’s COW required us to construct, or cause to be constructed, a smelter in Indonesia if we and the Indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically viable. In 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of PT Smelting, an Indonesian company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. PT Smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery. PT-FI owns 25 percent of PT Smelting, with the remainder owned by Mitsubishi









Materials Corporation (60.5 percent), Mitsubishi Corporation Unimetals Ltd. (9.5 percent) and JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation (5 percent).



PT-FI’s contract with PT Smelting requires PT-FI to supply 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements (at market rates subject to a minimum or maximum rate) necessary for PT Smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually on a priority basis. PT-FI may also sell copper concentrate to PT Smelting at market rates for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually.



During2015, PT Smelting treated 744,800 metric tons of concentrate and produced 199,700 metric tons of copper anode from its smelter and 198,400 metric tons of copper cathode from its refinery. PT Smelting resumed operations in September 2015, following a temporary suspension in July 2015, and operated at approximately 80 percent capacity until November 2015 when required repairs of an acid plant cooling tower that was damaged during the suspension were completed.



PT Smelting's maintenance turnarounds (which range from two weeks to a month to complete) typically are expected to occur approximately every two years, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. PT Smelting completed a 23-day maintenance turnaround during 2014, and the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for third-quarter 2016.



Miami Smelter. We own and operate a smelter at our Miami mining operation in Arizona. The smelter has been operating for approximately 100 years and has been upgraded numerous times during that period to implement new technologies, to improve production and to comply with air quality requirements. The Miami smelter is installing emission control equipment that will allow it to operate in compliance with recently adopted enhanced air quality standards (refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for further discussion).



The Miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our North America copper mines. Concentrate processed through the smelter totaled 686,700 metric tons in2015. In addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrate, the Miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our North America leaching operations (refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for further discussion).



Major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately three weeks to complete) typically occur approximately every 14 months for the Miami smelter, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. The Miami Smelter completed a major maintenance turnaround in third-quarter 2015, and the next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for fourth-quarter 2016.



Rod & Refining Operations. Our Rod & Refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in North America, including a refinery in El Paso, Texas; rod mills in El Paso, Texas, Norwich, Connecticut, and Miami, Arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in Bayway, New Jersey. We refine our copper anode production from our Miami smelter at our El Paso refinery. The El Paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at our Miami smelter. Our El Paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium.



Molybdenum Conversion Facilities. We process molybdenum concentrate at our conversion plants in the U.S. and Europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates and molybdenum disulfide. We operate molybdenum roasters in Sierrita, Arizona; Fort Madison, Iowa; and Rotterdam, the Netherlands, and we operate a molybdenum pressure-leach plant in Bagdad, Arizona. We also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in Stowmarket, United Kingdom.



Freeport Cobalt. In March 2013, we acquired a cobalt chemical refinery in Kokkola, Finland, and the related sales and marketing business. The acquisition provided direct end-market access for the cobalt hydroxide production at the Tenke minerals district. The joint venture operates under the name Freeport Cobalt, and we are the operator with an effective 56 percent ownership interest. The remaining effective ownership interest is held by our partners in TFM, including 24 percent by Lundin and 20 percent by Gécamines. The Kokkola refinery has an annual refining capacity of approximately 15,000 metric tons of cobalt, sufficient to refine the majority of the cobalt we produce in the Tenke minerals district.



Other North America Copper Mines. We also have five non-operating copper mines in North America – Ajo, Bisbee, Twin Buttes and Tohono in Arizona, and Cobre in New Mexico – that have been on care-and-maintenance status for









several years and would require new or updated environmental studies, new permits, and additional capital investment, which could be significant, to return them to operating status.





Mining Development Projects and Exploration

We have several projects and potential opportunities to expand production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. Our near-term major development projects include the underground development activities in Grasberg (refer to MD&A for further discussion). Considering the long-term nature and large size of our development projects, actual costs and timing could vary from estimates. We continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our mineral reserves.



Capital expenditures for mining operations totaled$3.3 billion(including$2.4 billionfor major projects) in2015,$4.0 billion(including$2.9 billionfor major projects) in2014and$3.8 billion(including$2.3 billionfor major projects) in2013. Capital expenditures for major projects during the three years ended December 31, 2015, were primarily associated with the expansion projects at Morenci and Cerro Verde, and underground development activities at Grasberg. Capital expenditures for major projects at mining operations in the year 2016 are expected to approximate$1.4 billionand are primarily associated with underground development activities at Grasberg and remaining costs for the Cerro Verde expansion.



PT-FI is advancing plans for the construction of new smelter capacity in Indonesia in parallel with completing negotiations on its COW and long-term operating rights. PT-FI has identified sites, and project definition studies and early engineering are being advanced. We are also engaged in discussions with potential partners for the project. The preliminary scope of the facilities involves smelting and refining capacity of one to two million metric tons per year of copper concentrate from the Grasberg mine.



We also have an additional long-term underground mine development project in the Grasberg minerals district for the Kucing Liar ore body, which lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the Grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. We expect to mine the Kucing Liar ore body using the block-cave method; aggregate capital cost estimates for development of the Kucing Liar ore body are projected to approximate $2.4 billion (which are expected to be made between 2019 and 2031). Additionally, our current mine development plans include approximately $5 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once the Grasberg open-pit operations cease. We expect substantially all of these expenditures to be made between 2018 and 2035.



Our mining exploration activities are generally near our existing mines, with a focus on opportunities to expand reserves and resources to support development of additional future production capacity in the large minerals districts where we currently operate. Exploration results continue to indicate opportunities for what we believe could be significant future potential reserve additions in North and South America, and in the Tenke minerals district. The drilling data in North America also indicates the potential for significantly expanded sulfide production. Drilling results and exploration modeling provide a long-term pipeline for future growth in reserves and production capacity in established minerals districts. Exploration spending associated with mining operations totaled$102 millionin 2015, $96 million in 2014 and $182 million in 2013. Exploration spending continues to be reduced from historical levels as a result of market conditions and is expected to approximate$52 millionfor the year 2016.





Sources and Availability of Energy, Natural Resources and Raw Materials

Our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. Energy represented17 percentof our2015consolidated copper production costs and included purchases of approximately250 milliongallons of diesel fuel;7,600gigawatt hours of electricity at our North America, South America and Africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our Indonesia mining operation);800 thousandmetric tons of coal for our coal power plant in Indonesia; and1million British thermal units (MMBtu) of natural gas at certain of our North America mines. Based on current cost estimates, we estimate energy will approximate20 percentof our consolidated copper production costs for 2016.



Our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. The loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. For a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.”











Sulphuric acid is used in the SX/EW process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulfur burners at the Safford and Tenke mines. Sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties. As further discussed in Item 1A. "Risk Factors," if production were to be curtailed at the Miami Smelter, we would be required to export concentrate rather than process it ourselves and to purchase sulphuric acid from third parties, thereby increasing our operating costs.





Community and Human Rights

We have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate and are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. We continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include:



•comprehensive job training programs

•basic education programs

•public health programs, including malaria control and HIV

•agricultural assistance programs

•small and medium enterprise development programs

•cultural promotion and preservation programs

•clean water and sanitation projects

•community infrastructure development

•charitable donations



In December 2000, we endorsed the joint U.S. State Department-British Foreign Office Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security (Voluntary Principles). We participated in developing these Voluntary Principles with other major natural resource companies and international human rights organizations and they are incorporated into our human rights policy.



We completed a corporate level human rights impact assessment in 2014, the results of which were used to evaluate our human rights program, including a review of our human rights policy. In February 2015, we updated our human rights policy to, among other things, reflect our commitment to integrating the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into our human rights program. We also participate in a multi-industry human rights working group to gain insight from peer companies and are integrating human rights due diligence into our business practices.



We believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and should help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. As part of our ongoing, annual commitment to sustainable community development, we have made significant investments in social programs, including in-kind support and administration, across our global operations. Over the last five years, these investments have averaged $180 million per year. Nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. Refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for further discussion.



South America. Cerro Verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. Following engagements with regional and local governments, civic leaders and development agencies, in 2006, Cerro Verde committed to support the costs for a new potable water treatment plant to serve Arequipa. In addition, an agreement was reached with the Peruvian government for development of a water storage and distribution network, which was financed by the Cerro Verde Civil Association (the Association). The Association manages contributions made by Cerro Verde for projects that focus on education, training, health, cultural preservation and basic infrastructure.



Cerro Verde reached an agreement with the Regional Government of Arequipa, the National Government, SEDAPAR and other local institutions to allow it to finance, engineer and construct a wastewater treatment plant for the city of Arequipa, which is being used to supplement existing water supplies to support Cerro Verde's concentrator expansion. Treating this water will also improve the regional water quality, enhance agriculture products grown in the area and reduce waterborne illnesses. In addition to these projects, Cerro Verde annually makes significant community development investments in the Arequipa region.



Indonesia. In 1996, PT-FI established the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development (the Partnership Fund) through which PT-FI has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education and economic development of the area. PT-FI has









committed through 2016 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operations through the Partnership Fund. PT-FI recognized$27 millionin2015,$31 millionin2014and$41 millionin2013for this commitment.



The Amungme and Kamoro Community Development Organization (Lembaga Pengembangan Masyarakat Amungme dan Kamoroor LPMAK) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the Partnership Fund. LPMAK is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local Amungme and Kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of PT-FI on each board. The Amungme and Kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations. In addition to the Partnership Fund, PT-FI annually makes significant investments in public health, education, community infrastructure and economic development.



Security Matters.Consistent with our COW in Indonesia and our commitment to protect our employees and property, we have taken steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. As part of its security program, PT-FI maintains its own internal security department. Both employees and contractors are unarmed and perform functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. The security department receives human rights training annually.



PT-FI’s share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $58 million for2015, $57 million for2014and $51 million for2013.



PT-FI, and all businesses and residents of Indonesia, rely on the Indonesian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. The Grasberg minerals district has been designated by the Indonesian government as one of Indonesia’s vital national assets. This designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. The Indonesian government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations.



From the outset of PT-FI’s operations, the Indonesian government has looked to PT-FI to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the Indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in Papua. PT-FI’s financial support for the Indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol PT-FI’s roads and secure its operating area. In addition, the provision of such support is consistent with PT-FI’s obligations under the COW, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights.



PT-FI’s share of support costs for the government-provided security was $21 million in2015, $27 million in2014and $25 million in2013. This supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police.



Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for further discussion of security risks in Indonesia.



Africa. TFM has committed to assist the communities living within its concession area in the Southeast region of the DRC. Initiatives include an integrated malaria control program; construction, renovation and building of local health facilities; construction and renovation of local schools; installation of over 115 clean water wells in rural villages as well as construction of urban water distribution systems; and economic development programs supporting development and training of local entrepreneurs, contractors and farmers. We have also made significant investments in infrastructure in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including upgrading a portion of a national road and the regional power generation and transmission systems.



Through the ARMC, TFM also contributes 0.3 percent of its net sales revenue to a community development fund to assist the local communities with development of local infrastructure and related services including health, education and agriculture. The TFM Social Community Fund is managed by a board of directors comprised of two local community representatives, one representative nominated by the provincial governor, four TFM representatives and an observer representative from Gecamines. A stakeholder forum comprised of 40 community leaders provides for increased community participation and input regarding project priorities, community needs, and









transparency of fund management. The TFM Social Community Fund contributions totaled$4 millionin each of the years in2015,2014and2013.



Security Matters. TFM maintains an unarmed internal security department composed of both employees and contractors. The national government also has assigned Mines Police to the TFM concession areas. The Mines Police are a division of the Congolese National Police and are responsible for maintaining security in mining concessions throughout the DRC. TFM provides food, housing, medical services, supervised transportation, non-lethal equipment and monetary allowances as well as direct payments to the government for the provision of the security assigned to the concession areas. The total cost to TFM for this support, including in-kind support, approximated $1 million in2015, $2 million in2014and $1 million in2013.



TFM also participates in monthly security coordination meetings with host country security personnel, other mining companies, non-governmental organizations and representatives from the United Nations to discuss security issues and concerns. As an outcome of the coordination meetings, TFM has partnered with MONUSCO (United Nations Stabilization Mission in the DRC) to conduct human rights training in the TFM concessions for host government security personnel, local representatives and TFM security employees.













Mining Production Data

Years Ended December 31,(FCX’s net interest in %)20152014201320122011COPPER(millions of recoverable pounds)North AmericaMorenci (85%)a902691564537522Bagdad (100%)210237216197194Safford (100%)202139146175151Sierrita (100%)189195171157177Miami (100%)4357616666Chino (100%)31425017114469Tyrone (100%)8494968376Other (100%)37643Total North America1,9471,6701,4311,3631,258South AmericaCerro Verde (53.56%)545500558595647El Abra (51%)324367343338274Candelaria/Ojos del Salado (80%)b—284422324385Total South America8691,1511,3231,2571,306IndonesiaGrasberg (90.64%)c752636915695846AfricaTenke Fungurume (56%)d449447462348281Consolidated4,0173,9044,1313,6633,691Less noncontrolling interests680725801723710Net3,3373,1793,3302,9402,981GOLD(thousands of recoverable ounces)North America (100%)a251271310South America (80%)b—7210183101Indonesia (90.64%)c1,2321,1301,1428621,272Consolidated1,2571,2141,2509581,383Less noncontrolling interests11512012798139Net1,1421,0941,1238601,244MOLYBDENUM(millions of recoverable pounds)Henderson (100%)2530303438Climax (100%)e2321197—North America copper mines (100%)a3733323635Cerro Verde (53.56%)71113810Consolidated9295948583Less noncontrolling interest35645Net8990888178COBALT(millions of contained pounds)Consolidated - Tenke Fungurume (56%)d3529282625Less noncontrolling interests1513121111Net2016161514

a.Amounts are net of Morenci’s 15 percent joint venture partner interest. As further discussed in Note18, we have entered into a definitive agreement to sell a 13 percent undivided interest in Morenci; the transaction is expected to close in mid-2016.

b.On November 3, 2014, we completed the sale of our 80 percent interests in the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines.

c.Amounts are net of Grasberg's joint venture partner interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement (refer to Note 3). Under the joint venture agreement, PT-FI's share of copper production was100 percentin2015,98 percentin2014,99 percentin2013, 100 percent in 2012  and 95 percent in 2011; PT-FI's share of gold production was 100 percent in 2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012, and 88 percent in 2011.

d.Effective March 26, 2012, FCX's effective ownership interest in TFM was prospectively reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent.

e.The Climax molybdenum mine began commercial operations in May 2012.











Mining Sales Data





Years Ended December 31,

(FCX’s net interest in %)20152014201320122011

COPPER(millions of recoverable pounds)

North America

Morenci (85%)a915680561532521

Bagdad (100%)222240212196201

Safford (100%)198142151175147

Sierrita (100%)196196170162175

Miami (100%)4660606859

Chino (100%)31924316813262

Tyrone (100%)8996948279

Other (100%)37643

Total North America1,9881,6641,4221,3511,247

South America

Cerro Verde (53.56%)544501560589657

El Abra (51%)327366341338276

Candelaria/Ojos del Salado (80%)b—268424318389

Total South America8711,1351,3251,2451,322

Indonesia

Grasberg (90.64%)c744664885716846

Africa

Tenke Fungurume (56%)d467425454336283

Consolidated sales from mines4,0703,8884,0863,6483,698

Less noncontrolling interests688715795717717

Net3,3823,1733,2912,9312,981

Consolidated sales from mines4,0703,8884,0863,6483,698

Purchased copper121125223125223

Total copper sales, including purchases4,1914,0134,3093,7733,921

Average realized price per pound$2.42$3.09$3.30$3.60$3.86



GOLD(thousands of recoverable ounces)

North America (100%)a23136137

South America (80%)b—6710282101

Indonesia (90.64%)c1,2241,1681,0969151,270

Consolidated sales from mines1,2471,2481,2041,0101,378

Less noncontrolling interests115123123102139

Net1,1321,1251,0819081,239

Average realized price per ounce$1,129$1,231$1,315$1,665$1,583



MOLYBDENUM(millions of recoverable pounds)

Consolidated sales from mines8995938379

Less noncontrolling interests45544

Net8590887975

Average realized price per pound$8.70$12.74$11.85$14.26$16.98



COBALT(millions of contained pounds)

Consolidated-Tenke Fungurume (56%)d3530252525

Less noncontrolling interests1513111110

Net2017141415

Average realized price per pound$8.21$9.66$8.02$7.83$9.99



a.Amounts are net of Morenci’s 15 percent joint venture partner interest. As further discussed in Note18, we have entered into a definitive agreement to sell a 13 percent undivided interest in Morenci; the transaction is expected to close in mid-2016.

b.On November 3, 2014, we completed the sale of our 80 percent interests in the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines.

c.Amounts are net of Grasberg's joint venture partner interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement (refer to Note 3). Under the joint venture agreement, PT-FI's share of copper sales was100 percentin2015,98 percentin2014,99 percentin2013,  100 percent in 2012 and 96 percent in 2011; PT-FI's share of gold sales was 100 percent in 2015, 2014, 2013 and 2012, and 88 percent in 2011.

d.Effective March 26, 2012, FCX's effective ownership interest in TFM was prospectively reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent.













Mineral Reserves



Our mineral reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. We conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. We revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies.



Estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves atDecember 31, 2015, were determined using long-term average prices of$2.00per pound for copper,$1,000per ounce for gold and$10per pound for molybdenum. For the three-year period endedDecember 31, 2015, LME spot copper prices averaged$2.97per pound, London PM gold prices averaged$1,276per ounce and the weekly average price for molybdenum quoted byMetals Weekaveraged$9.45per pound.



The recoverable proven and probable reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. Recoverable reserves are that part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.

Recoverable Proven and Probable Mineral ReservesEstimated at December 31, 2015Coppera(billion pounds)Gold(million ounces)Molybdenum(billion pounds)Silverb(million ounces)Cobaltb(billion pounds)North America33.50.32.3879.3—South America30.8—0.6785.2—Indonesiac28.026.8—106.7—Africa7.2———0.87Consolidated basisd99.527.13.05271.20.87Net equity intereste79.324.62.73221.60.49

a.Consolidated recoverable copper reserves include3.8 billionpounds in leach stockpiles and1.0 billionpounds in mill stockpiles (refer to “Mill and Leach Stockpiles” for further discussion).

b.Determined using long-term average prices of$15per ounce for silver and$10per pound for cobalt.

c.Recoverable proven and probable reserves from Indonesia reflect estimates of minerals that can be recovered through the end of 2041 (refer to Note13for discussion of PT-FI's COW).

d.Consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia. Refer to Notes3and18for further discussion of our joint ventures.

e.Net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. Refer to Note3for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries.











Recoverable Proven and Probable Mineral ReservesEstimated at December 31, 2015Proven ReservesProbable ReservesAverage Ore GradeAverage Ore GradeProcessingMillionCopperGoldMolySilverCobaltMillionCopperGoldMolySilverCobaltMethodmetric tons%g/t%g/t%metric tons%g/t%g/t%North AmericaMorenciMill6360.43—0.02——1160.40—0.02——Crushed leach3130.56————720.46————ROM leach1,8620.18————5750.16————BagdadMill9970.34—a0.021.45—1520.32—a0.021.36—ROM leach780.22————260.20————SaffordCrushed leach570.44————270.42————SierritaMill2,1350.24—a0.031.42—1840.19—a0.021.14—ChinoMill930.560.040.010.51—560.520.04—a0.47—ROM leach730.30————150.26————TyroneROM leach130.42—————a0.40————HendersonMill65——0.18——16——0.14——ClimaxMill155——0.16——23——0.08——CobrebMill160.53—————a0.53————ROM leach620.31————10.40————6,5551,263South AmericaCerro VerdeMill9250.39—0.021.61—2,7780.37—0.011.53—Crushed leach340.51————510.41————ROM leach140.23————540.22————El AbraCrushed leach2680.49————680.44————ROM leach470.19————160.21————1,2882,967IndonesiaDMLZMill680.940.77—4.60—3920.890.73—4.36—Grasberg open pitMill501.522.02—3.93—790.800.82—2.20—DOZMill390.570.68—2.42—770.550.70—2.30—Big GossanMill172.391.02—15.15—372.200.98—13.22—Grasberg Block CavebMill4441.200.96—3.73—5180.880.62—3.29—Kucing LiarbMill1441.361.15—7.59—2511.211.05—6.56—7621,354AfricaTenke FungurumeAgitation leach573.45———0.39422.85———0.35Total FCX - 100% Basis8,6625,626

a.Grade not shown because of rounding.

b.Undeveloped reserves that would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production.



The reserve table above and the tables on the following pages utilize the abbreviations described below:



•g/t – grams per metric ton

•Moly – Molybdenum

•ROM – Run of Mine











Recoverable Proven and Probable Mineral ReservesEstimated at December 31, 2015(continued)Proven andProbableAverage Ore GradeRecoveriesaProcessingMillionCopperGoldMolySilverCobaltCopperGoldMolySilverCobaltMethodmetric tons%g/t%g/t%%%%%%North AmericaMorenciMill7520.42—0.02——81.2—50.4——Crushed leach3850.54————78.5————ROM leach2,4370.18————43.3————BagdadMill1,1490.34—b0.021.43—86.259.170.849.3—ROM leach1040.21————24.6————SaffordCrushed leach840.43————63.9————SierritaMill2,3190.23—b0.031.40—83.259.979.949.3—ChinoMill1490.550.040.010.50—79.477.933.778.5—ROM leach880.29————39.4————TyroneROM leach130.42————68.4————HendersonMill81——0.17————84.3——ClimaxMill178——0.15————89.7——CobrecMill160.53————80.2————ROM leach630.31————49.5————7,818South AmericaCerro VerdeMill3,7030.37—0.011.55—86.3—54.344.7—Crushed leach850.45————79.9————ROM leach680.22————53.5————El AbraCrushed leach3360.48————58.2————ROM leach630.20————39.6————4,255IndonesiaDMLZMill4600.890.74—4.39—87.179.4—64.9—Grasberg open pitMill1291.081.29—2.87—85.282.0—44.2—DOZMill1160.560.69—2.34—86.278.0—64.9—Big GossanMill542.260.99—13.82—91.665.8—63.8—Grasberg Block CavecMill9621.030.78—3.50—84.464.7—57.2—Kucing LiarcMill3951.271.09—6.93—85.246.3—39.6—2,116AfricaTenke FungurumeAgitation leach993.19———0.3786.6———75.7Total FCX - 100% Basis14,288

a.Recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses.

b.Grade not shown because of rounding.

c.Undeveloped reserves that would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production.















Recoverable Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves

Estimated at December 31, 2015

(continued)

Recoverable Reserves

CopperGoldMolySilverCobalt

FCX’sProcessingbillionmillionbillionmillionbillion

InterestMethodlbs.ozs.lbs.ozs.lbs.

North America

Morenci85%Mill5.7—0.17——

Crushed leach3.6————

ROM leach4.1————

Bagdad100%Mill7.50.10.3826.1—

ROM leach0.1————

Safford100%Crushed leach0.5————

Sierrita100%Mill9.90.11.0451.3—

Chino100%Mill1.50.10.011.9—

ROM leach0.2————

Tyrone100%ROM leach0.1————

Henderson100%Mill——0.25——

Climax100%Mill——0.53——

Cobre100%Mill0.1————

ROM leach0.2————

33.50.32.3879.3—

Recoverable metal in stockpilesa2.1—0.02——

100% operations35.60.32.4079.3—

Consolidatedb33.50.32.3879.3—

Net equity interestc33.50.32.3879.3—

South America

Cerro Verde53.56%Mill26.2—0.6582.3—

Crushed leach0.7————

ROM leach0.2————

El Abra51%Crushed leach2.1————

ROM leach0.1————

29.3—0.6582.3—

Recoverable metal in stockpilesa1.5—0.022.9—

100% operations30.8—0.6785.2—

Consolidatedb30.8—0.6785.2—

Net equity interestc16.4—0.3545.6—

Indonesia

DMLZdMill7.98.7—42.2—

Grasberg open pitdMill2.64.4—5.3—

DOZdMill1.22.0—5.6—

Big GossandMill2.51.1—15.3—

Grasberg Block CavedMill18.415.6—61.9—

Kucing LiardMill9.46.4—34.9—

42.038.2—165.2—

Recoverable metal in stockpilesa0.10.1—0.2—

100% operations42.138.3—165.4—

Consolidatedb28.026.8—106.7—

Net equity interestc25.324.3—96.7—

Africa

Tenke Fungurume56%Agitation leach6.0———0.61

Recoverable metal in stockpilesa1.2———0.26

100% operations7.2———0.87

Consolidatedb7.2———0.87

Net equity interestc4.1———0.49



Total FCX –  100% basis115.738.63.07329.90.87

Total FCX –  Consolidated basisb99.527.13.05271.20.87

Total FCX –  Net equity interestc79.324.62.73221.60.49

a.Refer to "Mill and Leach Stockpiles" for additional information.

b.Consolidated reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia. Refer to Notes3and18for further discussion of our joint ventures.

c.Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. Refer to Note3for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries.

d.Our joint venture agreement with Rio Tinto provides that PT-FI will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021, calculated by reference to its proven and probable reserves as of December 31,1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash flow.











In defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a “variable cutoff grade” strategy. The objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. We use a "break-even cutoff grade" to define the in-situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. The break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production.



Our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. We value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. Copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. The calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. Our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade.



The table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as ofDecember 31, 2015:

Copper Equivalent Cutoff Grade (Percent)MolybdenumCutoff Grade(Percent)MillCrushed orAgitation LeachROMLeachMillNorth AmericaMorenci0.260.180.03—Bagdad0.20—0.06—Safford—0.12——Sierrita0.18———Chino0.24—0.08—Tyrone——0.10—Henderson———0.12Climax———0.05Cobre0.26—0.06—South AmericaCerro Verde0.170.190.14—El Abra—0.100.06—IndonesiaDMLZ0.81———Grasberg open pit0.25———DOZ0.88———Big Gossan1.88———Grasberg Block Cave0.78———Kucing Liar0.94———AfricaTenke Fungurume—1.37——











Drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. Drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. Drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit.



The following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type:

Average Drill Hole Spacing (in Meters)ProvenProbableMining UnitMillLeachMillLeachNorth AmericaMorenciOpen Pit8686122122BagdadOpen Pit8686122122SaffordOpen Pit—86—122SierritaOpen Pit73—104—MiamiOpen Pit—61—91ChinoOpen Pit438686122TyroneOpen Pit—86—86HendersonBlock Cave47—96—ClimaxOpen Pit61—91—CobreOpen Pit61619191South AmericaCerro VerdeOpen Pit5050100100El AbraOpen Pit—75—120IndonesiaDMLZBlock Cave16—58—Grasberg open pitOpen Pit35—75—DOZBlock Cave23—57—Big GossanOpen Stope12—36—Grasberg Block CaveBlock Cave34—81—Kucing LiarBlock Cave39—98—AfricaTenke FungurumeOpen Pit—50—100













Production Sequencing

The following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing our proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body and from related stockpiles. The chart also shows the term of PT-FI's COW. Production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. The sequencing dates shown in the chart below include development activity that results in metal production. The ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. In addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. Significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected below.



Mill and Leach Stockpiles

Mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from an ore body and are available for copper recovery. Mill stockpiles contain sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. Leach stockpiles contain oxide ores and certain secondary sulfide ores and recovery of metal is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities.



Because it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. The quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles.













Expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. The recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately.



Expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. Total copper recovery in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including processing methodology, processing variables, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. For newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 80 percent of total copper recovery may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years.



Processes and recovery rates are monitored regularly, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes.



Following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as ofDecember 31, 2015:RecoverableMillionAverageRecoveryCopperMetric TonsOre Grade (%)Rate (%)(billion pounds)Mill stockpilesCerro Verde1590.3281.80.9Grasberg minerals district140.4474.90.11731.0Leach stockpilesMorenci5,9820.242.20.7Bagdad4990.241.5—aSafford2130.4414.30.3Sierrita6500.1511.00.3Miami4980.392.90.1Chino1,6950.265.30.5Tyrone1,1210.282.30.2Cerro Verde3880.525.00.2El Abra6440.435.90.4Tenke Fungurume451.3190.91.211,7353.9Total FCX - 100% basis4.9Total FCX - Consolidated basisb4.8Total FCX - Net equity interestc3.5

a.Amounts not shown because of rounding.

b.Consolidated stockpiles represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia. Refer to Notes3and18for further discussion of our joint ventures.

c.Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. Refer to Note3for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries.





Mineralized Material

We hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. However, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. Mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. Such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. Estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of$2.20per pound for copper,$1,000per ounce for gold,$12per pound for molybdenum and $20 per ounce for silver.











Mineralized MaterialEstimated at December 31, 2015Milling MaterialLeaching MaterialTotal Mineralized MaterialMillionMillionMillionFCX’smetricCopperGoldMolySIlvermetricCoppermetricInteresttons%g/t%g/ttons%tonsNorth AmericaMorenci85%5980.28—0.02—9210.211,519Bagdad100%7460.27—a0.021.230.22749Safford100%1880.650.12—2.4600.31248Sierrita100%1,3700.19—a0.021.1——1,370Chino100%1800.470.030.010.4370.26217Tyrone100%—————110.4311Henderson100%78——0.14———78Climax100%337——0.13———337Cobre100%340.500.09—1.3——34Ajo100%4370.400.060.010.8——437Cochise/Bisbee100%—————2500.46250Lone Star100%—————6790.47679Sanchez100%—————1480.29148Tohono100%2200.72———2700.67490Twin Buttes100%730.62—0.046.4440.23117Christmas100%2010.390.05—a1.0——201South AmericaCerro Verde53.56%2500.35—0.011.4330.48283El Abra51%2,0240.450.020.011.41990.302,223IndonesiaGrasberg minerals district54.38%b2,2070.720.63—3.5——2,207AfricaTenke Fungurumec56%524.10———312.8883Kisanfuc95%492.48———473.1696Total FCX - 100% basis9,0442,73311,777Total FCX - Consolidated basisd8,0712,59510,666Total FCX - Net equity intereste6,8142,4669,280

a.Amounts not shown because of rounding.

b.FCX's interest in the Grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest ownership.

c.Stated tonnage also includes cobalt at Tenke Fungurume (0.31 percent) and Kisanfu (1.15 percent).

d.Consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for joint venture partner interests in the Morenci mine in North America and the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia. Refer to Notes3and18for further discussion of our joint ventures.

e.Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership. Refer to Note3for further discussion of our ownership in subsidiaries.











OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS



Through our wholly owned oil and gas subsidiary, FM O&G, our portfolio of oil and gas assets includes significant oil production facilities and growth potential in the Deepwater GOM, established oil production onshore and offshore California, large onshore natural gas resources in the Haynesville shale in Louisiana, natural gas production from the Madden area in central Wyoming, and a position in the Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous natural gas trend onshore in South Louisiana. For the year2015,88 percentof our oil and gas revenues, excluding the impact of derivative contracts, were from sales of oil and NGLs.



Revised Operating Plans

We are taking continuing actions to reduce oil and gas costs and capital expenditures. FM O&G is undertaking a near-term deferral of exploration and development expenditures by idling the three Deepwater GOM drillships it has under contract. Refer to MD&A for further discussion.



Acreage

AtDecember 31, 2015, we owned interests in oil and gas leases covering4.4 milliongross acres (2.5 millionacres net to our interest). Developed acres are acres spaced or assigned to productive wells and do not include undrilled acreage held by production under the terms of the lease. Undeveloped acres are acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil or gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves. The following table summarizes, by geographic area, the developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage in which we held interests atDecember 31, 2015:



DevelopedUndevelopedGross AcresNet AcresGross AcresNet AcresU.S.:Louisiana:Onshore388,39279,141105,25780,074Offshore328,014189,197655,874491,830Texas:Onshore16,8653,621209653Offshore28,80015,906——California:Onshore60,89860,40665,25940,847Offshore44,04939,618712712Wyoming78,00711,01831,96818,394Nevada——246,073246,073Other states1,324368181,342137,293946,349399,2751,286,6941,015,876Morocco——2,154,0141,120,087946,349399,2753,440,7082,135,963



As of December 31, 2015, 84 percent of our total net leasehold acreage is undeveloped. Many of our oil and gas leases require us to drill wells that are commercially productive, and if we are unsuccessful, we could lose our rights under such leases.



At December 31, 2015,24 percentof our total U.S. net undeveloped acres was covered by leases that expire from 2016 through 2018. As a result of declining crude oil prices, FM O&G’s current plans anticipate that the majority of expiring acreage will not be retained by drilling operations or other means.



Currently, FM O&G has a commitment to drill a second well in Morocco in 2016. However, FM O&G is actively negotiating with its partners to modify the work program, which, if successful, would result in changes in the timing, amount or type of future commitment. The exploration permits covering FM O&G's Morocco acreage expire at the end of2016; however, FM O&G has the ability, under certain circumstances, to extend the exploration permits through2019.



















Properties

Our oil and gas properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, including other mineral encumbrances and restrictions. We do not believe that any of these burdens materially interfere with our use of the properties in the operation of our business.



We believe that we have satisfactory title to or rights in all of our producing properties. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, we conduct minimal investigation of title at the time we acquire undeveloped properties. We conduct title investigations and receive title opinions of local counsel only before we commence drilling operations. We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our other assets. Although title to our properties is subject to encumbrances in certain cases, we believe that none of these burdens will materially detract from the value of our properties or from our interest therein or will materially interfere with our use in the operation of our business.



Gulf of Mexico.

Deepwater GOM.FM O&G has a large strategic position in the Deepwater GOM with significant current oil production, strong cash margins and existing infrastructure with excess production and handling capacity. FM O&G’s Deepwater GOM properties and activities are principally located in four focus areas, which we refer to as Atwater Valley, Green Canyon, Mississippi Canyon and Keathley Canyon.



Following is a summary of FM O&G's Deepwater GOM platforms atDecember 31, 2015:

Capacity per DayPlatformWorking InterestField LocationType of PlatformProduction CommencedWater Depth (feet)Oil (MBbls)Gas (MMcf)Holsteina100%Green Canyon Blocks 644, 645 and 688Truss Spar20044,300113142Horn Mountaina100%Mississippi Canyon Blocks 126 and 127Truss Spar20025,4007572Marlin Huba100%SeveralbTension Leg20003,20060235Lucius25.1%cKeathley Canyon Blocks 874, 875, 918 and 919Truss Spar20157,20080450Heidelberg12.5%Green Canyon Blocks 859, 903, 904 and 948Truss Spar2016d5,3008080Ram Powell31.0%Viosca Knoll Blocks 911 to 913 and 955 to 957Tension Leg19973,20070310Hoover33.3%SeveraleDeep Draft Caisson Vessel20004,800100325

a.We are the operator of the Holstein, Horn Mountain and Marlin Hub platforms.

b.The Marlin Hub is the production facility for the Marlin field (S/2 Viosca Knoll Block 871 and N/2 Viosca Knoll Block 915), the Dorado field (S/2 Viosca Knoll Block 915) and the King field (Mississippi Canyon Blocks 84, 85, and 129). The Marlin field currently produces via a combination of platform and subsea tie-back wells, while the Dorado and King fields currently produce exclusively via subsea wells and tie-back infrastructure.

c.FM O&G's consolidated subsidiary Plains Offshore Operations Inc. (Plains Offshore), holds a 20 percent working interest in the Lucius development. FM O&G's combined ownership in the Lucius development, including the 20 percent held by Plains Offshore, is 25.1 percent. Refer to Note2for further discussion of Plains Offshore.

d.In January 2016, first oil production commenced from three wells in the Heidelberg oil field.

e.The Hoover platform is located in Alaminos Canyon Block 25. The Hoover field is located in Alaminos Canyon Blocks 25 and 26.



FM O&G has a 100-percent interest in the Holstein Deep development, which is located in Green Canyon Block 643, west of the 100-percent owned Holstein platform, in 3,890 feet of water. Completion activities for the initial three-well subsea tieback development program are progressing, with first production expected in mid-2016.



FM O&G also owns working interests in several oil discoveries in the Atwater Valley focus area, including Vito and Power Nap. FM O&G has an 18.67 percent interest in Vito, which is a deep subsalt Miocene oil discovery made in











2009, located in 4,000 feet of water in the Mississippi Canyon area (Blocks 940, 941, 984 and 985) and a 50 percent interest in Power Nap, which is located in close proximity to Vito.



FM O&G's Deepwater GOM exploration portfolio consists of interests in 136 blocks containing 55 prospects in the Pliocene, Miocene and Lower Tertiary reservoirs.



GOM Shelf.The GOM Shelf properties are primarily located on the outer continental shelf in the shallow waters (less than 500 feet of water) of the GOM and onshore in the Gulf Coast area of Louisiana, with drilling depths not exceeding 15,000 feet considered to be traditional shelf prospects.



Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous.Prospects with drilling depths below the salt weld (generally at depths exceeding 25,000 feet) are considered Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous prospects. FM O&G is the operator and has a72 percentworking interest (an approximate49 percentnet revenue interest) in Highlander, located onshore in South Louisiana. In December 2015, gross rates from the Highlander well averaged44 MMcfper day (21 MMcfper day net to FM O&G).



California. FM O&G’s California assets provide an established oil production base with low-decline production profiles and long-lived reserves.



Onshore California.FM O&G's onshore properties are located in the Los Angeles Basin and San Joaquin Basin. FM O&G holds a 100 percent working interest in the majority of its onshore positions including the Inglewood, Las Cienegas, Montebello, Packard and San Vicente fields in the Los Angeles Basin, and the Cymric, Midway Sunset, South Belridge, and North Belridge fields in the San Joaquin Basin. The Los Angeles Basin properties are characterized by light crude oil (21 to 32 degree American Petroleum Institute (API) gravity), have well depths ranging from 2,000 feet to over 10,000 feet and include both primary production and secondary recovery using waterflood methods (whereby water is injected into the reservoir formation to displace residual oil), where producing wells have a high ratio of water produced compared to total liquids produced (high water cuts). The San Joaquin Basin properties are characterized by heavier oil (12 to 16 degree API gravity) and shallow wells (generally less than 2,000 feet) that require enhanced oil recovery techniques, including steam injection.



FM O&G also holds a 100 percent working interest in the Arroyo Grande Field located in San Luis Obispo County, which is characterized by heavier oil (12 to 16 degree API gravity) and well depths averaging 1,700 feet requiring continuous steam injection.



Offshore California.All of the offshore California properties are located in federal waters approximately three to seven miles offshore in the Santa Maria Basin. FM O&G holds a 69.3 percent working interest in the Point Arguello Unit, composed of the Hidalgo, Hermosa and Harvest platforms, and the various partnerships owning the related transportation, processing and marketing infrastructure. Since second-quarter 2015, production from Point Arguello platforms has been shut in following the shutdowns of a third-party operated pipeline system that transports oil to various California refineries. FM O&G also holds a 100 percent working interest in the Point Pedernales field, which includes the Irene platform, that is utilized to access the Federal Outer Continental Shelf Monterey Reservoir by extended reach directional wells and support facilities which lie within the onshore Lompoc field.



Haynesville. As of December 31, 2015, in the Haynesville shale, FM O&G has a non-operated interest in over 1,450 producing wells with an average working interest of 8.6 percent and leases covering 72,000 net acres. The Haynesville shale is characterized by dry gas production from the Jurassic-aged Haynesville shale formation in Louisiana and eastern Texas, and typical well depth is 10,500 feet. The area has historically been developed with horizontal wells more than 4,000 feet at a measured total depth of 16,000 feet.



Madden. FM O&G owns a non-operated 14 percent working interest in the Madden Deep Unit and Lost Cabin Gas Plant located in central Wyoming. The Madden Deep Unit is a federal unit operated by a third party and consists of acreage in the Wind River Basin. The Madden area is characterized by gas production from multiple stratigraphic horizons of the Lower Fort Union, Lance, Mesaverde and Cody sands and the Madison Dolomite. Production from the Madden Deep Unit is typically found at depths ranging from 5,500 to 25,000 feet.





Exploration and Development Activities

FM O&G has significant proved, probable and possible reserves, with valuable infrastructure and associated resources with attractive long-term production and development potential.











Since commencing development activities in 2014 at its three 100-percent-owned production platforms in the Deepwater GOM, FM O&G has drilled 14 wells in producing fields with positive results, including the King D-10 well in fourth-quarter 2015. Four of these wells have been brought on production, including the King D-12 well in November 2015. FM O&G plans to complete and place six additional wells on production in 2016.



Capital expenditures for our oil and gas operations totaled$3.0 billionin2015(including$2.5 billionincurred for Deepwater GOM and$0.2 billionfor the Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous natural gas trend),$3.2 billionfor the year2014(including $2.1 billion incurred for the Deepwater GOM and $0.7 billion for the Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous natural gas trend) and$1.45 billionfor the seven-month period endingDecember 31, 2013(including $0.4 billion incurred for Deepwater GOM and $0.2 billion for the Inboard Lower Tertiary/Cretaceous natural gas trend).



In response to market conditions, FM O&G is undertaking a near-term deferral of exploration and development expenditures by idling the three Deepwater GOM drillships it has under contract. FM O&G expects to incur idle rig costs associated with its drillship contracts totaling$0.6 billionin2016and$0.4 billionin 2017. Excluding amounts for idle rig costs, capital expenditures for oil and gas operations for the year2016are estimated to total$1.5 billion, with approximately85 percentof the capital budget expected to be directed to the GOM. Refer to MD&A for further discussion of FM O&G's current exploration and development activities.





Production and Sales Data

Following presents summary oil and gas production and sales data for the years endedDecember 31, 2015and2014, and the seven-month period endingDecember 31, 2013:

Years Ended December 31,Seven Months Ended20152014December 31, 2013GOMa,bOil (MBbls)22,16119,68111,364Natural gas (MMcf)35,878c28,70017,231NGLs (MBbls)2,2092,0271,049MBOE30,35026,49115,286CaliforniaOil (MBbls)12,93513,7327,977Natural gas (MMcf)2,154c2,368c1,318cNGLs (MBbls)16617197MBOE13,46014,2988,293Haynesville/Madden/OtherOil (MBbls)15822283Natural gas (MMcf)51,62642,36426,782NGLs (MBbls)503527MBOE8,8127,3184,574Eagle ForddOil (MBbls)—6,4817,206Natural gas (MMcf)—7,4108,844NGLs (MBbls)—9781,244MBOE—8,6949,924Total U.S. oil and gas operationsOil (MBbls)35,25440,11626,630Natural gas (MMcf)89,65880,84254,175NGLs (MBbls)2,4253,2112,417MBOE52,62256,80138,077Average cost per BOE:Production costse$17.14$18.00$15.18Production and ad valorem taxes1.452.081.96Cash production costsf$18.59$20.08$17.14

a.Includes properties in the Deepwater GOM and on the Shelf, including the Inboard Lower Tertiary /Cretaceous natural gas trend.

b.Horn Mountain represented 17 percent of our proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 2015. During 2015, production and sales from Horn Mountain totaled 3.2 MMBOE (consisting of 2.9 MMBbls of oil, 1.1 Bcf of natural gas and 0.1 MMBbls









of NGLs). No individual fields represented 15 percent or more of our proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 2014 and 2013.

c.Natural gas sales from GOM are net of fuel used in operations totaling 1,125 MMcf in 2015. Natural gas sales from California are net of fuel used in operations totaling 588 MMcf in 2015, 1,190 MMcf in 2014 and 780 MMcf for the seven-month period endingDecember 31, 2013.

d.In June 2014, we completed the sale of Eagle Ford.

e.Reflects costs incurred to operate and maintain wells and related equipment and facilities.

f.Refer to MD&A for further discussion of cash production costs per BOE and for a reconciliation to production costs reported in our consolidated financial statements.





Oil and Gas Reserves

All of our estimated proved and probable reserves are based upon reserve reports prepared by Netherland, Sewell, & Associates, Inc. (NSAI) and Ryder Scott Company, L.P. (Ryder Scott), independent petroleum engineering firms. A copy of the independent petroleum engineering firms' reserve reports are filed as exhibits to this annual report on Form 10-K. Our reserve estimates are prepared in accordance with guidelines established by the SEC as prescribed by Regulation S-X, Rule 4-10. FM O&G's technical staff estimates, with reasonable certainty, the economically producible oil and gas. The practices for estimating hydrocarbons in place include, but are not limited to, mapping, seismic interpretation of two-dimensional and/or three-dimensional data, core analysis, mechanical properties of formations, thermal maturity, well logs of existing penetrations, correlation of known penetrations, decline curve analysis of producing locations with significant production history, well testing, static bottom hole testing, flowing bottom hole pressure analysis and pressure and rate transient analysis.



Internal Control and Qualifications of Third Party Engineers and Internal Staff.



The internal reservoir engineering staff are supervised by FM O&G's Vice President of Engineering, who has 39 years of technical experience in petroleum engineering and reservoir evaluation and analysis. This individual directs the activities of our internal reservoir engineering staff for the internal reserve estimation process and also to provide the appropriate data to NSAI and Ryder Scott for the year-end oil and gas reserves estimation process. The preparation of proved oil and gas reserve estimates are completed in accordance with our internal control procedures. These procedures, which are intended to ensure reliability of reserve estimations, include (i) the review and verification of historical production data; (ii) the review by FMO&G’s Vice President of Engineering of annually reported proved reserves, including the review of significant reserve changes and new proved undeveloped (PUD) reserves additions; (iii) the direct reporting responsibilities by FM O&G’s Vice President of Engineering to FM O&G’s President and Chief Operating Officer; (iv) the verification of property ownership by FM O&G’s land department; and (v) no employee’s compensation is tied to the amount of reserves reported.



Proved Reserves.Our proved reserve volumes have been determined in accordance with SEC guidelines, which require the use of an average price, calculated as the twelve-month historical average of the first-day-of-the-month historical reference price as adjusted for location and quality differentials, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions and the impact of derivatives. Our reference prices for reserve determination are the WTI spot price for crude oil and the Henry Hub price for natural gas, which were$50.28per barrel of oil and$2.59per MMBtu of natural gas atDecember 31, 2015. These prices are held constant throughout the life of the oil and gas properties, except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including the use of fixed and determinable contractual escalations. In accordance with the guidelines and









excluding the impact of derivative instruments, the average realized prices used in our reserve reports as ofDecember 31, 2015, were$47.80per barrel of oil and$2.55per Mcf of natural gas.



The scope and results of procedures employed by NSAI and Ryder Scott are summarized in their reserve reports. For purposes of reserve estimation, we and the independent petroleum engineers use technical and economic data including well logs, geologic maps, seismic data, well test data, production data, historical price and cost information, and property ownership interests. Our reserves have been estimated using deterministic methods. Standard engineering and geoscience methods were used, or a combination of methods, including performance analysis, volumetric analysis and analogy, which we and the independent petroleum engineers considered to be appropriate and necessary to categorize and estimate reserves in accordance with SEC definitions and regulations. A significant portion of these reserves are for undeveloped locations and are based on estimates of reserve volumes and recovery efficiencies along with analogy to properties with similar geologic and reservoir characteristics. Because these estimates depend on many assumptions, any or all of which may differ substantially from actual results, reserve estimates may differ from the quantities of oil and gas that FM O&G ultimately recovers.



Proved reserves represent quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. The term “reasonable certainty” implies a high degree of confidence that the quantities of oil and gas actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate.

The following table presents our estimated proved oil and gas reserves as ofDecember 31, 2015, all of which are located in the U.S.:

Proved Oil and Gas ReservesEstimated at December 31, 2015OilaGasTotal(MMBbls)(Bcf)(MMBOE)Proved Developed:GOM5911678California691271Haynesville/Madden/Other111720129245169Proved Undeveloped:GOM652970California13—13782983Total Proved Reserves207274252

a.  Includes9MMBbls of NGL proved reserves, consisting of6MMBbls of proved developed and3MMBbls of proved undeveloped.



AtDecember 31, 2015, we have an estimated total proved reserve life of 4.7 years and a proved developed reserve life of 3.2 years.



AtDecember 31, 2015, total proved oil and gas reserves were252MMBOE, including83MMBOE of PUD reserves. With the exception of one planned sidetrack development well in one of our Deepwater GOM properties that cannot be executed until the current producing well depletes, 98 percent of our PUD reserves are scheduled for development within five years, and $1.6 billion (or 97 percent) of our estimated future PUD capital is associated with the development of those reserves.



Total estimated PUD reserves of 83 MMBOE atDecember 31, 2015, decreased from estimated PUD reserves of 144 MMBOE atDecember 31, 2014, reflecting downward revisions of 72 MMBOE primarily related to lower oil and gas price realizations. These revisions were partly offset by increases of 11 MMBOE primarily associated with the continued development of our Deepwater GOM properties.



At December 31, 2014, FM O&G had 1,176 PUD locations, including 132 injector wells, of which 122 PUD locations (with associated proved reserves of 28 MMBOE) were scheduled to be drilled during 2015. During 2015, FM O&G invested $0.6 billion to drill and complete 35 PUD locations, which resulted in converting 1 MMBOE from PUD reserves to proved developed reserves.  Of the remaining 87 PUD locations scheduled to be drilled in 2015, 81 locations (with associated proved reserves of 3 MMBOE) were eliminated based on the current price environment,









4 locations (with associated proved reserves of 17 MMBOE) were drilled and are expected to be completed in 2016 and 2017, and 2 locations (with associated proved reserves of 7 MMBOE) were delayed to future periods.



At December 31, 2015, FM O&G had 186 PUD locations, including 4 injector wells. During 2016, 33 of these PUD locations (including 2 injector wells) with associated proved reserves of 35 MMBOE are scheduled to be developed.



During2015, FM O&G participated in37gross exploratory wells, of which 33 were successful, and26gross development wells, of which 24 were successful (refer to "Drilling Activities").



The following table reflects the present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes from the production and sale of our estimated proved reserves reconciled to the standardized measure of discounted net cash flows (standardized measure) atDecember 31, 2015(in millions):

Estimated undiscounted future net cash flows before income taxes$1,638Present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes (PV-10)a,b$1,392Discounted future income taxesc—Standardized measure (refer to Note 21)$1,392

a.  In accordance with SEC guidelines, estimates of future net cash flows from our proved reserves and the present value thereof are made using the twelve-month average of the first-day-of-the-month historical reference prices as adjusted for location and quality differentials. Refer to discussion above for pricing used in our reserve reports at December 31, 2015.

b.  The present value of estimated future net cash flows before income taxes (PV-10) is not considered a U.S. generally accepted accounting principle (GAAP) financial measure. We believe that our PV-10 presentation is an important measure and useful to our investors because it presents the discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved reserves before taking into account the related future income taxes, as such taxes may differ among companies because of differences in the amounts and timing of deductible basis, net operating loss carryforwards and other factors. We believe investors use our PV-10 as a basis for comparison of the relative size and value of our proved reserves to the reserve estimates of other companies. PV-10 is not a measure of financial or operating performance under U.S. GAAP and is not intended to represent the current market value of our estimated oil and gas reserves. PV-10 should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows as defined under U.S. GAAP.

c.  Future tax deductions are expected to be sufficient to fully offset future taxable income, resulting in no future income tax obligation atDecember 31, 2015.



Refer to Note21for further discussion of our proved reserves.



Probable Reserves.All of our probable oil and gas reserves atDecember 31, 2015, are based upon reserve reports prepared by the independent petroleum engineering firm of NSAI. Probable reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves, but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered. In addition to the uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved reserves, probable reserves may be assigned to areas where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonably certain criterion. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir. Probable reserve estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves. Undeveloped reserves that meet the reasonably certain, economic and other requirements to be classified as proved undeveloped, except that they are not expected to be developed within five years, are classified as probable reserves.











The following table presents our estimated probable oil and gas reserves atDecember 31, 2015:

Probable Oil and Gas ReservesEstimated at December 31, 2015OilaGasTotal(MMBbls)(Bcf)(MMBOE)Probable Developedb:GOM204527California5—5254532Probable Undeveloped:GOM652970California27227923197Total Probable Reserves11776129

a.  Includes5MMBbls of NGL probable reserves, consisting of2MMBbls of probable developed and3MMBbls of probable undeveloped.

b.  Reflects reserves associated with incremental recovery from existing production/injection wells that require minimal to no future development costs and reserves associated with work performed on existing producers/injectors that do not meet the reasonable certainty requirements to be classified as proved reserves.





Drilling Activities

The following table provides the total number of wells that we drilled during the years endedDecember 31, 2015and2014, and the seven-month period endingDecember 31, 2013:

Years Ended December 31,Seven Months Ended20152014December 31, 2013GrossNetGrossNetGrossNetExploratoryProductive:Oil2125214035Gas315212252Dry431071137956306638DevelopmentProductive:Oil731841747166Gas1727510238Dry222—1126726118495756316317214161113



In addition to the wells drilled, there were 9 gross exploratory and 19 gross development wells (5 net exploratory and 7 net development wells) in progress atDecember 31, 2015.



Productive Wells

We had working interests in 3,060 gross (2,976 net) active producing oil wells and 1,759 gross (213 net) active producing natural gas wells atDecember 31, 2015; 3,069 gross (2,991 net) active producing oil wells and 1,710 gross (211 net) active producing natural gas wells atDecember 31, 2014; and 3,310 gross (3,153 net) active producing oil wells and 1,651 gross (238 net) active producing natural gas wells atDecember 31, 2013. One or more completions in the same well bore are considered one well. If any well in which one of the multiple completions is an oil completion, such well is classified as an oil well. AtDecember 31, 2015, we owned interests in five gross wells containing multiple completions.













