Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties.



All of our periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, through our website, www.fcx.com, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports. These reports and amendments are available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material to the SEC.



References to “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) and its consolidated subsidiaries. References to “Notes” refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included herein (refer to Item 8), and references to “MD&A” refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included herein (refer to Item 7).



PROPOSED ACQUISTIONS



In December 2012, FCX announced definitive merger agreements to acquire, in separate transactions, Plains Exploration & Production Company (PXP) and McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR). Completion of each transaction is subject to receipt of PXP and MMR shareholder approval of their respective transactions, regulatory approvals (including United States (U.S.) antitrust clearance under the Hart-Scott Rodino Act) and other customary conditions. On December 26, 2012, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission granted early termination of the Hart-Scott Rodino waiting period with respect to both transactions. The PXP transaction is not conditioned on the closing of the MMR transaction, and the MMR transaction is not conditioned on the closing of the PXP transaction. PXP and MMR shareholder meetings to approve the respective transactions will be scheduled upon the effectiveness of the respective registration statements filed with the SEC. The transactions are expected to close in second-quarter 2013, subject to satisfaction of all conditions to closing.



Additionally in January 2013, FCX, through a newly formed joint venture, entered into a definitive agreement to acquire a cobalt chemical refinery in Kokkola, Finland, and the related sales and marketing business. The acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, and is expected to close in second-quarter 2013.



The information contained in this Form 10-K does not reflect the impact of us acquiring PXP, MMR or the cobalt chemical business. Refer to Notes1and20for further discussion of these proposed acquisitions.



GENERAL



We are a leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona, and incorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware on November 10, 1987. We are one of the world’s largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in terms of reserves and production. Our portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, significant mining operations in North and South America, and the Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The Grasberg minerals district contains one of the largest copper and gold reserves in the world based on the latest available reserve data provided by third-party industry consultants.



We have significant reserves, resources and future development opportunities within our portfolio of assets. AtDecember 31, 2012, consolidated recoverable proven and probable reserves totaled116.5 billionpounds of copper,32.5 millionounces of gold,3.42 billionpounds of molybdenum,321.4 millionounces of silver and0.84 billionpounds of cobalt. Approximately33 percentof our copper reserves are in North America,33 percentare in South America,27 percentare in Indonesia and7 percentare in Africa. Approximately95 percentof our gold reserves are in Indonesia, with our remaining gold reserves primarily in South America. Approximately79 percentof our molybdenum reserves are in North America, with our remaining molybdenum reserves in South America. Refer to “Ore Reserves” for further discussion.











In North America, we currently operate seven copper mines – Morenci, Bagdad, Safford, Sierrita and Miami in Arizona, and Tyrone and Chino in New Mexico, and two molybdenum mines – Henderson and Climax in Colorado. Certain of our North America copper mines (Sierrita, Bagdad, Morenci and Chino) also produce molybdenum concentrates.



In South America, we operate four copper mines – Cerro Verde in Peru, and El Abra, Candelaria and Ojos del Salado in Chile. In addition to copper, the Cerro Verde mine also produces molybdenum concentrates, and the Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines produce gold and silver.



In Indonesia, PT Freeport Indonesia operates the mines in the Grasberg minerals district. In addition to copper, the Grasberg minerals district also produces significant quantities of gold and silver.



In Africa, Tenke Fungurume Mining S.A.R.L. (TFM) operates the mines in the Tenke Fungurume minerals district (the Tenke mines). In addition to copper, Tenke produces cobalt hydroxide.



A summary of our consolidated copper, gold and molybdenum production for the year2012by geographic location follows:



CopperGoldMolybdenumNorth America37%1%91%aSouth America34%9%9%Indonesia19%90%N/AAfrica10%N/AN/A

a. For the year2012,53 percentof our consolidated molybdenum production in North America was from the Henderson and Climax primary molybdenum mines. The Climax molybdenum mine began commercial production in May 2012.



Refer to "Production Data" for further information.





The locations of our operating mines are shown on the map below. For information about our operating segments and financial data by geographic area refer to Note17.













The diagram below shows our ownership interest in our operating mines atDecember 31, 2012.







COPPER, GOLD AND MOLYBDENUM



A brief discussion of our primary metals appears below. For further discussion of historical market prices of these metals refer to MD&A.



Copper

Copper is an internationally traded commodity, and its prices are determined by the major metals exchanges – the London Metal Exchange (LME), New York Mercantile Exchange (COMEX) and Shanghai Futures Exchange (SHFE). Prices on these exchanges generally reflect the worldwide balance of copper supply and demand, and can be volatile and cyclical. During2012, LME spot copper prices ranged from a low of$3.29per pound to a high of$3.93per pound, averaged$3.61per pound and closed at$3.59per pound onDecember 31, 2012.



In general, demand for copper reflects the rate of underlying world economic growth, particularly in industrial production and construction. According to Wood Mackenzie, a widely followed independent metals market consultant, copper’s end-use markets (and their estimated shares of total consumption) are:

Electrical applications34%Construction31%Industrial machinery13%Transportation13%Consumer products9%



Gold

Gold is used for jewelry, coinage and bullion as well as various industrial and electronic applications. Gold can be readily sold on numerous markets throughout the world. Benchmark prices are generally based on London Bullion Market Association (London) quotations. During2012, London PM gold prices ranged from a low of$1,540per ounce to a high of$1,792per ounce, averaged$1,669per ounce and closed at$1,658per ounce onDecember 31, 2012.



Molybdenum

Molybdenum is a key alloying element in steel and the raw material for several chemical-grade products used in catalysts, lubrication, smoke suppression, corrosion inhibition and pigmentation. Molybdenum, as a high-purity metal, is also used in electronics such as flat-panel displays and in super alloys used in aerospace. Molybdenum’s









end-use markets (and their estimated shares of total consumption) according to the International Molybdenum Association are:

Construction steel40%Stainless steel20%Chemicals14%Tool and high-speed steel10%Cast iron7%Molybdenum metal5%Superalloys4%



Reference prices for molybdenum are available in several publications, includingMetals Week,Ryan’s NotesandMetal Bulletin. During2012, the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted byMetals Weekranged from a low of$10.90per pound to a high of$14.80per pound, averaged$12.74per pound and was$11.60per pound onDecember 31, 2012.





PRODUCTS AND SALES



FCX’s consolidated revenues for2012primarily included sales of copper (79 percent), gold (10 percent) and molybdenum (7 percent). PT Freeport Indonesia’s sales to PT Smelting (PT Freeport Indonesia's 25 percent owned copper smelter and refinery in Indonesia - refer to "Smelting Facilities" for further discussion) represented11 percentof our consolidated revenues in2012and2011, and12 percentin2010. No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of our consolidated revenues in any of the past three years.



Refer to Note17for a summary of our consolidated revenues and operating income by business segment and geographic area.



Copper Products

We are one of the world’s leading producers of copper concentrate, cathode and continuous cast copper rod. During2012,46 percentof our mined copper was sold in concentrate,28 percentas cathode and26 percentas rod from our North America operations.



Our copper ores are generally processed either by smelting and refining or by solution extraction and electrowinning (SX/EW). Before being subject to the smelting and refining process, ore is crushed and treated to produce a copper concentrate with copper content of approximately 20 to 30 percent. Copper concentrate is then smelted (i.e., subjected to extreme heat) to produce copper anodes, which weigh between 800 and 900 pounds each and have an average copper content of 99.5 percent. The anodes are further treated by electrolytic refining to produce copper cathodes, which weigh between 100 and 350 pounds each and have an average copper content of 99.99 percent. Our copper cathodes are used as the raw material input for copper rod, brass mill products and for other uses. For ore subject to the SX/EW process, copper is extracted from the ore by dissolving it with a weak sulphuric acid solution. The copper content of the solution is increased in two additional solution-extraction stages and then the copper-bearing solution undergoes an electrowinning process to produce cathode that is 99.99 percent copper.



Copper Concentrate.  We produce copper concentrate at eight of our mines, of which PT Freeport Indonesia is our largest producer. In North America, copper concentrate is produced at our Morenci, Bagdad, Sierrita and Chino mines, and is generally shipped to our Miami smelter in Arizona. In South America, we produce copper concentrate at our Cerro Verde, Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines.



Copper Cathode.  We produce copper cathode at our electrolytic refinery located in El Paso, Texas, and at 10 of our mines. In North America, SX/EW cathode is produced from our Morenci, Bagdad, Safford, Sierrita, Miami, Tyrone and Chino mines; in South America from our Cerro Verde and El Abra mines; and from our Tenke mines in Africa.Atlantic Copper S.L.U. (Atlantic Copper, our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit in Spain - refer to "Smelting Facilities" for further discussion) and PT Smelting also produce copper cathode.



Continuous Cast Copper Rod.  We manufacture continuous cast copper rod at our facilities in El Paso, Texas; Norwich, Connecticut; and Miami, Arizona, primarily using copper cathode produced at our North America copper mines.











Other Copper Products.  We produce specialty copper products at our Bayway operations in Elizabeth, New Jersey. These products include specialty copper alloys in the forms of rod, bar and strip. We manufacture electrode wire for use in welding steel cans at our Norwich, Connecticut, and El Paso, Texas, facilities. We also produce copper sulfate pentahydrate for use in agricultural and industrial applications at our facility in Sierrita, Arizona. These facilities primarily use copper cathode produced at our North America mines to manufacture their end products.



Copper Sales

North America.  The majority of the copper produced at our North America copper mines and refined in our El Paso, Texas, refinery is consumed at our rod plants. The remainder of our North America copper production is sold in the form of copper cathode or copper concentrate under U.S. dollar-denominated annual contracts. Cathode and rod contract prices are generally based on the prevailing COMEX monthly average spot price for the month of shipment and include a premium. Generally, copper rod is sold to wire and cable manufacturers, while cathode is sold to rod, brass or tube fabricators. Additionally, during2012six percent of our North America mines' copper sales volumes were shipped to Atlantic Copper.



South America.Production from our South America mines is sold as copper concentrate or copper cathode under U.S. dollar-denominated, annual and multi-year contracts. Our South America mines generally sell approximately 60 to 70 percent of their copper production in concentrate and the rest as cathode. During2012, 15 percent of our South America mines' copper sales volumes were shipped to Atlantic Copper.



Substantially all of South America’s copper concentrate and cathode sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted LME monthly average spot copper prices. Revenues from South America’s concentrate sales are recorded net of treatment and refining charges (i.e.,fees paid to smelters and refiners that are generally negotiated annually), including any applicable price participation charges that are based on the market price of copper. In addition, because a portion of the metals contained in copper concentrates is unrecoverable from the smelting process, revenues from South America’s concentrate sales are also recorded net of allowances for unrecoverable metals, which are a negotiated term of the contracts and vary by customer.



Indonesia.PT Freeport Indonesia sells its production in the form of copper concentrate, which contains significant quantities of gold and silver, under U.S. dollar-denominated, long-term contracts.  PT Freeport Indonesia also sells a small amount of copper concentrates in the spot market.



A summary of PT Freeport Indonesia’s aggregate percentage concentrate sales to PT Smelting, Atlantic Copper and to third parties for the last three years follows:

201220112010PT Smelting52%44%36%Atlantic Copper11%10%21%Third parties37%46%43%100%100%100%



Substantially all of PT Freeport Indonesia's concentrate sales contracts provide final copper pricing in a specified future month (generally one to four months from the shipment date) primarily based on quoted LME monthly average spot copper prices. Revenues from PT Freeport Indonesia's concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties, treatment and refining charges, and allowances for unrecoverable metals.



Africa.  TFM sells its production in the form of copper cathode under U.S. dollar-denominated contracts. Substantially all of TFM's cathode sales provide final copper pricing in the month after the shipment date based on quoted LME monthly average spot copper prices. Revenues from TFM's cathode sales are recorded net of royalties and also include adjustments for point-of-sale transportation costs that are negotiated in customer contracts.



Europe.Atlantic Copper sells copper cathode directly to rod and brass mills, primarily located in Europe. Atlantic Copper has occasionally sold copper cathode to merchants. Copper cathode is generally sold under annual contracts and priced based on the LME monthly average spot price for the month of arrival at the buyer’s facilities.



Our copper mining operations provide Atlantic Copper with at least half of its concentrate requirements at market prices.









Following is a summary of Atlantic Copper's concentrate purchases from our copper mining operations and third parties for the last three years:

201220112010North America copper mines16%2%—%South America mining31%30%25%Indonesia mining10%17%28%Third parties43%51%47%100%100%100%



Gold Products and Sales

We also produce gold, primarily from the Grasberg minerals district. Gold is primarily sold as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes, which are a product of the smelting and refining process. Gold generally is priced at the average London price for a specified month near the month of shipment. Revenues from gold sold as a component of our copper concentrate are recorded net of treatment and refining charges. Revenues from gold sold in slimes are recorded net of refining charges.



Molybdenum Products and Sales

We are the world’s largest producer of molybdenum and molybdenum-based chemicals. In addition to production from our Henderson and Climax molybdenum mines, we produce molybdenum concentrate at certain of our North America copper mines, and at our Cerro Verde copper mine in Peru.



The majority of our molybdenum concentrates are processed in our own conversion facilities. Technical-grade oxide is produced from molybdenum concentrates in Sierrita, Arizona; Fort Madison, Iowa; and Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Ferromolybdenum is produced from technical-grade oxide in Stowmarket, United Kingdom, through a metallothermic reduction process. High-quality molybdenum concentrates are converted into molybdenum chemicals at Fort Madison and Rotterdam. Molybdenum generally is priced based on the averageMetals Weekprice for the month prior to the month of shipment.



Cobalt, Silver and Other Products and Sales

We produce cobalt hydroxide at the Tenke mines. Cobalt hydroxide is priced at a discount to the average monthly low price published byMetal Bulletinfor a specified month near the month of shipment. We produce silver as a component of our copper concentrate or in slimes. Silver generally is priced at the average London Bullion Market Association price for a specified month near the month of shipment. Sales of cobalt hydroxide, silver and other

metals, such as rhenium and magnetite, do not represent a significant component of our total consolidated revenues.





MINES



Following are maps and descriptions of our mining operations in North America (including both copper and molybdenum operations), South America, Indonesia and Africa.



North America

In the U.S., most of the land occupied by our copper and molybdenum mines, concentrators, SX/EW facilities, smelter, refinery, rod mills, molybdenum roasters and processing facilities is generally owned by us or is located on unpatented mining claims owned by us. Certain portions of our Bagdad, Sierrita, Miami, Tyrone, Chino, Cobre, Henderson and Climax operations are located on government-owned land and are operated under a Mine Plan of Operations or other use permit. Various federal and state permits or leases on government land are held for purposes incidental to mine operations.











Morenci





We own an 85 percent undivided interest in Morenci, with the remaining 15 percent owned by affiliates of Sumitomo Corporation. Each partner takes in kind its share of Morenci’s production.



Morenci is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in continuous operation since 1939 and previously was mined through underground workings. Morenci is located in Greenlee County, Arizona, approximately 50 miles northeast of Safford on U.S. Highway 191. The site is accessible by a paved highway and a railway spur.



The Morenci mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper mineral is chrysocolla. Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral with chalcopyrite as the dominant primary copper sulfide.



The Morenci operation consists of a 50,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator, that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates; a 68,000 metric ton-per-day crushed-ore leach pad and stacking system; a low-grade run-of-mine (ROM) leaching system; four SX plants; and three EW tank houses that produce copper cathode. Total EW tank house capacity is approximately 900 million pounds of copper per year. Morenci’s concentrate leach, direct-electrowinning facility was commissioned in third-quarter 2007 and processed copper concentrate until early 2009 when it was placed on care-and-maintenance status. The available mining fleet consists of one hundred and three 236-metric ton and nine 363-metric ton haul trucks loaded by 12 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 47 to 57 cubic meters, which are capable of moving over 800,000 metric tons of material per day.



During 2011, we completed the ramp up of Morenci's mining rates to 635,000 metric tons of ore per day and milling rates to approximately 50,000 metric tons of ore per day. We are currently engaged in a project to expand mining and milling capacity at Morenci to process additional sulfide ore identified through exploratory drilling. The project is targeting incremental annual production of approximately 225 million pounds of copper in 2014 (an approximate 40 percent increase from 2012) through increases in mining rates to815,000metric tons of ore per day and milling rates to 115,000 metric tons of ore per day. Refer to “Development Projects and Exploration” for further discussion.



Morenci’s production, including our joint venture partner’s share, totaled632 millionpounds of copper and3 millionpounds of molybdenum in2012,614 millionpounds of copper and2 millionpounds of molybdenum in2011and514 millionpounds of copper in2010.



Morenci is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 13 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 840 meters above sea level. The Morenci operation encompasses approximately 64,750 acres, comprising approximately 50,800 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, approximately 10,900 acres of unpatented mining claims and approximately 3,050 acres of land held by state or federal permits, easements and rights-of-way.



The Morenci operation's electrical power is primarily sourced from Tucson Electric Power Company, Arizona Public Service Company and the Luna Energy facility (in which we own a one-third interest) in Deming, New Mexico. Although we believe the Morenci operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the Morenci operation. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion.









Bagdad





Our wholly owned Bagdad mine is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in Yavapai County in west-central Arizona. It is approximately 60 miles west of Prescott and 100 miles northwest of Phoenix. The property can be reached by Arizona Highway 96, which ends at the town of Bagdad. The closest railroad is at Hillside, Arizona, approximately 24 miles southeast on Arizona Highway 96. The open-pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was conducted through underground workings.



The Bagdad mine is a porphyry copper deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. Chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic minerals in the mine. Chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite and azurite.



The Bagdad operation consists of a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, an SX/EW plant that can produce up to 25 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by low-grade stockpile leaching, and a pressure leach plant to process molybdenum concentrates. The available mining fleet consists of thirty 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 40 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving over 200,000 metric tons of material per day.



Bagdad’s production totaled197 millionpounds of copper and10 millionpounds of molybdenum in2012,194 millionpounds of copper and10 millionpounds of molybdenum in2011, and203 millionpounds of copper and7 millionpounds of molybdenum in2010.



Bagdad is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 310 meters above sea level. The Bagdad operation encompasses approximately 21,750 acres, comprising approximately 21,150 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and approximately 600 acres of unpatented mining claims.



Bagdad receives electrical power from Arizona Public Service Company. Although we believe the Bagdad operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may set legal precedents, which could adversely affect our water rights at Bagdad and at our other properties in Arizona. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion.











Safford





Our wholly owned Safford mine has been in operation since 2007 and is an open-pit copper mining complex located in Graham County, Arizona, approximately eight miles north of the town of Safford and 170 miles east of Phoenix. The site is accessible by paved county road off U.S. Highway 70.



The Safford mine includes two copper deposits that have oxide mineralization overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite.



The property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathodes. The operation consists of two open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000 metric tons per day. The crushed ore is delivered to a single leach pad by a series of overland and portable conveyors. Leach solutions feed a SX/EW facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year. A sulphur burner plant is also in operation at Safford, providing a cost-effective source of sulphuric acid used in SX/EW operations. The available mining fleet consists of twenty 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 225,000 metric tons of material per day.



Safford’s copper production totaled175 millionpounds in2012,151 millionpounds in2011and143 millionpounds in2010.



Safford is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,250 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 750 meters above sea level. The Safford operation encompasses approximately 25,000 acres, comprising approximately 21,000 acres of patented lands, approximately 3,950 acres of unpatented lands, and approximately 50 acres of land held by federal permit.



The Safford operation’s electrical power is primarily sourced from Tucson Electric Power Company, Arizona Public Service Company and the Luna Energy facility. Although we believe the Safford operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the Safford operation. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion.











Sierrita





Our wholly owned Sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in Pima County, Arizona, approximately 20 miles southwest of Tucson and seven miles west of the town of Green Valley and Interstate Highway 19. The site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail.



The Sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla. Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides.



The Sierrita operation includes a 102,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates. Sierrita also produces copper from a ROM oxide-leaching system. Cathode copper is plated at the Twin Buttes EW facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of copper per year. In 2004, a copper sulfate crystal plant began production, which has the capacity to produce 40 million pounds of copper sulfate per year. The Sierrita operation also has molybdenum facilities consisting of a leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. The molybdenum facilities process molybdenum concentrate produced by Sierrita, from our other mines and from third-party sources. The available mining fleet consists of twenty-five 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 200,000 metric tons of material per day.



Sierrita’s production totaled157 millionpounds of copper and21 millionpounds of molybdenum in2012,177 millionpounds of copper and23 millionpounds of molybdenum in2011, and147 millionpounds of copper and18 millionpounds of molybdenum in2010.



Sierrita is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 12 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,160 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 440 meters above sea level. The Sierrita operation, including the adjacent Twin Buttes site (refer to "Development Projects and Exploration" for further discussion), encompasses approximately 37,650 acres, comprising approximately 13,300 acres of patented mining claims, and approximately 24,350 acres of split-estate lands.



Sierrita receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the Tucson Electric Power Company. Although we believe the Sierrita operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water rights claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the Sierrita operation. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion.











Miami





Our wholly owned Miami mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in Gila County, Arizona, approximately 90 miles east of Phoenix and six miles west of the city of Globe on U.S. Highway 60. The site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail.



The Miami mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite. Chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals.



Since about 1915, the Miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both flotation and leaching technologies. Current operations include leaching by the SX/EW process. The design capacity of the SX/EW plant is 200 million pounds of copper per year. The available mining fleet consists of twenty 227-metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 93,000 metric tons of material per day.



Miami’s copper production totaled66 millionpounds in both2012and2011, and18 millionpounds in2010.



Miami is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom will have an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. The Miami operation encompasses approximately 9,100 acres, comprising approximately 8,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and approximately 350 acres of unpatented mining claims.



Miami receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the Salt River Project and natural gas through long-term contracts with El Paso Natural Gas as the transporter. Although we believe the Miami operation has sufficient water sources to support current operations, we are a party to litigation that may impact our water right claims or rights to continued use of currently available water supplies, which could adversely affect our water supply for the Miami operation. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for further discussion.











Tyrone and Chino





Tyrone

Our wholly owned Tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in operation since 1967. It is located in southwestern New Mexico in Grant County, approximately 10 miles south of Silver City, New Mexico, along State Highway 90. The site is accessible by paved road and rail.



The Tyrone mine is a porphyry copper deposit. Mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of chalcocite with leachable oxide mineralization consisting of chrysocolla.



Copper processing facilities consist of a SX/EW operation with a maximum capacity of approximately 100 million pounds of copper cathodes per year. The available mining fleet consists of twenty-one 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 17 to 47 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 136,000 metric tons of material per day.



Tyrone’s copper production totaled83 millionpounds in2012,76 millionpounds in2011and82 millionpounds in2010.



Tyrone is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,500 meters above sea level. The Tyrone operation encompasses approximately 35,200 acres, comprising 18,750 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and 16,450 acres of unpatented mining claims.



Tyrone receives electrical power from the Luna Energy facility and from the open market. We believe the Tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations.



Chino

Our wholly owned Chino mine is an open-pit copper mining complex located in southwestern New Mexico in Grant County, approximately 15 miles east of the town of Silver City off of State Highway 180. The mine is accessible by paved roads and by rail. Chino has been in operation since 1910.



The Chino mine is a porphyry copper deposit with adjacent copper skarn deposits. There is leachable oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and millable primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and azurite. Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and chalcopyrite and molybdenite the dominant primary sulfides.



The Chino operation consists of a 36,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, and a 150 million pound-per-year SX/EW plant that produces copper cathode from solution generated by ROM leaching. The available mining fleet consists of thirty-four 240-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 42 to 48 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 218,000 metric tons of material per day.



During 2011, we restarted mining and milling activities at the Chino mine. Ramp up activities at Chino are continuing, with production of approximately 250 million pounds of copper per year targeted in 2014. Chino's production totaled144 millionpounds of copper and2 millionpounds of molybdenum in2012,69 millionpounds of copper in2011and34 millionpounds of copper in2010from residual leaching operations.











Chino is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is 2,250 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,500 meters above sea level. The Chino operation encompasses approximately 118,600 acres, comprising approximately 113,200 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and approximately 5,400 acres of unpatented mining claims.



Chino receives power from the Luna Energy facility and from the open market. We believe Chino has sufficient water resources to support current operations.



Henderson and Climax





Henderson

Our wholly owned Henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is located approximately 42 miles west of Denver, Colorado, off U.S. Highway 40. Nearby communities include the towns of Empire, Georgetown and Idaho Springs. The Henderson mill site is located approximately 15 miles west of the mine and is accessible from Colorado State Highway 9. The Henderson mine and mill are connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the Continental Divide and an additional five-mile surface conveyor. The tunnel portal is located five miles east of the mill.



The Henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral.



The Henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 32,000 metric tons per day. Henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 40 million pounds of molybdenum per year. The majority of the molybdenum concentrate produced is shipped to our Fort Madison, Iowa, processing facility. The available underground mining equipment fleet consists of thirteen 9-metric ton load-haul-dump (LHD) units and six 73-metric ton haul trucks, which deliver ore to a gyratory crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill stockpiles.



Henderson’s molybdenum production totaled34 millionpounds in2012,38 millionpounds in2011and40 millionpounds in2010.



The Henderson mine is located in a mountain region with the main access shaft at 3,180 meters above sea level. The main production levels are currently at elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. This region experiences significant snowfall during the winter months.



The Henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 11,900 acres, comprising approximately 11,850 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and an approximate 50-acre easement with the U.S. Forest Service for the surface portion of the conveyor corridor.



Henderson operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with Xcel Energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with Anadarko Energy Services Company (and effective March 1, 2013, Seminole Energy Services Company) with Xcel Energy as the transporter. We believe the Henderson operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations.



















Climax

Our wholly owned Climax mine is located 13 miles northeast of Leadville, Colorado, off Colorado State Highway 91 at the top of Fremont Pass. The mine is accessible by paved roads.



The Climax ore body is a porphyry molybdenum deposit with molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral.



The Climax open-pit mine, which was commissioned in second-quarter 2012, includes a 25,000 metric ton-per-day mill facility. Molybdenum production from Climax totaled7 millionpounds in 2012 and is targeted to produce 20 million pounds for 2013, with the potential to produce 30 million pounds per year, depending on market conditions. The fleet consists of two hydraulic shovels and seven 177-metric ton haul trucks.



The Climax mine is located in a mountain region with snowfall averaging 23 feet per year. The highest bench elevation is approximately 4,050 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to have an elevation of approximately 3,100 meters above sea level. The operations encompass approximately 14,350 acres.



Climax operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with Xcel Energy and natural gas through long-term contracts with Anadarko Energy Services Company (and effective March 1, 2013, Seminole Energy Services Company), with Xcel Energy as the transporter. We believe the Climax operation has sufficient water resources to support current operations.



Other North America Mines



In addition to the currently operating mines described above, we have four non-operating copper mines – Ajo, Bisbee and Tohono in Arizona, and Cobre in New Mexico – that have been on care-and-maintenance status for several years and would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to return them to operating status.



We also own the Twin Buttes copper mine, which ceased operations in 1994 and is adjacent to our Sierrita mine in Arizona. Refer to "Development Projects and Exploration" for further discussion.



South America



At our operations in South America, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the relevant country. The claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have a controlling ownership interest. Roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements.



Cerro Verde





We have a 53.56 percent ownership interest in Cerro Verde, with the remaining 46.44 percent held by SMM Cerro Verde Netherlands B.V. (21.0 percent), Compañia de Minas Buenaventura S.A.A. (19.58 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are publicly traded on the Lima Stock Exchange (5.86 percent).



Cerro Verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of Arequipa, Peru. The site is accessible by paved highway. A majority of Cerro Verde’s









copper cathode production is sold locally and the remaining copper cathodes and concentrate production are transported approximately 70 miles by truck and rail to the Port of Matarani for shipment to international markets.



The Cerro Verde mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite, chrysocolla, malachite and copper “pitch.” Chalcocite and covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals. Chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides.



Cerro Verde’s current operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, a 120,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator and SX/EW leaching facilities. Leach copper production is derived from a 39,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility and a ROM leach system. This leaching operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year. The available fleet consists of thirty-two 230-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four electric shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 33 to 53 cubic meters and one hydraulic shovel with a bucket size of 21 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 337,000 metric tons of material per day.



Cerro Verde’s production totaled595 millionpounds of copper and8 millionpounds of molybdenum in2012,647 millionpounds of copper and10 millionpounds of molybdenum in2011, and668 millionpounds of copper and7 millionpounds of molybdenum in2010.



Refer to “Development Projects and Exploration” for further discussion of the large-scale expansion at Cerro Verde that would expand the concentrator facilities to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2016.



Cerro Verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 2,753 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,568 meters above sea level. Cerro Verde has a mining concession covering approximately 157,000 acres plus approximately 25 acres of owned property, and approximately 80 acres of rights-of-way outside the mining concession area.



Cerro Verde receives electrical power under long-term contracts with Kallpa Generación SA and Empresa de Generación Eléctrica de Arequipa. Water for our Cerro Verde processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal precipitation. Cerro Verde’s participation in the Pillones Reservoir Project has secured water rights that we believe will be sufficient to support Cerro Verde’s current operations.



Cerro Verde has also reached an agreement with the Regional Government of Arequipa, the National Government, Servicio de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Arequipa S.A. (SEDAPAR) and other local institutions to allow it to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant for Arequipa, should Cerro Verde proceed with plans for a large-scale expansion. Once Cerro Verde obtains a license for the treated water, it would be used to supplement its existing water supplies to support the potential concentrator expansion.



For further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”



El Abra













We own a 51 percent interest in El Abra, and the remaining 49 percent interest is held by the state-owned copper enterprise Corporación Nacional del Cobre de Chile (CODELCO).



El Abra is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and is located 47 miles north of Calama in Chile’s El Loa province, Region II. The site is accessible by paved highway and by rail.



The El Abra mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has sulfide and oxide mineralization. The predominant primary sulfide copper minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. There is a minor amount of secondary sulfide mineralization

as chalcocite. The oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. There are lesser amounts of copper-bearing clays and tenorite.



The El Abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a SX/EW facility with a capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 125,000 metric ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized ROM leaching operation. The available fleet consists of forty 220-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four shovels with buckets ranging in size from 26 to 41 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average of 223,000 metric tons of material per day.



During 2011, we commenced production from El Abra’s sulfide ores. Production from the sulfide ore is replacing the depleting oxide copper production. El Abra’s copper production totaled338 millionpounds in2012,274 millionpounds in2011and320 millionpounds in2010.



We are also engaged in pre-feasibility studies for a potential large-scale milling operation at El Abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. Exploration results at El Abra have identified a significant sulfide resource.



El Abra is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 4,180 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,430 meters above sea level. El Abra controls a total of approximately 151,300 acres of mining claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield and pipeline. In addition, El Abra has land surface rights for the road between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the Salar de Ascotán aquifer.



El Abra currently receives electrical power under a long-term contract with Electroandina. Water for our El Abra processing operations comes from pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotán aquifer pursuant to regulatory approval. We believe El Abra has sufficient water rights to support current operations. For a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”



Candelaria and Ojos del Salado





Candelaria

We have an 80 percent ownership interest in Candelaria, with the remaining 20 percent interest owned by affiliates of Sumitomo Corporation.



Candelaria’s open-pit copper mine has been in operation since 1993 and the underground mine has been in operation since 2005. The Candelaria copper mining complex is located approximately 12 miles south of Copiapó in northern Chile’s Atacama province, Region III. The site is accessible by two maintained dirt roads, one coming









through the Tierra Amarilla community and the other off of Route 5 of the International Pan-American Highway. Copper concentrates are transported by truck to the Punta Padrones port facility located in Caldera, approximately 50 miles northwest of the mine.



The Candelaria mine is an iron oxide, copper and gold deposit. Primary sulfide mineralization consists of chalcopyrite.



The Candelaria operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a 6,000 metric ton-per-day underground copper mine, which is mined by sublevel stoping, feeding a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator.  The available fleet consists of forty-eight 225-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 28 to 43 cubic meters, which are capable of moving 250,000 metric tons of material per day.



Candelaria’s production totaled271 millionpounds of copper and69 thousandounces of gold in2012,327 millionpounds of copper and85 thousandounces of gold in2011, and300 millionpounds of copper and76 thousandounces of gold in2010.



Candelaria is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 675 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 32 meters below sea level. The Candelaria property encompasses approximately 13,400 acres, including approximately 125 acres for the port facility in Caldera. The remaining property consists of mineral rights owned by us in which the surface is not owned but is controlled by us, which is consistent with Chilean law.



Candelaria receives electrical power through long-term contracts with AES Gener S.A., a local energy company. Candelaria’s water supply comes from well fields in the area of Tierra Amarilla and Copiapó that draw water from the Copiapó River aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of that aquifer in recent years, Candelaria is expanding its sources of water supply. During 2010, we completed construction of a pipeline to bring water from a nearby water treatment facility. In addition, we have substantially completed the construction of a desalination plant and pipeline that will supply Candelaria’s longer term water needs. For further discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”



Ojos del Salado

We have an 80 percent ownership interest in Ojos del Salado, with the remaining 20 percent interest owned by affiliates of Sumitomo Corporation.



The Ojos del Salado operation began commercial production in 1929 and consists of two underground copper mines (Santos and Alcaparrosa) and a 3,800 metric ton-per-day concentrator. The operation is located approximately 10 miles east of Copiapó in northern Chile’s Atacama province, Region III, and is accessible by paved highway. The Ojos del Salado mines are iron oxide and copper and gold deposits. Primary sulfide mineralization consists of chalcopyrite.



The Ojos del Salado operation has a capacity of 3,800 metric tons per day of ore from the Santos underground mine and 4,000 metric tons of ore per day from the Alcaparrosa underground mine. The ore from both mines is mined by sublevel stoping since both the ore and enclosing rocks are competent. The broken ore is removed from the stopes using scoops and loaded into an available fleet of twenty-six 28-metric ton trucks, which transport the ore to the surface. The ore from the Santos mine is hauled directly to the Ojos del Salado mill for processing, and the ore from the Alcaparrosa mine is reloaded into six 54-metric ton trucks and hauled seven miles to the Candelaria mill for processing. The Ojos del Salado concentrator has the capacity to produce over 30 million pounds of copper and 9 thousand ounces of gold per year. Tailings from the Ojos del Salado mill are pumped to the Candelaria tailings facility for final deposition. The Candelaria facility has sufficient capacity for the remaining Ojos del Salado tailings.



Ojos del Salado’s production totaled53 millionpounds of copper and14 thousandounces of gold in2012,58 millionpounds of copper and16 thousandounces of gold in2011, and66 millionpounds of copper and17 thousandounces of gold in2010.



Ojos del Salado is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest underground level is at an elevation of 500 meters above sea level, with the lowest underground level at 150 meters above sea level. The Ojos del Salado mineral rights encompass approximately 15,800 acres, which includes approximately 6,800 acres of owned land in and around the Ojos del









Salado underground mines and plant site. The remaining property consists of mineral rights owned by us in which the surface is not owned but is controlled by us, which is consistent with Chilean law.



Ojos del Salado receives electrical power through long-term contracts with AES Gener S.A. Ojos del Salado’s water supply comes from well fields in the area of Tierra Amarilla and Copiapó that draw water from the Copiapó River aquifer. For a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”



Indonesia





Ownership. PT Freeport Indonesia is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the Republic of Indonesia and incorporated in Delaware. We directly own 81.28 percent of the outstanding common stock of PT Freeport Indonesia and indirectly own 9.36 percent through our wholly owned subsidiary, PT Indocopper Investama; the Indonesian government owns the remaining 9.36 percent.



We have established certain unincorporated joint ventures with Rio Tinto plc (Rio Tinto), under which Rio Tinto has a 40 percent interest in certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion of our joint ventures with Rio Tinto.



We also conduct exploration activities in Papua through two other entities: PT Irja Eastern Minerals (Eastern Minerals), of which we own 100 percent, and PT Nabire Bakti Mining (PTNBM).



Contracts of Work. PT Freeport Indonesia conducts its current exploration and mining operations in Indonesia through a Contract of Work (COW) with the Indonesian government. The COW governs our rights and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls, royalties, repatriation and other matters, and was concluded pursuant to the 1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which expresses Indonesia’s foreign investment policy and provides basic guarantees of remittance rights and protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors. Specifically, the COW provides that the Indonesian government will not nationalize or expropriate PT Freeport Indonesia’s mining operations. Any disputes regarding the provisions of the COW are subject to international arbitration. We have experienced no disputes requiring arbitration during the more than 40 years we have operated in Indonesia.



PT Freeport Indonesia’s original COW was entered into in 1967 and was replaced by a new COW in 1991. The initial term of the current COW expires in 2021, but can be extended for two 10-year periods subject to Indonesian government approval, which pursuant to the COW cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. The COW allows us to conduct exploration, mining and production activities in the 24,700-acre Block A area, which is where all of PT Freeport Indonesia’s proven and probable mineral reserves and current mining operations are located. Under the COW, PT Freeport Indonesia also conducts exploration activities in the Block B area. We expect the Block B area to be reduced to approximately 413,000 acres once the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources (DEMR)









formally accepts PT Freeport Indonesia's relinquishment of approximately 89,000 acres. Further relinquishments may result from the COW evaluation process discussed below and in Note14.



PT Freeport Indonesia pays royalties on copper, gold and silver under its COW, and has agreed to pay additional royalties to the Indonesian government that are not required under its COW. The additional royalties provide further support to the local governments and to the people of the Indonesian province of Papua. PT Freeport Indonesia’s share of the combined royalties totaled$93 millionin2012,$137 millionin2011and$156 millionin2010.



Eastern Minerals is allowed to conduct exploration in Papua through a joint venture agreement under a separate COW. We expect Eastern Minerals' exploration area to be reduced to approximately 183,000 acres once the DEMR formally accepts Eastern Minerals' relinquishment of approximately 264,000 acres, and further relinquishments may result from the COW evaluation process discussed below and in Note14. We have requested suspension of activities for the COW from the DEMR while awaiting receipt of permits from the Indonesian government's Department of Forestry that would allow Eastern Minerals to resume exploration activities. We have not received a response to this request from the DEMR.



Under a joint venture agreement through PTNBM, we are allowed to conduct exploration activities under a separate COW in an area in three parcels contiguous to PT Freeport Indonesia’s Block B and one of Eastern Minerals’ blocks. We expect PTNBM's exploration area to be reduced to approximately 200,000 acres once the DEMR formally accepts PTNBM's relinquishment of approximately 293,000 acres, and further relinquishments may result from the COW evaluation process discussed below and in Note14. We have also requested suspension of activities for the COW from the DEMR while awaiting receipt of permits from the Indonesian government's Department of Forestry that would allow us to resume exploration activities. We have not received a response to this request from the DEMR.





In January 2012, the President of Indonesia issued a decree calling for the creation of a team of Ministers to evaluate contracts of work for adjustment to the 2009 Mining Law, and accordingly, to take steps to assess and negotiate size of work areas, government revenues and domestic processing of minerals. We have had discussions with officials of the Indonesian government and are working cooperatively to complete this evaluation process and to obtain an extension of the COW beyond 2021, as provided under the terms of the COW. The COW can only be modified by mutual agreement between PT Freeport Indonesia and the Indonesian government.



Grasberg Minerals District.  PT Freeport Indonesia operates in the remote highlands of the Sudirman Mountain Range in the province of Papua, Indonesia, which is on the western half of the island of New Guinea. We and our predecessors have been the only operator of exploration and mining activities in Block A since 1967.



The Grasberg minerals district currently has three mines in operation: the Grasberg open pit, the Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) underground mine and the Big Gossan underground mine. We also have several projects in progress in the Grasberg minerals district, primarily related to the development of the large-scale, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the Grasberg open pit. In aggregate, these underground ore bodies are expected to ramp up over several years to approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the currently anticipated transition from the Grasberg open pit in 2017. Refer to “Development Projects and Exploration” for further discussion.











PT Freeport Indonesia’s production, including our joint venture partner’s share, totaled695 millionpounds of copper and862 thousandounces of gold in2012,882 millionpounds of copper and1.4 millionounces of gold in2011and1.3 billionpounds of copper and2.0 millionounces of gold in2010.



Our principal source of power for all our Indonesian operations is a coal-fired power plant that we built in 1998. Diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power generating capacity. A combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations. Our Indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches.



Grasberg Open Pit

We began open-pit mining of the Grasberg ore body in 1990. Open-pit operations are expected to continue through 2016. Production in the open pit is currently at the 3,190- to 3,940- meter elevation level and totaled 43 million metric tons of ore in2012, which provided 72 percent of PT Freeport Indonesia's2012mill feed.



The current equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. The larger mining equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 157 haul trucks with payloads ranging from 218 to 330 metric tons and 16 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 to 42 cubic meters, which mined an average of 399,000 metric tons of material per day during2012, 486,000 metric tons per day in2011and 701,000 metric tons per day in2010.



Grasberg crushing and conveying systems are integral to the mine and provide the capacity to transport up to 250,000 metric tons per day of Grasberg ore to the mill and 150,000 metric tons per day of overburden to the overburden stockpiles. The remaining overburden is moved by haul trucks.



DOZ underground mine

The DOZ ore body lies vertically below the now depleted Intermediate Ore Zone. We began production from the DOZ ore body in 1989 using open stope mining methods, but suspended production in 1991 in favor of production from the Grasberg open pit. Production resumed in September 2000 using the block-cave method and is at the 3,110-meter elevation level. Production from the DOZ mine averaged44,600metric tons of ore per day for the year2012(51,200metric tons of ore per day infourth-quarter2012) and is expected to ramp up to the design rate of 80,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2013, following completion of ongoing panel repairs, resulting from the temporary shutdown and suspension of operations in fourth-quarter 2011 and early 2012. Production at the DOZ mine is expected to continue through 2019.



The DOZ mine fleet consists of over 200 pieces of mobile heavy equipment, which is capable of mining an average of 80,000 metric tons of material per day. The primary mining equipment directly associated with production and development includes an available fleet of 44 LHD units and 20 haul trucks. Each production LHD unit typically carry approximately 11 metric tons of ore. Using ore passes and chutes, the LHD units transfer ore into 55-metric ton capacity haul trucks. The trucks dump into two gyratory crushers and the ore is then conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing.



During2012, we completed over 1,600 meters of development drifting in support of the block-cave mining method for the DOZ mine. The success of the development of the DOZ mine, one of the world’s largest underground mines, provides confidence in the future development of PT Freeport Indonesia’s large-scale undeveloped underground ore bodies.



Big Gossan underground mine

The Big Gossan mine lies underground and adjacent to the current mill site. It is a tabular, near vertical ore body with approximate dimensions of 1,200 meters along strike and 800 meters down dip with varying thicknesses from 20 meters to 120 meters. The mine utilizes a blasthole stoping method with delayed paste backfill. Stopes of varying sizes are mined and the ore dropped down passes to a truck haulage level. Trucks are chute loaded and transport the ore to a jaw crusher. The crushed ore is then hoisted vertically via a two-skip production shaft to a level where it is loaded onto a conveyor belt. The belt carries the ore to one of the main underground conveyors where the ore is transferred and conveyed to the surface stockpiles for processing.



The Big Gossan mine averaged1,600metric tons of ore per day for the year2012(2,100metric tons of ore per day in fourth-quarter2012) and is expected to ramp up to full rates of 7,000 metric tons of ore per day in 2014.











Big Gossan has over 70 pieces of mobile heavy equipment, which includes 11 loaders and 8 trucks used in development and production activities.



Description of Ore Bodies.Our Indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions, the Grasberg monzodiorite and the Ertsberg diorite. The host rocks of these ore bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and upper flanks of the Sudirman Range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to dioritic composition that intrude them. The igneous-hosted ore bodies (the Grasberg open pit and block cave, and portions of the DOZ block cave) occur as vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite and, to a lesser extent, bornite. The sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies (portions of the DOZ and all of the Big Gossan) occur as “magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn” replacements, whose location and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions.



The copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is dominated by chalcopyrite, but higher bornite concentrations are common. Moreover, gold occurs in significant concentrations in all of the district’s ore bodies, though rarely visible to the naked eye. These gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite.



The following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported ore bodies.











The following map, which encompasses an area of approximately 42 square kilometers (approximately 16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of our reported ore bodies and their locations.



Africa





TFM is organized under the laws of the DRC. We own an effective 56 percent interest in TFM, with the remaining ownership interests held by Lundin Mining Corporation (Lundin) (an effective 24 percent interest) and La Générale des Carrières et des Mines (Gécamines), which is wholly owned by the DRC government (a 20 percent non-dilutable interest).



TFM is entitled to mine in the DRC under an Amended and Restated Mining Convention (ARMC) with the DRC government. The original Mining Convention was entered into in 1996 and was replaced with the ARMC in 2005 and further amended in 2010 (approved in 2011). The current ARMC will remain in effect for as long as the Tenke concessions are exploitable.



Effective March 26, 2012, the DRC government issued a Presidential Decree approving modifications to TFM's bylaws following a review (completed in 2010) of TFM's existing mining contracts. Among other changes to the amended ARMC, FCX's effective ownership in TFM was reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent.











TFM pays a royalty of 2 percent of net revenues under the ARMC, which totaled$25 millionin2012,$24 millionin2011and$20 millionin2010.



The Tenke Fungurume deposits are located in the Katanga province of the DRC approximately 110 miles northwest of Lubumbashi and are accessible by partially paved roads and by rail. The deposits are sediment-hosted copper and cobalt deposits with oxide, mixed oxide-sulfide and sulfide mineralization. The dominant oxide minerals are malachite, pseudomalachite and heterogenite. Important sulfide minerals consist of bornite, carrollite, chalcocite and chalcopyrite.



Initial copper production commenced at the Tenke mines in late March 2009; targeted copper production rates were achieved in September 2009; and the cobalt and sulphuric acid plants were commissioned in third-quarter 2009. Copper and cobalt are recovered through an agitation-leach plant. An expansion of the project to optimize the current plant and increase capacity was substantially completed in fourth-quarter 2012. The expanded mill is capable of throughput of 14,000 metric tons of ore per day, and expanded processing facilities will enable the addition of approximately 150 million pounds of copper production per year. The expansion project included mill upgrades, additional mining equipment, a new tankhouse and an additional sulphuric acid plant (which is expected to be completed in 2015).



The current equipment fleet includes one 10-cubic meter mass excavator, three 17-cubic meter mass excavators, three 12-cubic meter front-end loaders, eleven 7-cubic meter front-end loaders, thirty-two 91-metric ton haul trucks and eighteen 45-metric ton haul trucks.



Production from the Tenke mines totaled348 millionpounds of copper and26 millionpounds of cobalt in2012,281 millionpounds of copper and25 millionpounds of cobalt in2011and265 millionpounds of copper and20 millionpounds of cobalt in2010.



We continue to engage in drilling activities, exploration analyses and metallurgical testing to evaluate the potential of the highly prospective Tenke Fungurume minerals district. These analyses are being incorporated into future plans to evaluate opportunities for expansion.  Future expansions are subject to a number of factors, including economic and market conditions and the business and investment climate in the DRC.



The Tenke Fungurume minerals district is located in a tropical region; however, temperatures are moderated by its higher altitudes. Weather in this region is characterized by a dry season and a wet season, each lasting about six months with average rainfall of 47 inches per year. The highest bench elevation is expected to be 1,518 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,110 meters above sea level. The Tenke Fungurume deposits are covered by six exploitation permits totaling approximately 394,450 acres.



TFM has entered into long-term power supply and infrastructure funding agreements with La Société Nationale d’Electricité, the state-owned electric utility company serving the region. The results of a recent water exploration program, as well as the regional geological and hydro-geological conditions, indicate that adequate water is available during the expected life of the operation.













PRODUCTION DATA

Years Ended December 31,COPPER(millions of recoverable pounds)20122011201020092008(FCX’s net interest in %)North AmericaMorenci (85%)a537522437428626Bagdad (100%)197194203225227Safford (100%)175151143184133Sierrita (100%)157177147170188Miami (100%)6666181619Tyrone (100%)8376828676Chino (100%)144693436155Other (100%)43326Total North America1,3631,2581,0671,1471,430South AmericaCerro Verde (53.56%)595647668662694El Abra (51%)338274320358366Candelaria/Ojos del Salado (80%)324385366370446Total South America1,2571,3061,3541,3901,506IndonesiaGrasberg (90.64%)b6958461,2221,4121,094AfricaTenke Fungurume (56%)c348281265154—Consolidated3,6633,6913,9084,1034,030Less noncontrolling interests723710766754693Net2,9402,9813,1423,3493,337GOLD(thousands of recoverable ounces)(FCX’s net interest in %)North America (100%)a13107414South America (80%)831019392114Indonesia (90.64%)b8621,2721,7862,5681,163Consolidated9581,3831,8862,6641,291Less noncontrolling interests98139186258132Net8601,2441,7002,4061,159MOLYBDENUM(millions of recoverable pounds)(FCX’s net interest in %)Henderson (100%)3438402740Climax (100%)d7————North America copper mines (100%)a3635252530Cerro Verde (53.56%)810723Consolidated8583725473Less noncontrolling interest45311Net8178695372COBALT(millions of contained pounds)(FCX's net interest in %)Consolidated- Tenke Fungurume (56%)c262520——Less noncontrolling interests11118——Net151412——

a.Amounts are net of Morenci’s 15 percent joint venture partner interest.

b.Amounts are net of Grasberg’s joint venture partner’s interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement.

c.Initial copper production commenced at the Tenke mines in March 2009. Effective March 26, 2012, FCX's effective ownership interest in TFM was prospectively reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent.

d.The Climax molybdenum mine began commercial operations in May 2012.











SALES DATA





Years Ended December 31,

COPPER(millions of recoverable pounds)20122011201020092008

(FCX’s net interest in %)

North America

Morenci (85%)a532521434459646

Bagdad (100%)196201206225226

Safford (100%)175147155176107

Sierrita (100%)162175152172184

Miami (100%)6859171620

Tyrone (100%)8279838571

Chino (100%)132623552174

Other (100%)43326

Total North America1,3511,2471,0851,1871,434

South America

Cerro Verde (53.56%)589657654667701

El Abra (51%)338276315361365

Candelaria/Ojos del Salado (80%)318389366366455

Total South America1,2451,3221,3351,3941,521

Indonesia

Grasberg (90.64%)b7168461,2141,4001,111

Africa

Tenke Fungurume (56%)c336283262130—

Consolidated sales from mines3,6483,6983,8964,1114,066

Less noncontrolling interests717717756746699

Net2,9312,9813,1403,3653,367

Consolidated sales from mines3,6483,6983,8964,1114,066

Purchased copper125223182166483

Total copper sales, including purchases3,7733,9214,0784,2774,549

Average realized price per pound$3.60$3.86$3.59$2.60$2.69



GOLD(thousands of recoverable ounces)

(FCX’s net interest in %)

North America (100%)a1375616

South America (80%)821019390116

Indonesia (90.64%)b9151,2701,7652,5431,182

Consolidated sales from mines1,0101,3781,8632,6391,314

Less noncontrolling interests102139184256134

Net9081,2391,6792,3831,180

Consolidated sales from mines1,0101,3781,8632,6391,314

Purchased gold21112

Total gold sales, including purchases1,0121,3791,8642,6401,316

Average realized price per ounce$1,665$1,583$1,271$993$861



MOLYBDENUM(millions of recoverable pounds)

Consolidated sales from mines8379675871

Less noncontrolling interests44311

Net7975645770

Consolidated sales from mines8379675871

Purchased molybdenum——268

Total molybdenum sales, including purchases8379696479

Average realized price per pound$14.26$16.98$16.47$12.36$30.55



COBALT(millions of contained pounds)

(FCX's net interest in %)

Consolidated-Tenke Fungurume (56%)c252520——

Less noncontrolling interests11108—

Net141512——

Average realized price per pound$7.83$9.99$10.95$—$—



a.Amounts are net of Morenci’s joint venture partner’s 15 percent interest.

b.Amounts are net of Grasberg’s joint venture partner’s interest, which varies in accordance with terms of the joint venture agreement.

c.Initial copper production commenced at the Tenke mines in March 2009. Effective March 26, 2012, FCX's effective ownership interest in TFM was prospectively reduced from 57.75 percent to 56 percent.













DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS AND EXPLORATION



We have several projects and potential opportunities to expand production volumes, extend mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. Our near-term major development projects, which will require substantial additional capital investment, are presented below. Also refer to MD&A for further discussion of these projects, our other development projects and exploration activities.



Considering the long-term nature and large size of our development projects, actual costs and timing could vary from estimates. We continue to review our mine development and processing plans to maximize the value of our reserves.



Morenci. We are engaged in a project to expand mining and milling capacity at Morenci to process additional sulfide ores identified through exploratory drilling. The approximate $1.4 billion project is targeting incremental annual production of approximately 225 million pounds of copper in 2014 through an increase in milling rates from 50,000 metric tons of ore per day to 115,000 metric tons of ore per day, and mining rates from 700,000 short tons per day (635,000 metric tons per day) to 900,000 short tons per day (815,000metric tons per day). Engineering activities are progressing and construction activities are under way.



Twin Buttes. In December 2009, we purchased the Twin Buttes copper mine, which ceased operations in 1994 and is adjacent to our Sierrita mine. The purchase provides significant synergies in the Sierrita minerals district, including the potential for expanded mining activities and access to material that can be used for Sierrita tailings and stockpile reclamation purposes. We are conducting drilling on the property and metallurgical studies to support a feasibility study expected to commence in 2013.



Cerro Verde. We are engaged in a large-scale expansion at Cerro Verde. The approximate $4.4 billion project would expand the concentrator facilities from 120,000 metric tons of ore per day to 360,000 metric tons of ore per day and provide incremental annual production of approximately 600 million pounds of copper and 15 million pounds of molybdenum beginning in 2016. Cerro Verde received approval of the environmental impact assessment in fourth-quarter 2012. Detailed engineering and procurement of long-lead items are under way, and construction is expected to commence in 2013.



El Abra. We are engaged in pre-feasibility studies for a potential large-scale milling operation at El Abra to process additional sulfide material and to achieve higher recoveries. Exploration results at El Abra have identified a significant sulfide resource.



Grasberg. We have several projects in progress in the Grasberg minerals district, primarily related to the development of large-scale, high-grade underground ore bodies located beneath and nearby the Grasberg open pit. In aggregate, these ore bodies are expected to ramp up over several years to approximately 240,000 metric tons of ore per day following the currently anticipated transition from the Grasberg open pit in 2017. Development of the Deep Mill Level Zone (DMLZ) is advancing. The DMLZ is expected to commence production in 2015 and the Grasberg Block Cave mine is scheduled to commence production in 2017. Over the next five years, estimated aggregate capital spending on these projects is currently expected to average $715 million per year ($565 million per year net to PT Freeport Indonesia). Refer to MD&A for further discussion of these projects and the Common Infrastructure project.



In addition to the near-term development projects in progress in the Grasberg minerals district, we also have an additional long-term underground mine development project in the Grasberg minerals district for the Kucing Liar ore body, which lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern portion of the Grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. We expect to mine the Kucing Liar ore body using the block-cave method; aggregate capital cost estimates for development of the Kucing Liar ore body are projected to approximate $2 billion (which are expected to be made between 2019 and 2031). Additionally, our current mine development plans include approximately $3 billion of capital expenditures at our processing facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once the Grasberg open-pit operations cease (we expect substantially all of these expenditures to be made between 2016 and 2034).











SMELTING FACILITIES



Atlantic Copper. Our wholly owned Atlantic Copper smelter and refinery is located on land concessions from the Huelva, Spain, port authorities, which expire in 2027.



The design capacity of the smelter is approximately 300,000 metric tons of copper per year and the refinery currently has a capacity of 285,000 metric tons of copper per year. During2012, Atlantic Copper treated approximately 1.1 million metric tons of concentrate and scrap and produced 295,200 metric tons of copper anodes from its smelter and 274,400 metric tons of copper cathodes from its refinery.



In May 2011, Atlantic Copper successfully completed a scheduled 26-day maintenance turnaround. Major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately 50 days to complete) typically are expected to occur approximately every eight years for Atlantic Copper, with short-term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. The next long-term maintenance turnaround is scheduled for the second half of 2013.



We made no capital contributions to Atlantic Copper in 2012 and $202 million in 2011. No capital contributions were made for the years 2005 through 2010. We also loan funds to Atlantic Copper from time to time. AtDecember 31, 2012, loans to Atlantic Copper totaled$434 million.



PT Smelting. PT Freeport Indonesia’s 1991 COW required us to construct or cause to be constructed a smelter in Indonesia if we and the Indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically viable. In 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered into agreements relating to the formation of PT Smelting, an Indonesian company, and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. PT Smelting owns and operates the smelter and refinery. PT Freeport Indonesia, Mitsubishi Materials Corporation (Mitsubishi Materials), Mitsubishi Corporation Unimetals Ltd. (Mitsubishi) and JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation (Nippon) own 25 percent, 60.5 percent, 9.5 percent, and 5 percent, respectively, of the outstanding PT Smelting common stock.



PT Freeport Indonesia’s contract with PT Smelting provides for the supply of 100 percent of the copper concentrate requirements (subject to a minimum or maximum rate) necessary for PT Smelting to produce 205,000 metric tons of copper annually on a priority basis. PT Freeport Indonesia also sells copper concentrate to PT Smelting (at market rates) for quantities in excess of 205,000 metric tons of copper annually. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion of our investment in PT Smelting.



During2012, PT Smelting treated 855,500 metric tons of concentrate and produced 198,400 metric tons of copper anodes from its smelter and 197,200 metric tons of copper cathodes from its refinery.



In May 2012, PT Smelting completed a scheduled 30-day maintenance turnaround. Major maintenance turnarounds (which range from two weeks to a month to complete) typically are expected to occur approximately every two years for PT Smelting, with significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim. The next major maintenance turnaround is scheduled for 2014.



Miami Smelter. We own and operate a smelter at our Miami, Arizona, mining operation. The smelter has been in production for approximately 100 years and has been upgraded numerous times during that period to implement new technologies, to improve production and to comply with air quality requirements. Additionally, new air quality regulations for sulphur dioxide emissions will require the Miami smelter to implement additional new technologies to meet these requirements or limit its operations (refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for further discussion).



The Miami smelter processes copper concentrate primarily from our Arizona copper mines. Concentrate processed through the smelter totaled approximately 620,000 metric tons in2012. In addition, because sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting concentrates, the Miami smelter is also the most significant source of sulphuric acid for our North America leaching operations.



Major maintenance turnarounds (which take approximately three weeks to complete) typically occur approximately every 14 months for the Miami smelter, with shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim.













OTHER PROPERTIES AND INVESTMENTS



Rod & Refining Operations. Our Rod & Refining operations consist of conversion facilities located in North America, including a refinery in El Paso, Texas; rod mills in El Paso, Texas, Norwich, Connecticut, and Miami, Arizona; and a specialty copper products facility in Bayway, New Jersey. We refine our copper anode production from our Miami smelter at our El Paso refinery. The El Paso refinery has the potential to operate at an annual production capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to refine all of the copper anode we produce at Miami. Our El Paso refinery also produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride, and autoclaved slimes material containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium.



Molybdenum Conversion Facilities. We process molybdenum concentrates at our conversion plants in the U.S. and Europe into such products as technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium molybdates, molybdenum disulfide and molybdenum metal powder. We operate molybdenum roasters in Sierrita, Arizona; Fort Madison, Iowa; and Rotterdam, the Netherlands.



The conversion facility located at our Sierrita copper mine consists of two molybdenum roasters that process molybdenum concentrates produced at our mines and on a toll basis for third parties. The facility produces molybdenum oxide and related products. In addition, our Bagdad copper mine has a pressure leach plant that processes molybdenum concentrates.



The Fort Madison facility consists of two molybdenum roasters, a sulphur dioxide conversion plant, a metallurgical (technical oxide) packaging facility, and a chemical conversion plant, which includes a wet-chemicals plant, sublimation equipment and molybdenum disulfide processing and packaging. In the chemical plant, molybdic oxide is further refined into various high-purity molybdenum chemicals for a wide range of uses by chemical and catalyst manufacturers. In addition to metallurgical oxide products, the Fort Madison facility produces ammonium dimolybdate, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium heptamolybdate, ammonium octamolybdate, sodium molybdate, sublimed pure molybdic oxide and molybdenum disulfide.



The Rotterdam facility consists of a molybdenum roaster, sulphuric acid plant, metallurgical packaging

facility and chemical conversion plant. The plant produces metallurgical products primarily for third parties. Ammonium dimolybdate and pure molybdic oxide are produced in the wet-chemicals plant.



We also produce ferromolybdenum for customers worldwide at our conversion plant located in Stowmarket, United Kingdom. The plant is operated both as an internal and external customer tolling facility.



McMoRan Exploration Co. (MMR).  MMR is engaged in the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico Shelf. In December 2010, we purchased 500,000 shares of MMR’s 5.75% Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $500 million (refer to Note6for further discussion). In connection with the purchase, we entered into a registration rights agreement and a stockholder agreement with MMR. Several of our directors and executive officers also serve as directors or executive officers of MMR, and our wholly owned subsidiary FM Services Company (FM Services) provides certain executive, technical administrative, accounting, financial, tax and other services to us and to MMR on a cost-reimbursement basis. Refer to Part III, Item 13. “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence,” for additional information. Also refer to Note1for discussion of FCX's proposed acquisition of MMR.





SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS



Our copper mining operations require significant energy, principally diesel, electricity, coal and natural gas, most of which is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. Energy represented approximately21 percentof our2012consolidated copper production costs and included purchases of approximately255 milliongallons of diesel fuel;6,800gigawatt hours of electricity at our North America, South America and Africa copper mining operations (we generate all of our power at our Indonesia mining operation);700 thousandmetric tons of coal for our coal power plant in Indonesia; and1 millionMMBTU (million British thermal units) of natural gas at certain of our North America mines. For2013, we estimate energy costs will approximate21 percentof our consolidated copper production costs.











Sulphuric acid is used in the SX/EW process and is produced as a by-product of the smelting process at our smelters and from our sulphur burners at the Safford and Tenke mines. Sulphuric acid needs in excess of the sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties.



Our mining operations also require significant quantities of water for mining, ore processing and related support facilities. Although we believe our mining operations have sufficient water rights, the loss of water rights for any of our mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. For a further discussion of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.”





COMPETITION



The top 10 producers of copper comprise approximately 50 percent of total worldwide mined copper production. We currently rank second among those producers at approximately eight percent of total worldwide estimated mined copper production. Our competitive position is based on the quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs compared with other producers. We have a diverse portfolio of mining operations with varying ore grades and cost structures. Our costs are driven by the location, grade and nature of our ore bodies and the level of input costs, including energy, labor and equipment. The metals markets are cyclical and our ability to maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce and to manage our costs.





LABOR MATTERS



AtDecember 31, 2012, we employed approximately 34,000 people (approximately 12,700 in Indonesia, 11,800 in North America, 5,400 in South America, 3,200 in Africa and 900 in Europe and other locations). Additionally, we have contractors that have personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 10,700 at our Grasbergminerals district, 10,400 at our South America mining operations, 4,000 at our Tenke Fungurume minerals district, 1,600 in North America and 400 at Atlantic Copper.



The number of employees represented by unions at December 31, 2012, and the expiration date of the applicable union agreements are listed below. Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for further information on labor agreements.

LocationNumber of UnionsNumber ofUnion-Represented EmployeesExpiration DatePT Freeport Indonesia – Indonesia18,774September 2013Tenke Fungurume – DRC63,216August 2013aCerro Verde – Peru21,674August 2014El Abra – Chile2969May 2016Candelaria – Chile2908December 2016Atlantic Copper – Spain2422December 2011bChino – New Mexico1344November 2014Rotterdam – The Netherlands257March 2015Bayway – New Jersey140April 2013Aurex – Chile141December 2013Stowmarket – United Kingdom139May 2014



a.  In September 2012, TFM negotiated a 4-year salary scale with union-represented employees.

b.  Negotiations are in progress while employees continue to work under the provisions of the expired contract.













ENVIRONMENTAL AND RECLAMATION MATTERS



The cost of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of our business. For information about environmental regulation, litigation and related costs, refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors”, and Notes 1 and13.





COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS



We have adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities where we operate and are designed to guide our practices and programs in a manner that respects basic human rights and the culture of the local people impacted by our operations. We continue to make significant expenditures on community development, education, training and cultural programs, which include:



•comprehensive job training programs

•basic education programs

•public health programs, including malaria control and HIV testing

•agricultural assistance programs

•small and medium enterprise development programs

•cultural preservation programs

•water and sewage treatment projects

•clean water access

•charitable donations



In December 2000, we endorsed the joint U.S. State Department-British Foreign Office Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security (Voluntary Principles). Several major natural resources companies and international human rights organizations participated in developing the Voluntary Principles and have endorsed them. We participated in developing these principles and they are incorporated into our human rights policy.



We are assessing how to best integrate the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights into our existing human rights policy. We joined a multi-industry human rights working group to help us learn from peer companies and determine the best way to integrate human rights due diligence into our business practices and to support our Voluntary Principles program.



We believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and should help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid disruptions of mining operations. As part of our ongoing, annual commitment to sustainable community development, we have made significant investments in social programs, including in-kind support and administration, across our global operations. Over the last three years, these investments have averaged approximately $180 million per year. Nevertheless, social and political instability in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. Refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for further discussion.



South America. Cerro Verde has provided a variety of community support projects over the years. Following engagements with regional and local governments, civic leaders and development agencies, in 2006, Cerro Verde committed to support the costs for a new potable water treatment plant to serve Arequipa. In addition, an agreement was reached with the Peruvian government for development of a water storage and distribution network, which was financed by the Cerro Verde Civil Association (the Association). The Association manages contributions made by Cerro Verde for projects that focus on education, training, health, cultural preservation and basic infrastructure.



In 2011, Cerro Verde reached agreement with the Regional Government of Arequipa, the National Government, SEDAPAR and other local institutions to allow it to finance the engineering and construction of a wastewater treatment plant for Arequipa, should Cerro Verde proceed with plans for the large-scale expansion. Treating this water would improve the Rio Chili's water quality, enhance agriculture products grown in the area and reduce waterborne illnesses.



Additionally, during 2006, the Peruvian government announced that all mining companies operating in Peru would be required to make annual contributions to local development funds for a five-year period (covering the years 2006 through 2010) when copper prices exceeded certain levels that were adjusted annually. The contribution, which expired in 2010, was equal to 3.75 percent of after-tax profits.











Indonesia. In 1996, PT Freeport Indonesia established the Freeport Partnership Fund for Community Development (the Partnership Fund), through which PT Freeport Indonesia has made available funding and technical assistance to support community development initiatives in the areas of health, education and economic development of the area. PT Freeport Indonesia has committed through 2016 to provide one percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its area of operation through the Partnership Fund. Our share of contributions to the Partnership Fund totaled$39 millionin2012,$50 millionin2011and$64 millionin2010.



The Amungme and Kamoro Community Development Organization (Lembaga Pembangunan Masyarakat Amungme dan Kamoroor LPMAK) oversees disbursement of the program funds we contribute to the Partnership Fund. LPMAK is governed by a board of commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives from the local Amungme and Kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church leaders, and one representative of PT Freeport Indonesia on each board. The Amungme and Kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of operations.



Security Matters.Consistent with our COW in Indonesia and the requirement to protect our employees and property, we have taken appropriate steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. As part of its security program, PT Freeport Indonesia maintains its own internal security department, which is unarmed and performs functions such as protecting company facilities, monitoring shipments of supplies and products, assisting in traffic control and aiding in emergency response operations. The security department has received human rights training and each member is required to certify his or her compliance with our human rights policy.



PT Freeport Indonesia’s share of costs for its internal civilian security department totaled $52 million for2012, $37 million for2011and $28 million for2010.



PT Freeport Indonesia, and all businesses and residents of Indonesia, rely on the Indonesian government for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule of law and the protection of personnel and property. The Grasberg minerals district has been designated by the Indonesian government as one of Indonesia’s vital national assets. This designation results in the police, and to a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area of our operations. The Indonesian government is responsible for employing police and military personnel and directing their operations.



From the outset of PT Freeport Indonesia’s operations, the Indonesian government has looked to PT Freeport Indonesia to provide logistical and infrastructure support and assistance for these necessary services because of the limited resources of the Indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development in Papua. PT Freeport Indonesia’s financial support for the Indonesian government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property, better

ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the logistical resources to patrol PT Freeport Indonesia’s roads and secure its operating area. In addition, the provision of such support is consistent with PT Freeport Indonesia’s obligations under the COW, reflects our philosophy of responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to pursue practices that will promote human rights.



PT Freeport Indonesia’s share of support costs for the government-provided security was $22 million in2012, and $14 million for each of the years2011and2010. This supplemental support consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel, travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police.



Refer to Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for further discussion of security risks in Indonesia.



Africa. TFM has committed to assist the communities living within its concession in the Katanga province of the DRC. Initiatives include an integrated malaria control program, construction and operational support for six elementary schools, as well as renovation and construction of an additional four schools, installation of over 70 clean water wells, a public sanitation (latrines and hand washing) program reaching over 2,000 households, a mobile clinic for rural villages, and economic development programs supporting micro-credit and development of local entrepreneurs, contractors, and farmers. We have also made significant investments in infrastructure in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including upgrading a portion of a national road and the regional power generation and transmission systems.











TFM has also committed to contribute 0.3 percent of net sales revenue from production to a community development fund to assist the local communities with development of local infrastructure and related services. This fund will be a platform to work jointly with the local government and community to further assist them to fulfill their local development plans, meet basic community needs and promote good governance. Community development fund contributions totaled$4 millionin both2012and2011, and$3 millionin2010.



Security Matters. TFM maintains an unarmed internal security department. The national government also has assigned Mines Police to the TFM concession area. The Mines Police are a division of the Congolese National Police and are responsible for maintaining security in mining concessions throughout the DRC. TFM provides food, housing, monetary allowances and logistical support as well as direct payments to the government for the provision of the security assigned to the concession area. The total cost to TFM for this support, including in-kind support, totaled less than $1 million in each of the years2012,2011and2010.



TFM also participates in monthly security coordination meetings with host country security personnel, other mining companies, and representatives from the United Nations to discuss security issues and concerns.





ORE RESERVES



Recoverable proven and probable reserves summarized below and detailed on the following pages have been calculated as of

December 31, 2012

, in accordance with Industry Guide 7 as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Proven and probable reserves may not be comparable to similar information regarding mineral reserves disclosed in accordance with the guidance of other countries. Proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. The term “reserve,” as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term “proven reserves” means reserves for which (1) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (2) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (3) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. The term “probable reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation.



Our reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. We conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. We revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies. Our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees; a majority of these estimates are reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology and reserve determination.



Estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves atDecember 31, 2012, were determined using long-term average prices of$2.00per pound for copper,$750per ounce for gold and$10per pound for molybdenum, consistent with the long-term average prices used at year-end2011and2010. For the three-year period endedDecember 31, 2012, LME spot copper prices averaged$3.67per pound, London PM gold prices averaged$1,480per ounce, and the weekly average price of molybdenum quoted byMetals Weekaveraged$14.64per pound.











The recoverable proven and probable reserves presented in the table below represent the estimated metal quantities from which we expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. Recoverable reserves are the part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.

Recoverable Proven and Probable Reserves at December 31, 2012Coppera(billion pounds)Gold(million ounces)Molybdenum(billion pounds)Silverb(million ounces)Cobaltb(billion pounds)North America38.80.42.6994.0—South America38.81.20.73110.8—Indonesia31.030.9—116.6—Africa7.9———0.84Consolidated basisc116.532.53.42321.40.84Net equity interestd93.229.43.08264.20.47

a.Recoverable copper reserves include2.9 billionpounds in leach stockpiles and1.4 billionpounds in mill stockpiles (refer to “Mill and Leach Stockpiles” for further discussion).

b.Determined using long-term average prices of$15per ounce for silver and$10per pound for cobalt,consistent with the long-term average prices used at year-end2011and2010.

c.Consolidated basis reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia.

d.Net equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership.















Recoverable Proven and Probable Reserves

Estimated at December 31, 2012

Proven ReservesProbable Reserves

Average Ore GradeAverage Ore Grade

ProcessingMillionCopperGoldMolySilverCobaltMillionCopperGoldMolySilverCobalt

Methodmetric tons%g/t%g/t%metric tons%g/t%g/t%

North America

MorenciMill6800.50—0.021——50.45—0.015——

Crushed leach4170.52————50.47————

ROM leach2,8260.18————850.15————

BagdadMill1,0160.34—a0.0211.59—2250.30—a0.0181.59—

ROM leach2670.12————2230.10————

SaffordCrushed leach1170.43————690.41————

SierritaMill2,4070.24—a0.0261.43—2990.21—a0.0201.28—

ROM leach100.19————70.18————

MiamiROM leach330.52————80.43————

TyroneROM leach1290.29————90.20————

ChinoMill1060.570.040.0100.48—640.560.040.0050.47—

ROM leach1640.31————570.28————

HendersonMill111——0.172——2——0.169——

ClimaxMill74——0.183——124——0.152——

CobrebROM leach700.40————30.29————

8,4270.27—a0.0160.61—1,1850.22—a0.0250.65—

South America

Cerro VerdeMill9950.40—0.0161.64—2,9970.37—0.0141.51—

Crushed leach430.52————650.42————

ROM leach220.21————720.20————

El AbraCrushed leach4170.51————1110.44————

ROM leach1370.33————600.22————

CandelariaMill3020.570.13—2.03—130.600.15—2.20—

Ojos del SaladoMill31.070.29—4.39—20.830.16—3.36—

1,9190.440.020.0081.17—3,3200.37—a0.0131.38—

Indonesia

Grasberg open pitMill1620.991.18—2.67—960.750.63—2.05—

Deep Ore ZoneMill570.580.72—2.45—1190.560.71—2.29—

Big GossanMill142.471.11—15.97—402.180.92—13.09—

Grasberg Block CavebMill3491.221.01—3.73—6500.900.65—3.44—

Kucing LiarbMill1491.331.13—7.58—2711.201.03—6.06—

Deep Mill Level ZonebMill690.920.74—4.61—4480.830.70—4.14—

8001.151.03—4.43—1,6240.930.74—4.14—

Africa

Tenke FungurumeAgitation leach523.49———0.39673.09———0.32

Total FCX - 100% Basis11,1980.380.080.0130.97—a6,1960.520.190.0121.95—a



a.Grade not shown because of rounding.

b.Undeveloped reserves that would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production.



The reserve table above and the tables on the following pages utilize the abbreviations described below:



•g/t – grams per metric ton

•Moly – Molybdenum

•ROM – Run of Mine











Recoverable Proven and Probable ReservesEstimated at December 31, 2012(continued)Average Ore GradeRecoveriesaProven andProbableProcessingMillionCopperGoldMolySilverCobaltCopperGoldMolySilverCobaltMethodmetric tons%g/t%g/t%%%%%%North AmericaMorenciMill6850.50—0.021——79.3—47.1——Crushed leach4220.52————78.1————ROM leach2,9110.18————44.3————BagdadMill1,2410.34—b0.0211.59—85.859.170.849.3—ROM leach4900.12————24.2————SaffordCrushed leach1860.42————65.9————SierritaMill2,7060.23—b0.0251.41—83.960.075.749.3—ROM leach170.19————52.3————MiamiROM leach410.51————61.8————TyroneROM leach1380.28————60.1————ChinoMill1700.570.040.0080.48—78.877.944.078.5—ROM leach2210.30————42.9————HendersonMill113——0.172————84.7——ClimaxMill198——0.164————88.9——CobrecROM leach730.39————50.7————9,612South AmericaCerro VerdeMill3,9920.38—0.0151.54—86.2—54.344.9—Crushed leach1080.46————79.7————ROM leach940.20————48.7————El AbraCrushed leach5280.49————57.0————ROM leach1970.30————26.4————CandelariaMill3150.570.13—2.03—89.271.9—76.3—Ojos del SaladoMill50.980.24—3.99—90.360.9—65.7—5,239IndonesiaGrasberg open pitMill2580.900.98—2.44—83.780.6—42.9—Deep Ore ZoneMill1760.570.71—2.34—86.777.5—64.2—Big GossanMill542.260.97—13.84—91.666.1—63.8—Grasberg Block CavecMill9991.010.78—3.54—84.264.8—57.2—Kucing LiarcMill4201.251.07—6.60—85.846.3—38.5—Deep Mill Level ZonecMill5170.840.70—4.20—87.179.0—64.6—2,424AfricaTenke FungurumeAgitation leach1193.26———0.3586.0———75.6Total FCX - 100% Basis17,394

a.Recoveries are net of estimated mill and smelter losses.

b.Grade not shown because of rounding.

c.Undeveloped reserves that would require additional capital investment, which could be significant, to bring into production.















Recoverable Proven and Probable Reserves

Estimated at December 31, 2012

(continued)

Recoverable Reserves

CopperGoldMolySilverCobalt

FCX’sProcessingbillionmillionbillionmillionbillion

InterestMethodlbs.ozs.lbs.ozs.lbs.

North America

Morenci85%Mill6.0—0.15——

Crushed leach3.8————

ROM leach5.0————

Bagdad100%Mill7.90.10.4031.4—

ROM leach0.3————

Safford100%Crushed leach1.2————

Sierrita100%Mill11.70.11.1560.6—

ROM leach—a————

Miami100%ROM leach0.3————

Tyrone100%ROM leach0.5————

Chino100%Mill1.70.20.012.0—

ROM leach0.6————

Henderson100%Mill——0.36——

Climax100%Mill——0.64——

Cobre100%ROM leach0.3————

39.30.42.7194.0—

Recoverable metal in stockpilesb1.8——a——

100% operations41.10.42.7194.0—

Consolidatedc38.80.42.6994.0—

Net equity interestd38.80.42.6994.0—

South America

Cerro Verde53.56%Mill28.5—0.7189.0—

Crushed leach0.9————

ROM leach0.2————

El Abra51%Crushed leach3.3————

ROM leach0.3————

Candelaria80%Mill3.51.0—15.7—

Ojos del Salado80%Mill0.1—a—0.4—

36.81.00.71105.1—

Recoverable metal in stockpilesb2.00.20.025.7—

100% operations38.81.20.73110.8—

Consolidatedc38.81.20.73110.8—

Net equity interestd21.81.00.3964.5—

Indonesia

Grasberg open piteMill4.36.5—8.7—

Deep Ore ZoneeMill1.93.1—8.5—

Big GossaneMill2.51.1—15.4—

Grasberg Block CaveeMill18.816.2—65.1—

Kucing LiareMill9.96.7—34.3—

Deep Mill Level ZoneeMill8.39.2—45.1—

100% operations45.742.8—177.1—

Consolidatedc31.030.9—116.6—

Net equity interestd28.128.0—105.7—

Africa

Tenke Fungurume56%Agitation leach7.3———0.69

Recoverable metal in stockpilesb0.6———0.15

100% operations7.9———0.84

Consolidatedc7.9———0.84

Net equity interestd4.5———0.47



Total FCX –  100% basis133.544.43.44381.90.84

Total FCX –  Consolidated basisc116.532.53.42321.40.84

Total FCX –  Net equity interestd93.229.43.08264.20.47

a.Amounts not shown because of rounding.

b.Refer to "Mill and Leach Stockpiles" for additional information.

c.Consolidated basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia.

d.Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership.

e.Our joint venture agreement with Rio Tinto provides that PT Freeport Indonesia will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and silver through 2021, calculated by reference to its proven and probable reserves as of December 31, 1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash flow.











In defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a “variable cutoff grade” strategy. The objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our operations. We use a break-even cutoff grade to define the in-situ reserves for our underground ore bodies. The break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs associated with our production.



Our copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold, molybdenum, silver and cobalt. We value all commercially recoverable metals in terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade. Copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. The calculation expresses the relative value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties. Our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade.



The table below shows the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as ofDecember 31, 2012:



Copper Equivalent Cutoff Grade (Percent)MolybdenumCutoff Grade(Percent)MillCrushed orAgitation LeachROMLeachMillNorth AmericaMorenci0.250.190.03—Bagdad0.20—0.01—Safford—0.12——Sierrita0.18—0.07—Miami——0.05—Tyrone——0.05—Chino0.20—0.08—Henderson———0.12Climax———0.06Cobre——0.17—South AmericaCerro Verde0.170.190.14—El Abra—0.110.08—Candelaria0.24———Ojos del Salado0.64———IndonesiaGrasberg open pit0.25———Deep Ore Zone0.70———Big Gossan1.80———Grasberg Block Cave0.69———Kucing Liar0.80———Deep Mill Level Zone0.71———AfricaTenke Fungurume—1.23——











Drill hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. Drill hole spacing is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification. Drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of development of a mineral deposit.



The following table sets forth the average drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for proven and probable ore reserves by process type:



Average Drill Hole Spacing (in Meters)ProvenProbableMining UnitMillLeachMillLeachNorth AmericaMorenciOpen Pit8686122122BagdadOpen Pit8686122122SaffordOpen Pit—86—122SierritaOpen Pit733712075MiamiOpen Pit—61—91TyroneOpen Pit—86—86ChinoOpen Pit438686122HendersonBlock Cave38—85—ClimaxOpen Pit61—122—CobreOpen Pit—61—91South AmericaCerro VerdeOpen Pit5050100100El AbraOpen Pit—75—120CandelariaOpen Pit35—70—Ojos del SaladoSublevel Stoping25—50—IndonesiaGrasbergOpen Pit32—88—Deep Ore ZoneBlock Cave23—58—Big GossanOpen Stope14—44—GrasbergBlock Cave30—78—Kucing LiarBlock Cave39—100—Deep Mill Level ZoneBlock Cave21—80—AfricaTenke FungurumeOpen Pit—50—100











Production Sequencing

The following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing our proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body. The chart also shows the term of PT Freeport Indonesia’s COW. Production volumes are typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life. The ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. In addition, we develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore bodies. Significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected below.







Mill and Leach Stockpiles

Mill and leach stockpiles generally contain lower grade ores that have been extracted from the ore body and are available for copper recovery. For mill stockpiles, recovery is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or, alternatively, by concentrate leaching. For leach stockpiles, recovery is through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver it in solution to extraction processing facilities.



Because it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. The quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles.



Expected copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical testing. The recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the production process, can be produced into copper concentrate almost immediately.













Expected copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the production-scale process), historical trends and other factors, including mineralogy of the ore and rock type. Ultimate recovery of copper contained in leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90 percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery, mineralogy and particle size of the rock. For newly placed material on active stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over many years.



Processes and recovery rates are monitored continuously, and recovery rate estimates are adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related technology changes.



Following are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those stockpiles as ofDecember 31, 2012:RecoverableMillions ofAverageRecoveryCopperMetric TonsGrade (%)Rate (%)(billion pounds)Mill stockpilesCerro Verde1030.4081.80.7Candelaria940.3683.30.71971.4Leach stockpilesMorenci5,1880.252.10.6Bagdad4790.262.70.1Safford1350.4419.60.2Sierrita6500.1512.20.3Miami4710.382.00.1Tyrone1,0530.282.40.1Chino1,6170.264.7a0.4aCerro Verde4280.532.70.1El Abra4520.4011.50.5Tenke Fungurume221.2192.50.610,4953.0Total FCX - 100% basis4.4Total FCX - Consolidated basisb4.3Total FCX - Net equity interestc3.3

a.During 2012, we completed an assessment of estimated future recovery rates within the current mine plan at our Chino leaching operations, which resulted in a downward revision of these rates and a corresponding reduction of 594 million pounds of estimated recoverable copper in Chino's leach stockpiles.

b.Consolidated basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for our joint venture partner’s interest in the Morenci mine in North America.

c.Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership.





MINERALIZED MATERIAL



We hold various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be brought into production should market conditions warrant. However, permitting and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could commence at these properties. Mineralized material is a mineralized body that has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. Such a deposit cannot qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. Estimated mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using prices of$2.20per pound for copper,$1,000per ounce for gold and$12per pound for molybdenum.











Mineralized MaterialEstimated at December 31, 2012Milling MaterialLeaching MaterialTotal Mineralized MaterialMillionMillionMillionFCX’smetricCopperGoldMolymetricCoppermetricCopperGoldMolyInteresttons%g/t%tons%tons%g/t%North AmericaMorenci85%5960.35—0.0202,2780.212,8740.24—0.004Bagdada100%5230.29—b0.019500.115730.27—b0.017Safforda100%4800.520.090.0041710.246510.440.080.003Sierritaa100%1,5880.18—b0.022210.151,6090.18—b0.021Miami100%————110.50110.50——Tyrone100%————980.28980.28——Chino100%620.49—0.013220.30840.44—0.011Henderson100%159——0.148——159——0.148Climax100%390——0.156——390——0.156Cobre100%390.51——40.25430.48——Ajoa100%9480.320.060.006——9480.320.060.006Cochise/Bisbee100%————2760.442760.44——Lone Star100%————6560.446560.44——Sanchez100%————1750.291750.29——Tohono100%2040.70——2580.644620.67——Twin Buttesa100%4450.40—0.025530.214980.38—0.022South AmericaCerro Verdea53.56%5950.37—0.015420.476370.38—0.014El Abra51%1,4840.43——3160.251,8000.40——Candelariaa80%680.550.13———680.550.13—IndonesiaGrasberg minerals districta54.38%c2,3410.630.55———2,3410.630.55—AfricaTenke Fungurumed56%723.60——183.22903.52——Kisanfud95%562.33——522.941082.62——Total FCX - 100% basis10,0500.430.140.0174,5010.3414,5510.400.100.012Total FCX - Consolidated basise9,0244,15913,183Total FCX - Net equity interestf7,8423,97411,815

a.Stated tonnage also includes silver at Bagdad (1.1 g/t), Safford (1.6 g/t), Sierrita (1.1 g/t), Ajo (0.9 g/t), Twin Buttes (2.1 g/t), Cerro Verde (1.4 g/t), Candelaria (1.9 g/t) and the Grasberg minerals district (3.4 g/t).

b.Amounts not shown because of rounding.

c.FCX's interest in the Grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest ownership.

d.Stated tonnage also includes cobalt at Tenke Fungurume (0.31 percent) and Kisanfu (1.08 percent).

e.Consolidated basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for our joint venture partners' interest in the Morenci mine and the Grasberg minerals district.

f.Net equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis mineralized material further reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership.











