ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

We design, develop, manufacture and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles and advanced electric vehicle powertrain components. We
have established our own network of sales and service centers and Supercharger stations globally thus creating a unique business model in the automobile industry. We have operationally structured our business in a manner that we believe will enable
us to rapidly develop and launch advanced electric vehicles and technologies. We believe our vehicles, electric vehicle engineering expertise, and operational structure differentiates us from incumbent automobile manufacturers.

We are currently producing and selling our second vehicle, the Model S sedan. Model S is a four door, five-passenger premium sedan that
offers exceptional performance, functionality and attractive styling. The Model S inherited many of the electric powertrain innovations we introduced with our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster which was launched in 2008 and was the first
commercially produced and federally compliant EV in the United States. We completed production of approximately 2,500 Tesla Roadsters in January 2012 and began deliveries of Model S in June 2012. As of December 31, 2013, we have delivered over
25,000 Model S vehicles in North America and Europe. In 2014, we expect to grow our presence in several international markets with deliveries to commence in China, Japan, the United Kingdom and Australia. Since its launch, Model S has won several
awards, including the prestigiousMotor TrendCar of the Year for 2013. In November 2013, Model S received 99 out of 100 in an owner survey conducted byConsumer Reports, the highest customer satisfaction score of any car in the world.
Our goal is to deliver the highest possible level of ownership satisfaction in every way.

We are adapting the platform
architecture of Model S to develop our Model X crossover. This unique vehicle has been designed to fill the niche between the roominess of a minivan and the style of an SUV, while having high performance features such as a dual motor all-wheel drive
system. We revealed a prototype of Model X in February 2012. We currently expect to have production design Model X prototypes on the road by end of year and begin volume deliveries to customers in the spring of 2015. We have also publicly announced
our intent to develop a third generation electric vehicle, to which we refer as “Gen III”, which we intend to offer at a lower price point and produce at higher volumes than our Model S in approximately three years.

We are also building a network of Superchargers in the United States and Europe to enable free and convenient long distance driving.
Superchargers allow Model S owners to replenish 50% of the battery pack in as little as 20 minutes. Supercharger stations are strategically placed along well-travelled highways to allow Model S owners to enjoy long distance travel with convenient,
minimal stops. As of February 19, 2014, we had 90 Supercharger stations open in North America and Europe. We plan to continue to open Supercharger stations in these regions as well as in Asia during 2014 and expect to triple our Supercharger
stations during 2014. We expect that Model X and our future cars will be able to use this network.

We sell and service our
electric vehicles through our company-owned sales and service network in North America, Europe and Asia. Our intent is to offer a compelling customer experience while gathering rapid customer feedback and achieving operating efficiencies, better
control over the costs of inventory, warranty service, pricing, and the development of the Tesla brand. Our Tesla stores do not carry large vehicle inventories and, as a result, do not require corresponding large floor spaces. We believe the
benefits we receive from distribution ownership will enable us to improve the speed of product development and improve the capital efficiency of our business. We believe that this approach provides us with a competitive advantage as compared to
incumbent automobile manufacturers.

In addition to developing our own vehicles, we provide services for the development of
full electric powertrain systems and components, and sell electric powertrain components to other automotive manufacturers. We have provided development services and powertrain components to Daimler AG (Daimler) for its Smart fortwo, A-Class, and
B-Class electric vehicles. We also have developed a full electric powertrain system for







Toyota Motor Corporation (Toyota) for use in its RAV4 EV and began shipping production components to Toyota in 2012. We also plan to start selling stationary energy storage products for use in
homes, commercial sites, and utilities. The applications for these battery systems include backup power, peak demand reduction, demand response, and wholesale electric market services.

We conduct our powertrain and vehicle manufacturing and assembly operations at the Tesla Factory, our integrated manufacturing facility
in Fremont, California, and at our facility in Tilburg, Netherlands. We have recently indicated our intention to build the Tesla Gigafactory, a facility in the United States where we intend to manufacture cells and battery packs for our vehicles and
our stationary storage applications.

Our fully electric vehicles combine zero tailpipe emissions, market leading range on a
single charge, impressive acceleration, and pricing competitive with other vehicles in their classes. For example, our Model S accelerates from zero to 60 miles per hour in as little as 4.2 seconds and has a range on a single charge of up to 265
miles. We offer Model S with 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options. Model S has an effective base price of $62,400 and $72,400 in the United States for the 60 kWh and 85 kWh options, respectively, assuming and after giving effect to the
continuation of a United States federal tax credit of $7,500 for the purchase of alternative fuel vehicles. Even without the tax credit, we believe our list prices are competitive from a pricing perspective with other premium vehicles. We believe
that Model S demonstrates our ability to produce increasingly affordable electric vehicles that offer long-range capabilities and uncompromised performance, energy efficiency, convenience and design.

The commercial production of a highway capable, fully electric vehicle that meets consumers’ range and performance expectations
requires substantial design, engineering, and integration work on almost every system of our vehicles. Our roots in Silicon Valley have enabled us to recruit engineers with strong skills in electrical engineering, power electronics and software
engineering. We have complemented this talent base with automotive engineers with substantial expertise in vehicle engineering and manufacturing. Our ability to combine expertise in electric powertrain and vehicle engineering provides a broad
capability in electric vehicle design and systems integration. We believe these capabilities, coupled with our focus solely on electric vehicle technology as well as our strong in-house engineering and highly vertical manufacturing capacity, will
enable us to sustain the electric vehicle industry leadership we created through the production of the Tesla Roadster and Model S.

Our battery pack and electric powertrain system has enabled us to deliver market-leading range capability on our vehicles at what we believe is a compelling battery cost per kilowatt-hour. Our battery
packs use custom electric vehicle lithium-ion battery cells and contain two to three times the energy of any other commercially available electric vehicle battery pack, thereby significantly increasing the range capabilities of our vehicles.
Designing an electric powertrain and a vehicle to exploit its energy efficiency has required extensive safety testing and innovation in battery packs, motors, powertrain systems and vehicle engineering. Our proprietary technology includes cooling
systems, safety systems, charge balancing systems, battery engineering for vibration and environmental durability, customized motor design and the software and electronics management systems necessary to manage battery and vehicle performance under
demanding real-life driving conditions. These technology innovations have resulted in an extensive intellectual property portfolio—as of December 31, 2013, we had 203 issued patents and more than 280 pending patent applications with the
United States Patent and Trademark Office and internationally in a broad range of areas, including the battery pack and other technologies.

We are designing our vehicles to enable the cost effective development of our future vehicles. For example, we have designed Model S with a platform architecture, which compactly positions the battery
pack, motor and other elements of our powertrain within the frame of the vehicle. We believe this architecture may form the basis of several future vehicles, including our planned Model X, and enable us to efficiently and cost effectively launch
these new vehicle models in the future.

Our design and vehicle engineering capabilities, combined with the technical
advancements of our powertrain system, have enabled us to design and develop zero tailpipe emission vehicles that we believe







overcome the design, styling, and performance issues that we believe have historically limited broad consumer adoption of electric vehicles. As a result, we believe our customers enjoy several
benefits, including:



•Long Range and Recharging Flexibility.Our vehicles offer ranges that are over double the range of any other commercially available electric
vehicle. In addition, our vehicles incorporate our proprietary on-board charging system, permitting recharging from almost any available electrical outlet. Our Model S vehicles also offer fast charging capability from our Supercharger network.
We believe the long-range and charging flexibility of our vehicles will help reduce consumer anxiety over range, alleviate the need for expensive, large-scale charging infrastructure, and differentiate our vehicles as compared to our
competitors’ currently announced electric vehicle product offerings.



•Energy Efficiency and Cost of Ownership.We believe our vehicles offer consumers an attractive cost of ownership when compared to similar
internal combustion engine or hybrid electric vehicles. Using only a single electric powertrain enables us to create a lighter, more energy efficient vehicle that is mechanically simpler than currently available hybrid or internal combustion engine
vehicles. We currently estimate that the cost to fuel our vehicles is approximately one-fifth that of comparable internal combustion vehicles in the United States, and even less internationally where gasoline prices are typically higher. We also
expect our electric vehicles will have lower relative maintenance costs than hybrid, plug-in hybrid, or internal combustion engine vehicles due to fewer moving parts and the absence of certain components, including oil, oil filters, spark plugs and
engine valves. Additionally, government incentives that are currently available can reduce the cost of ownership even further.



•High-Performance Without Compromised Design or Functionality.We believe we have been able to successfully overcome the design and performance
tradeoff issues that encumbered most early electric vehicle designs. We believe our vehicles deliver unparalleled driving experiences with instantaneous and sustained acceleration through an extended range of speed. In addition, our Model S
seats five adults, provides best in class storage in the trunk and hood while offering design and performance comparable to, or better than, other premium sedans.

Our Vehicles and Products

We currently design, develop, manufacture and
sell fully electric vehicles and electric powertrain components. We are currently selling primarily the Model S.

Model S

Model S is a fully electric, four-door, five-adult passenger sedan that offers compelling range and performance with zero tailpipe emissions. We began customer deliveries in June 2012. As of
December 31, 2013, we had delivered over 25,000 Model S vehicles.

Model S offers a range on a single charge of up to 265
miles. To complement this range, we also offer the capability to fast charge Model S at our Supercharger facilities. In addition, we designed Model S to incorporate a modular battery pack in the floor of the vehicle, enabling it to be rapidly
swapped out at certain of our service centers and specialized commercial battery exchange facilities that we anticipate may be available in the future.

We believe Model S offers a unique combination of functionality, convenience, safety and styling without compromising performance and energy efficiency. With the battery pack in the floor of the vehicle
and the motor and gearbox in line with the rear axle, Model S provides best in class storage space of 31.6 cubic feet, including storage under both the tailgate and the hood. By way of comparison, this storage space exceeds the approximately 14
cubic feet of storage available in the 2014 BMW 5 Series sedan and the approximately 18 cubic feet of storage available in the 2014 Cadillac XTS. In addition, we have designed Model S to include a third row with two rear-facing child seats,
allowing us to offer seating for five adults and two children. Model S is also available with premium luxury features, including a 17 inch touch screen driver interface, advanced







wireless connectivity, such as 3G connectivity, and driver customization of the infotainment and climate control systems of the vehicle. We designed Model S to be incorporate new functionality
through wireless updates, which allows us to continually improve Model S over time. Model S has also achieved a five star safety rating. We believe the combination of performance, safety, styling, convenience and energy efficiency of Model S
positions it as a compelling alternative to other vehicles in the luxury and performance segments.

The 60 kWh and 85 kWh
battery pack options of Model S have an effective base price of $62,400, and $72,400, respectively, in the United States, assuming and after giving effect to the continuation of a United States federal tax credit of $7,500 for the purchase of
alternative fuel vehicles. We also offer a performance version of Model S for an effective base price of $85,900.

We have
designed Model S to provide a lower cost of ownership as compared to other vehicles in its class. We consider the purchase price, cost of fuel and the cost of maintenance over a six year ownership period in this calculation. We assume comparable
residual values, warranties, insurance costs and promotions and assume that currently available consumer incentives are still available at the time of a Model S purchase. In addition to the competitive pricing of Model S relative to other
premium vehicles, we estimate that customers of electric vehicles will enjoy lower fuel costs. For example, assuming an average of 15,000 miles driven per year, an average electricity cost of 11.8 cents per kilowatt-hour and an average gasoline
price of $3.24 per gallon over the full ownership of the vehicle which were the average electricity cost and gasoline price in the United States, respectively, for December 2013, and based on our estimate of the energy efficiency of Model S, we
estimate that our Model S could save approximately $1,800 per year less in fuel costs than a comparable premium internal combustion engine sedan. In international markets, where gasoline prices can be 2-3 times those of the United States, the
savings are greater. Furthermore, we expect Model S will have lower maintenance costs than comparable premium internal combustion engine sedans due to fewer moving parts and the absence of certain components, including oil, oil filters, spark plugs
and engine valves.

We have designed Model S with an adaptable platform architecture and common electric powertrain that we
intend to leverage to create future electric vehicle models, including our Model X. In particular, by designing our electric powertrain within the chassis to accommodate different vehicle body styles, we believe that we can save significant time in
future vehicle development. In addition, we believe our strategy of using currently available battery cells will enable us to leverage improvements in cell chemistries and rapidly introduce planned vehicles with different range options.

The Tesla Roadster

Our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, is the first high-performance electric sports car. The two-seat, convertible Tesla Roadster has a combination of range, style, performance and energy efficiency that
we believe is unmatched in the market today. It can accelerate from zero to 60 miles per hour in as little as 3.7 seconds and has a maximum speed of approximately 120 miles per hour. The Tesla Roadster also has a range of 245 miles on a single
charge, as determined using the United States EPA’s combined two-cycle city/highway test. We have sold approximately 2,500 Tesla Roadsters to customers in over 30 countries, predominately in North America and Europe. We concluded the production
run of the Tesla Roadster in January 2012.

Model X

In February 2012, we revealed an early prototype of the Model X crossover as the first vehicle we intend to develop by leveraging the
Model S platform. This unique vehicle has been designed to fill the niche between the roominess of a minivan and the style of an SUV, while having high performance features such as a dual motor all-wheel drive system. Model X will seat seven adults.
We anticipate that we will make Model X available with 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options, with pricing of each version similar to those of a comparably equipped Model S. We currently intend to target an initial annual production rate of
approximately 20,000 vehicles per year from our Tesla Factory. We expect to have production design Model X prototypes on the road by end of







2014 and begin volume deliveries to customers in the spring of 2015. After its initial launch in the United States, Model X will be sold in all the markets where Model S is available including in
Asia and Europe.

Gen III

We have also publicly announced our intent to develop a third generation electric vehicle, to which we refer as “Gen III”, to be produced at the Tesla Factory. We intend to offer this vehicle at
a lower price point and expect to produce it at higher volumes than our Model S. We expect that this vehicle will be produced in approximately three years.

Powertrain Development and Sales

In addition to our own vehicles,
we also design, develop, manufacture and sell advanced electric vehicle powertrain components to other automotive manufacturers.

We have provided development services and full powertrain systems and components to Daimler for its Smart fortwo, A-Class, and B-Class electric vehicles. From May 2009 through December 2012, we provided
approximately 2,700 battery packs and chargers for the Smart fortwo and A-Class vehicles. We have completed these programs and are now providing development services to Daimler for its B-Class electric vehicle. We also have developed a full electric
powertrain system for Toyota for use in its RAV4 EV and began shipping production systems to Toyota in 2012. As of December 31, 2013 we have shipped over 1,600 units.

We are continuing to perform our electric powertrain component and systems sales and marketing activities principally out of our Palo Alto facility. This facility, which also serves as our corporate
headquarters, houses our research and development services, including cell and component testing and prototyping, as well as manufacturing of powertrain components for sales to third parties. Manufacturing of our powertrain components is performed
at the Tesla Factory.

Stationary Energy Storage Applications

In 2013, we developed stationary energy storage products for use in homes, commercial sites and utilities. The applications for these
battery systems include backup power, peak demand reduction, demand response and wholesale electric market services. We plan to ramp sales of these products in 2014.

Technology

We believe the core competencies of our company are powertrain,
vehicle engineering and innovative manufacturing. Our core intellectual property is contained within our electric powertrain and the ability to design a vehicle which capitalizes on the uniqueness of an electric powertrain. Our electric powertrain
consists of the following: battery pack, power electronics, motor, gearbox and the control software which enables the components to operate as a system. We designed each of these major elements for our Tesla Roadster and Model S and plan to use much
of this technology in Model X, Gen III, our future electric vehicles and powertrain components that we build for other manufacturers. Our powertrain and battery pack have a modular design, enabling future generations of electric vehicles to
incorporate a significant amount of this technology. Further, our powertrain is very compact and contains far fewer moving parts than the internal combustion powertrain. These features enable us to adapt it for a variety of applications, including
our future vehicles and any powertrain components we build for other manufacturers.

Battery Pack

We design our battery packs to safely store significant amounts of energy and to have long lives. For example, we have designed our Tesla
Roadster battery packs to store 53 kilowatt hours of useful energy and to







have an estimated life of over 100,000 miles or seven years. In addition, we have designed our battery packs to be modular so that we can leverage technology developments across our different
vehicles and products. Our proprietary technology includes cooling systems, safety systems, charge balancing systems, battery engineering for vibration and environmental durability, robotic manufacturing processes, customized motor design and the
software and electronics management systems necessary to manage battery and vehicle performance under demanding real-life driving conditions. We have significant experience and expertise in the safety and management systems needed to work with
lithium-ion cells in the demanding automotive environment. We believe these advancements have enabled us to produce a battery pack at a low cost per kilowatt-hour.

We believe one of our core competencies is the design of our complete battery pack system. We have designed our battery pack system to permit flexibility with respect to battery cell chemistry, form
factor and vendor that we adopt for battery cell supply. In so doing, we believe that we can leverage the substantial battery cell investments and advancements being made globally by battery cell manufacturers to continue to improve the cost per
kilowatt-hour of our battery pack. We maintain an internal battery cell testing lab and an extensive performance database of the many available lithium-ion cell vendors and chemistry types. We intend to incorporate the battery cells that provide the
best value and performance possible into our battery packs, and we expect this to continue over time as battery cells continue to improve in energy storage capacity, longevity, power delivery and cost. We believe this flexibility will enable us to
continue to evaluate new battery cells as they become commercially viable, and thereby optimize battery pack system performance and cost for our current and future vehicles. We believe our ability to change battery cell chemistries and vendors while
retaining our existing investments in software, electronics, testing and vehicle packaging, will enable us to quickly deploy various battery cells into our products and leverage the latest advancements in battery cell technology.

The range of our electric vehicles on a single charge declines principally as a function of usage, time and charging patterns.
Customers’ use of their Tesla vehicle as well as the frequency with which they charge the battery of their Tesla vehicle can result in additional deterioration of the battery’s ability to hold a charge. For example, we currently expect
that the Tesla Roadster battery pack will retain approximately 70% of its ability to hold its initial charge after approximately 100,000 miles or seven years, which will result in a decrease to the vehicle’s initial range. In comparison with
the Roadster battery pack, we expect that the retention rate of the Model S battery pack is greater, due to improvements at the battery cell and pack level. In addition, based on internal testing, we estimate that the Model S would have an
approximate 5-10% reduction in range when operated continuously in 0°C temperatures.

To date, we have tested hundreds of
battery cells of different chemistries, form factors and designs. Based on this evaluation, we are presently using lithium-ion battery cells based on the 18650 form factor in all of our battery packs. We intend to use the same battery cell form
factor in Model X. We entered into a supply agreement with Panasonic Corporation (Panasonic) for the use of Panasonic’s battery cells in Model S and Model X. We expect these battery cells to exhibit better performance and longer lifetimes than
the battery cells used in the Tesla Roadster.

Power Electronics

The power electronics in our electric powertrain govern the flow of electrical current throughout the car, primarily the current that
flows into and out of the battery pack. The power electronics have two primary functions, the control of torque generation in the motor while driving and the control of energy delivery back into the battery pack while charging.

The first function is accomplished through the drive inverter, which converts direct current (DC) from the battery pack into alternating
current (AC) to drive our three-phase induction motors. The drive inverter also converts the AC generated by regenerative braking back into DC for electrical storage in the battery pack. The drive inverter performs this function by using a
high-performance digital signal processor which runs some of the most complicated and detailed software in the vehicle. In so doing, the drive inverter is directly responsible for the performance, high efficiency and overall driving experience of
the vehicle.







The second function, charging the battery pack, is accomplished by the charger, which
converts alternating current (usually from a wall outlet or other electricity source) into direct current that can be accepted by the battery. Tesla vehicles can recharge on a variety of AC electrical outlets, from a common outlet of 15 amps and 120
volts up to a high power circuit of 80 amps and 240 volts, which provides faster recharging. The most common home charging system uses a 14-50 type outlet at 40 amps and 240 volts to recharge at an EPA equivalent rate of 29 miles per hour of charge
time.

In the United States, Model S vehicles are delivered with an SAE 1772 industry standard adapter that enables public AC
charging at thousands of stations. The European version of Model S has an industry standard vehicle inlet connector that is also compatible with public charge stations around Europe. Vehicles in both the United States and Europe also come with the
Tesla Mobile Connector which enables charging from a variety of different outlets for customers who want a portable solution with maximum flexibility. For the fastest possible charging, we offer a high-voltage, direct current option for Model S that
enables the vehicle to charge from Tesla’s Supercharger network. Superchargers are able to replenish 50% of the battery pack in as little as 20 minutes of charge time. This flexibility in charging provides customers with additional mobility,
while also allowing them to conveniently charge the vehicle overnight at home.

Vehicle Control and Infotainment
Software

The performance and safety systems of our vehicles and their battery packs require sophisticated control
software. There are numerous processors in our vehicles to control these functions, and we write custom firmware for many of these processors. The flow of electricity between the battery pack and the motor must be tightly controlled in order to
deliver the performance and behavior expected in the vehicle. For example, software algorithms enable the vehicle to mimic the “creep” feeling which drivers expect from an internal combustion engine vehicle without having to apply pressure
on the accelerator. Similar algorithms control traction, vehicle stability and the sustained acceleration and regenerative braking of the vehicle. Software also is used extensively to monitor the charge state of each of the cells of the battery pack
and to manage all of its safety systems. Drivers use the information and control systems in our vehicles to optimize performance, customize vehicle behavior, manage charging modes and times and control all infotainment functions. We develop almost
all of this software, including most of the user interfaces, internally.

Vehicle Design and Engineering

In addition to the design, development and production of the powertrain, we have created significant in-house capabilities in the design
and engineering of electric vehicles and electric vehicle components and systems. We design and engineer bodies, chassis, interiors, heating and cooling and low voltage electrical systems in house and to a lesser extent in conjunction with our
suppliers. Our team has core competencies in computer aided design and crash test simulations which we expect to reduce the product development time of new models.

Several traditional automotive subsystems required substantial redesign and custom optimization to integrate with the powertrain of an electric vehicle. For example, we redesigned the heating, ventilation
and air conditioning (HVAC) system to integrate with the battery thermal management system and to operate without the energy generated from an internal combustion engine. In addition, low voltage electric systems which power features such as the
radio, power windows, and heated seats also needed to be designed specifically for use in an electric vehicle. We have developed expertise in integrating these components with the high-voltage power source in the vehicle and in designing components
that significantly reduce their load on the vehicle battery pack, thereby maximizing the available range of the vehicle.

Additionally, our team has expertise in lightweight materials, a very important characteristic for electric vehicles given the impact of
mass on range. The Tesla Roadster is built with an internally-designed carbon fiber body which provides a balance of strength and mass. Model S is built with a lightweight aluminum body and chassis which incorporates a variety of materials and
production methods that help optimize the weight of the vehicle.







Sales and Marketing

Company-Owned Stores and Galleries

We market and sell cars directly
to consumers through an international network of company-owned stores and galleries. Our Tesla stores and galleries are highly visible, premium outlets in major metropolitan markets, some of which combine retail sales and service. We have also found
that opening a service center in a new geographic area can increase demand. As a result, we have complemented our store strategy with sales facilities and personnel in service centers to more rapidly expand our retail footprint. We refer to these as
“Service Plus” locations. Including our Service Plus locations, we now operate a network of over 80 sales and gallery locations in North America, Europe and Asia. Including all of our sales and service facilities, we currently operate 116
locations. We intend to grow our sales and service network by approximately 75% during the year ending December 31, 2014.

We believe that by owning our own sales and service network we can offer a compelling customer experience while achieving operating
efficiencies and capturing sales and service revenues incumbent automobile manufacturers do not enjoy in the traditional franchised distribution and service model. Our customers deal directly with our own Tesla-employed sales and service staff,
creating what we believe is a differentiated buying experience from the buying experience consumers have with franchised automobile dealers and service centers. We believe we will also be able to better control costs of inventory, manage warranty
service and pricing, maintain and strengthen the Tesla brand, and obtain rapid customer feedback. Further, we believe that by owning our sales network we will avoid the conflict of interest in the traditional dealership structure inherent to most
incumbent automobile manufacturers where the sale of warranty parts and repairs by a dealer are a key source of revenue and profit for the dealer but often are an expense for the vehicle manufacturer.

Tesla Supercharger Network

We are building a network of up to 120 kWh fast charging equipment, each called a Tesla Supercharger, throughout North America and Europe for fast charging of Model S. The Tesla Supercharger is an
industrial grade, high speed charger designed to replenish 50% of the battery pack in as little as 20 minutes. Supercharger stations are strategically placed along well-travelled highways to allow Model S owners to enjoy long distance travel with
convenient, minimal stops. As of February 19, 2014, we have 90 Supercharger stations open in North America and Europe. In the United States, we have implemented Superchargers across a major transcontinental route, as well as along key routes in
the East and West Coasts. In Europe, Superchargers enable long distance travel along key routes in Norway, the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland and Austria. Access to the Supercharger network is currently available free of charge to owners of Model
S vehicles with the 85 kWh battery pack options and when purchased as an upfront option for 60 kWh. We are planning to methodically expand the Supercharger network over the next few years in the United States, Europe and Asia.

Deposits and Reservations

We typically carry a limited inventory of our Model S vehicles at our Tesla stores. While some customers may purchase their vehicles from this inventory, most of our customers choose to customize the
appearance of their vehicle. We require a refundable $2,500 deposit for these orders of our Model S vehicles, which is collected once the customer has selected the vehicle specifications and has entered into a purchase agreement. The refundable
deposit becomes nonrefundable after two weeks. We require full payment of the purchase price of the vehicle only upon delivery of the vehicle to the customer.

For Model X, which is currently not in production, we require an initial refundable reservation payment of at least $5,000. Reservation payments and deposits are used by us to fund, in part, our working
capital requirements and help us to align production with demand.







Marketing

Our principal marketing goals are to:



•generate demand for our vehicles and drive leads to our sales teams;



•build long-term brand awareness and manage corporate reputation;



•manage our existing customer base to create loyalty and customer referrals; and



•enable customer input into the product development process.

Historically, we have been able to generate significant media coverage of our company and our vehicles, and we believe we will continue to do so. To date, media coverage and word of mouth have been the
primary drivers of our sales leads and have helped us achieve sales without traditional advertising and at relatively low marketing costs. We also use traditional means of advertising including product placement in a variety of media outlets and
pay-per-click advertisements on websites and applications relevant to our target demographics.

Our marketing efforts include
events where our vehicles are displayed and demonstrated. These events range from widely attended public events, such as the Detroit, Los Angeles, and Frankfurt auto shows, to smaller events oriented towards sales, such as private drive events.

Service and Warranty

Service

We provide service for our electric vehicles at our
company-owned service centers, at our Service Plus locations or, in certain areas for an additional charge, through Tesla Ranger mobile technicians who provide services that do not require a vehicle lift. We own and operate over 70 service locations
as of February 19, 2014. We are continuing our plan to build a number of additional service centers in several markets worldwide.

Tesla Roadster owners can upload data from their vehicle and send it to us on a memory card and Model S is designed with the capability to wirelessly upload the data to us via an on-board GSM system,
allowing us to diagnose and remedy many problems before ever looking at the vehicle. When maintenance or service is required, a customer can schedule service by contacting one of our Tesla service centers. Our Tesla Rangers can also perform an array
of services that do not require a vehicle lift from the convenience of a customer’s home or other remote location.

We
believe that our company-owned service centers enable our technicians to work closely with our engineers and research and development teams in Silicon Valley to identify problems, find solutions, and incorporate improvements faster than incumbent
automobile manufacturers.

New Vehicle Limited Warranty, Maintenance and Extended Service Plans

For our Model S customers, we provide a four year or 50,000 mile New Vehicle Limited Warranty with every Model S, subject to separate
limited warranties for the supplemental restraint system and battery. The New Vehicle Limited Warranty also covers the battery for a period of eight years or 125,000 miles or unlimited miles, depending on the size of the vehicle’s battery,
although the battery’s charging capacity is not covered.

In addition to the New Vehicle Limited Warranty, we offer a
comprehensive maintenance program for Model S, which includes plans covering maintenance for up to eight years or up to 100,000 miles and an Extended Service Plan. The maintenance plans cover annual inspections, 24 hour roadside assistance and
the replacement of wear and tear parts, excluding tires and the battery, with either a fixed fee per visit for Tesla Ranger service or unlimited Tesla Ranger visits for a higher initial purchase price. The Extended Service Plan







covers the repair or replacement of Model S parts for an additional four years or up to an additional 50,000 miles after the New Vehicle Limited Warranty.

For our Roadster customers, we provided a three year or 36,000 mile New Vehicle Limited Warranty with every Tesla Roadster, which we
extended to four years or 50,000 miles for the purchasers of our 2008 Tesla Roadster. Customers have the opportunity to purchase an Extended Service Plan for the period after the end of the New Vehicle Limited Warranty to cover the repair or
replacement of Roadster parts for up to an additional three years or 36,000 miles, provided they are purchased within a specified period of time. We have previously provided our Tesla Roadster customers with a battery replacement option to replace
the battery in their vehicles at any time after the expiration of the New Vehicle Limited Warranty but before the tenth anniversary of the purchase date of their vehicles.

Our New Vehicle Limited Warranties and Extended Service plans are subject to certain limitations, exclusions or separate warranties, including certain wear items, such as tires, brake pads, paint and
general appearance, and battery performance, and are intended to cover parts and labor to repair defects in material or workmanship in the body, chassis, suspension, interior, electronic systems, battery, powertrain and brake system. In
addition, all plans must be purchased within a specified period of time after vehicle purchase.

Financial Services

We offer financial products through various financial institutions in the United States, Europe and Asia. In the United States and Canada,
we offer customer loans through specified commercial banking partners. In connection with certain of these loans, we offer a resale value guarantee to all customers who purchased a Model S and financed their vehicle. Under the program, Model S
customers have the option of selling their vehicle back to us during the period of 36 to 39 months following delivery for a pre-determined resale value. This structure allows the customer to enjoy the benefits of Model S ownership without concern
for its resale value.

Manufacturing

We conduct our powertrain and vehicle manufacturing and assembly operations at the Tesla Factory, our integrated manufacturing facility in Fremont, California, and at our facility in Tilburg, Netherlands.

We manufacture Model S and certain components that are critical to our intellectual property and quality standards for Model
S at the Tesla Factory. The Tesla Factory contains several manufacturing operations, including stamping, machining, casting, plastics, body assembly, paint operations, final vehicle assembly and end-of-line testing. In addition, we manufacture
lithium-ion battery packs, electric motors, gearboxes and components both for our vehicles and for our original equipment manufacturer customers at the Tesla Factory. Several major component systems of our vehicles are purchased from suppliers;
however we have a high level of vertical integration in our manufacturing processes at the Tesla Factory. We also intend to produce the Model X and our Gen III vehicle at the Tesla Factory.

We continue to ramp production at the Tesla Factory and believe that we will be able to continue to increase its production capacity
through additional capital spending as well as by changing operating patterns and adding additional shifts. In 2014, we intend to create new assembly and body shop lines which we have designed to manufacture both Model S and Model X.

For our vehicles delivered into the European Union, we conduct significant vehicle assembly and testing at our facilities in Tilburg,
Netherlands. This facility also serves as a pan European parts warehouse and regional customer service center.

We have
recently indicated our intention to build the Tesla Gigafactory, a facility where we intend to work together with our suppliers to integrate battery precursor material, cell, module and battery pack production in







one location. While we have not identified a final site for this facility, we currently expect that it will be located in one of the following states: Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico or Texas. We
currently expect the facility to be built on a lot between 500 and 1,000 acres in size, with up to approximately 10 million square feet of production space with one or two levels. At full implementation, the Tesla Gigafactory is expected to have
6,500 dedicated Tesla and production partner employees. We currently plan to commence supplying battery packs manufactured at the Tesla Gigafactory for our vehicles, including the Gen III vehicle, and stationary storage applications, in
approximately three years. The Tesla Gigafactory is currently expected to attain full production capacity in 2020, which is anticipated to be sufficient for the production of approximately 500,000 vehicles annually and stationary storage
applications.

We believe that the Tesla Gigafactory will allow us to achieve a major reduction in the cost of our battery
packs of greater than 30% on a per kWh basis by the end of the first year of volume production of Gen III. The total capital expenditures associated with the Tesla Gigafactory through 2020 are expected to be $4-5 billion, of which approximately $2
billion is expected to come from Tesla.

Supply Chain

Model S uses over 2,000 purchased parts which we source globally from over 300 suppliers, the majority of whom are currently our single
source suppliers for these components. We have developed close relationships with several key suppliers particularly in the procurement of cells and certain other key system parts. While we obtain components from multiple sources whenever possible,
similar to other automobile manufacturers, many of the components used in our vehicles are purchased by us from a single source.

To date, we have not qualified alternative sources for most of the single sourced components used in our vehicles and we generally do not maintain long-term agreements with our suppliers. While we believe
that we may be able to establish alternate supply relationships and can obtain or engineer replacement components for our single source components, we may be unable to do so in the short term or at all at prices or costs that are favorable to us.
For example, while several sources of the battery cell we have selected for our battery packs are available, we have fully qualified only two cells from one supplier for these cells. Any disruption in the supply of either battery cells could
temporarily disrupt production of the vehicles until such time as a different cell is fully qualified and there can be no assurance that we would be able to successfully retain alternative sources of supply on a timely basis. Moreover, battery cell
manufacturers may not supply us at reasonable prices or on reasonable terms or may choose to refuse to supply electric vehicle manufacturers to the extent they determine that the vehicles are not sufficiently safe.

We use various raw materials in our business including aluminum, steel, nickel and copper. The prices for these raw materials fluctuate
depending on market conditions and global demand for these materials. We believe that we have adequate supplies or sources of availability of the raw materials necessary to meet our manufacturing and supply requirements. There are always risks and
uncertainties, however, with respect to the supply of raw materials that could impact their availability in sufficient quantities or reasonable prices to meet our needs.

Quality Control

Our quality control efforts are divided between
product quality and supplier quality, both of which are focused on designing and producing products and processes with high levels of reliability. Our product quality engineers work with our engineering team and our suppliers to help ensure that the
product designs meet functional specifications and durability requirements. Our supplier quality engineers work with our suppliers to ensure that their processes and systems are capable of delivering the parts we need at the required quality level,
on time, and on budget.







Customers and Selected Relationships

We currently sell our cars primarily to individual customers. We have strategic or commercial relationships with Daimler, Toyota, and
Panasonic.

Daimler AG

Beginning in 2008, we commenced efforts on a powertrain development arrangement with Daimler. In May 2009, we entered into a development agreement with Daimler under which we have performed specified
research and development services for the development of a battery pack and charger for Daimler’s Smart fortwo electric drive. All development work related to the development agreement had been completed as of December 31, 2009. Through
December 2011, we had sold over 2,100 battery packs and chargers for the Smart fortwo electric drive program. In the first quarter of 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot
fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. A formal agreement for this arrangement was entered into with Daimler in May 2010. In October 2010, we completed the development of the A-Class battery pack and charger
and began shipping production parts in February 2011. Through December 2011, we sold over 500 battery packs and chargers for the A-Class EV program. In the first quarter of 2010, we completed the development and sale of modular battery packs for
electric delivery vans for Freightliner, an affiliate of Daimler. Freightliner plans to use these electric vans in a limited number of customer trials.

In the first half of 2012, we received two purchase orders from Daimler related to the development of a full electric powertrain for the B-Class Mercedes-Benz vehicle. During the fourth quarter of 2012,
we entered into a final development agreement for the B-Class, which includes certain development milestones and related payments. We entered into an agreement for production parts for this B-Class program in July 2013. We currently expect to
substantially complete our development services under this program in early 2014 and to commence production of electric powertrains and battery packs to Daimler shortly thereafter.

In addition to these agreements, Blackstar lnvestco LLC (Blackstar), an affiliate of Daimler, beneficially owned 4,867,929 shares of our
common stock as of December 31, 2013.

Toyota Motor Corporation

In May 2010, we and Toyota announced our intention to cooperate on the development of electric vehicles, and for us to receive
Toyota’s support with sourcing parts and production and engineering expertise for Model S. In July 2010, we entered into an early phase agreement to develop an electric powertrain for the Toyota RAV4. With an aim by Toyota to market the
electric vehicle in the United States in 2012, prototypes would be made by combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. We began developing and delivering prototypes to Toyota for evaluation in September 2010.

In October 2010, we entered into a contract services agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system,
including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. We completed all of the development services for the RAV4 EV in the first quarter of
2012.

Additionally, in July 2011, we entered into an agreement to supply Toyota with electric powertrain system for the RAV4
EV. We began delivery of these systems to Toyota for installation into the Toyota RAV4 EV in the first half of 2012. Our production activities under this program are expected to continue through 2014. We expect to complete shipping electric
powertrains for the current RAV4 model by the end of this year.

In addition to these agreements, in July 2010, we sold
2,941,176 shares of our common stock to Toyota at our IPO price of $17.00 per share.







Panasonic

Panasonic is a supplier of battery cells for our battery packs. In January 2010, we announced that we were collaborating with Panasonic on
the development of next-generation electric vehicle cells based on the 18650 form factor and nickel-based lithium ion chemistry. In October 2011, we finalized a supply agreement for these battery cells. The agreement supplies us with battery cells
to build more than 80,000 vehicles over the next four years. In October 2013, we entered into an amendment to the supply agreement to, among other things, provide for the long-term preferential prices and a minimum of 1.8 billion lithium-ion battery
cells that we intend to purchase from Panasonic from 2014 through 2017.

In November 2010, we sold 1,418,573 shares of our
common stock to an entity affiliated with Panasonic Corporation at a price of $21.15 per share.

Governmental Programs, Incentives and
Regulations

Full Repayment of United States Department of Energy Loans

In May 2013, we paid $451.8 million to settle all outstanding loan amounts due under a loan facility we had entered into with the Federal
Financing Bank (FFB) and the United States Department of Energy (DOE), under the DOE’s Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program, as set forth in Section 136 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (ATVM Program).
We refer to the loan facility with the DOE as the DOE Loan Facility.

Under the DOE Loan Facility, the FFB had made available
to us two multi-draw term loan facilities in an aggregate principal amount of $465.0 million beginning on January 20, 2010. As of August 31, 2012, we had fully drawn down the aforementioned facilities. On May 22, 2013, we paid $451.8
million to fully retire our obligations under the DOE Loan Facility.

In connection with the closing of the DOE Loan Facility,
we had also issued a warrant to the DOE to purchase up to 9,255,035 shares of our Series E convertible preferred stock at an exercise price of $2.51 per share. Upon the completion of our initial public offering on July 2, 2010, this preferred
stock warrant became a warrant to purchase up to 3,090,111 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $7.54 per share. As a result of our repayment of all outstanding principal and interest under the DOE Loan Facility and the termination of the
DOE Loan Facility in May 2013, the DOE warrant expired. Additionally, we amortized all remaining unamortized debt issuance costs related to the DOE Loan Facility.

California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing Authority Tax Incentives







$320 million of manufacturing equipment. Also in December 2013, we finalized an additional agreement with CAEATFA that will result in an exclusion from California state sales and use taxes for up
to $415 million of manufacturing equipment. To the extent all of this equipment is purchased and would otherwise be subject to California state sales or use tax, we believe this incentive would result in tax savings by us of up to approximately $35
million over the period starting in December 2013 and ending in December 2016. The equipment purchases may be used only for three purposes: (i) to expand Model S manufacturing capacity in California, (ii) to expand electric vehicle
powertrain production in California, and (iii) Model S future electric vehicle development.

Regulatory Credits

In connection with the production, delivery and placement into service of our zero emission vehicles in global
markets, we have earned and will continue to earn various tradable regulatory credits that can be sold to other manufacturers.

Additionally, under the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) national greenhouse gas (GHG) emission standards and similar standards adopted by the Canadian government, vehicle manufacturers are
required to meet fleet-wide average carbon dioxide emissions standards for cars and trucks. Those manufacturers whose fleet wide average fails to meet such standards have a deficit in their emission profile. Those manufacturers whose fleet
wide average performs better than such standards may earn credits. Manufacturers may sell excess credits to other manufacturers who can apply such credits to comply with these regulatory requirements. As a manufacturer solely of zero emission
vehicles, we earn the full amount of GHG credits established by the standards on each vehicle sold. We have entered into agreements with another automobile manufacturer to sell the credits that we earn.

Under the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s (NHTSA) Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards, vehicle
manufacturers are required to meet fleet-wide average fuel economy standards for cars and trucks. Those manufacturers whose fleet-wide average fails to meet such standards have a deficit in their fuel economy profile. Those
manufacturers whose fleet-wide average performs better than such standards may earn credits. Manufacturers may sell excess credits to other manufacturers who can apply such credits to comply with these regulatory requirements. We have
entered into agreements to sell the credits that we earn.

We have entered into contracts for the sale of regulatory credits
with several automotive manufacturers. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, we earned revenue from the sale of regulatory credits of $194.4 million, $40.5 million, and $2.7 million, respectively. We earned revenue from the
sale of ZEV credits specifically over the same time periods of $129.8 million, $32.4 million, and $2.7 million.







Regulation—Vehicle Safety and Testing

Our vehicles are subject to, and the Tesla Roadster complies with, or is exempt from, numerous regulatory requirements established by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), including all applicable United States federal motor vehicle safety standards (FMVSS). The Model S fully complies with all FMVSSs without the need for any exemptions. As a manufacturer, we must
self-certify that a vehicle meets or otherwise obtain an exemption from all applicable FMVSSs, as well as the NHTSA bumper standard, before the vehicle can be imported into or sold in the United States. There are numerous FMVSSs that apply to our
vehicles. Examples of these requirements include:



•Crash-worthiness requirements—including applicable and appropriate level of vehicle structure and occupant protection in frontal, side and
interior impacts including through use of equipment such as seat belts and airbags which must satisfy applicable requirements;



•Crash avoidance requirements—including appropriate steering, braking and equipment requirements, such as, headlamps, tail lamps, and other
required lamps, all of which must conform to various photometric and performance requirements;



•Electric vehicle requirements—limitations on electrolyte spillage, battery retention, and avoidance of electric shock following specified
crash tests;



•Windshield defrosting and defogging—defined zones of the windshield must be cleared within a specified timeframe; and



•Rearview mirror requirements—rearward areas that must be visible to the driver via the mirrors.

Due to the limited number of Roadsters originally produced, we applied for, and were granted, exemptions from certain advanced air bag
and electronic stability control requirements, which applied to Tesla Roadsters manufactured through November 7, 2011. For Model S, we have certified the vehicle as compliant with all U.S. safety standards without exemptions. Under U.S. law, we
are required to certify compliance with, or obtain exemption from all applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards and we have done so with respect to each vehicle we have offered for sale in the United States. Based on testing, engineering
analysis, and other information, we have certified that the Tesla Roadster complies with, or is exempt from all applicable NHTSA standards in effect at the time of manufacture by affixing a certification label to each Tesla Roadster sold. Based on
testing, engineering analysis and other information we have certified the Model S as complying with all applicable NHTSA standards in effect at the time of manufacture by affixing a certification label to each Model S sold.

We are also required to comply with other requirements of federal laws administered by NHTSA, including the Corporate Average Fuel
Economy standards, Theft Prevention Act requirements, consumer information labeling requirements, early warning reporting requirements regarding warranty claims, field reports, death and injury reports and foreign recalls, and owner’s manual
requirements.

Our vehicles sold in Europe are subject to European Union safety testing regulations. Many of those
regulations, referred to as European Union Whole Vehicle Type Approval (WVTA), are different from the federal motor vehicle safety standards applicable in the United States and may require redesign and/or retesting. For Model S, we successfully
completed full EU WVTA homologation and received approval last year by the RDW, the Dutch type approval authority. Due to reciprocity agreements in place throughout the European Union, RDW’s type approval is valid in the entire EU. We have also
sought and received type approval for non-EU European countries, including Switzerland, Iceland, and Norway. We also plan to introduce Model S vehicles in other markets such as China, Japan, and Australia. We successfully demonstrated and received
type approval for delivery of 85kWh equipped Model S vehicles to China. Plans are currently underway to obtain type approval for the 60kWh equipped Model S vehicle in China and both battery pack variants for markets in Japan and Australia, including
a forthcoming right-hand drive version.







The Automobile Information and Disclosure Act requires manufacturers of motor vehicles to
disclose certain information regarding the manufacturer’s suggested retail price, optional equipment and pricing. In addition, the Act allows inclusion of city and highway fuel economy ratings, as determined by EPA, as well as crash test
ratings as determined by NHTSA if such tests are conducted.

Regulation—EPA Emissions & Certificate of
Conformity

The Clean Air Act requires that we obtain a Certificate of Conformity issued by the EPA and a California
Executive Order issued by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) with respect to emissions for our vehicles, including Model S. The Certificate of Conformity is required for vehicles sold in states covered by the Clean Air Act’s standards
and both the Certificate of Conformity and the Executive Order is required for vehicles sold in states that have sought and received a waiver from the EPA to utilize California standards. The California standards for emissions control for certain
regulated pollutants for new vehicles and engines sold in California are set by CARB. States that have adopted the California standards as approved by EPA also recognize the Executive Order for sales of vehicles.

Regulation—Battery Safety and Testing

Our battery pack conforms with mandatory regulations that govern transport of “dangerous goods” that may present a risk in transportation, which includes lithium-ion batteries. The governing
regulations, which are issued by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) are based on the UN Recommendations on the Safe Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations, and related UN Manual Tests and Criteria. The
regulations vary by mode of transportation when these items are shipped such as by ocean vessel, rail, truck, or by air.

We
have completed the applicable transportation tests for our prototype and production battery packs demonstrating our compliance with the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, including:



•Altitude simulation—simulating air transport;



•Thermal cycling—assessing cell and battery seal integrity;



•Vibration—simulating vibration during transport;



•Shock—simulating possible impacts during transport; and



•External short circuit—simulating an external short circuit.

We also subject our battery packs to the appropriate tests specified in the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) J2464 and J2929 which
include further tests such as immersion, humidity, and exposure to fire.

We use lithium metal oxide cells in our battery
packs. The cells do not contain any lead, mercury, cadmium, or other hazardous materials, heavy metals, or any toxic materials. Our battery packs include certain packaging materials which contain trace amounts of various hazardous chemicals whose
use, storage and disposal is regulated under federal law. We currently have an agreement with a third party battery recycling company to recycle our battery packs. If a customer wishes to dispose of a battery pack from one of our vehicles, we
anticipate accepting the depleted battery from the customer without any additional charge.

Automobile Manufacturer and
Dealer Regulation

State law regulates the manufacture, distribution and sale of automobiles, and generally requires
motor vehicle manufacturers and dealers to be licensed. To the extent possible, we plan to secure dealer licenses (or the equivalent of a dealer license) and engage in activities as a motor vehicle dealer in so far as we are permitted to do so as we
open additional Tesla stores and service centers. Some states do not permit automobile manufacturers to be licensed as dealers or to act in the capacity of a dealer. To sell vehicles to residents of states







where we are not licensed as a dealer, to the extent permitted by local law, both the actual sale would generally have to occur out of state. In this scenario, it is possible that activities
related to marketing, advertising, taking orders, taking reservations and reservation payments, and delivering vehicles could be viewed by a state as conducting unlicensed activities in the state or otherwise violating the state’s motor vehicle
industry laws. Regulators in these states may require us to hold and meet the requirements of appropriate dealer or other licenses and, in states in which manufacturers are prohibited from acting as dealers, may otherwise prohibit or impact our
planned activities.

In jurisdictions where we do not have a Tesla store, a customer may try to purchase our vehicles over the
internet. However, some states have laws providing that a manufacturer cannot deliver a vehicle to a resident of such state except through a dealer licensed to do business in that state which may be interpreted to require us to open a store in such
state in order to sell vehicles to its residents. In some states where we have opened a viewing “gallery” that is not a full retail location, it is possible that a state regulator could take the position that activities at our gallery
constitute an unlicensed motor vehicle dealership and thereby violates applicable manufacturer-dealer laws. Although we would prefer that a state regulator address any concerns by discussing such concerns with us and requesting voluntary compliance,
a state could also take action against us, including levying fines or requiring that we refrain from certain activities. In addition, some states have requirements that service facilities be available with respect to vehicles sold in the state,
which may be interpreted to also require that service facilities be available with respect to vehicles sold over the internet to residents of the state thereby limiting our ability to sell vehicles in states where we do not maintain service
facilities.

The foregoing examples of state laws governing the sale of motor vehicles are just some of the regulations we
face as we sell our vehicles. In many states, the application of state motor vehicle laws to our specific sales model is largely without precedent, particularly with respect to sales over the internet, and would be determined by a fact specific
analysis of numerous factors, including whether we have a physical presence or employees in the applicable state, whether we advertise or conduct other activities in the applicable state, how the sale transaction is structured, the volume of sales
into the state, and whether the state in question prohibits manufacturers from acting as dealers. As a result of the fact specific and untested nature of these issues, and the fact that applying these laws intended for the traditional automobile
distribution model to our sales model allows for some interpretation and discretion by the regulators, state legal prohibitions may prevent us from selling to consumers in such state.

Moreover, as we expand our footprint in the United States, Dealer Associations have been bringing litigation challenging the legality of
our operations, as well as trying to use administrative and legislative processes to shut down our ability to expand and even threatening existing operations. Although we have prevailed in every lawsuit brought by these Dealer Associations in
Massachusetts, New York and Ohio, we expect that additional challenges will be brought. In addition, Dealer Associations are actively lobbying Governors and legislators to interpret laws or enact new laws not favorable to Tesla’s ownership and
operation of its own retail and service locations.

Furthermore, while we have performed an analysis of the principal laws in
the European Union relating to our distribution model and believe we comply with such laws, we have not performed a complete analysis in all foreign jurisdictions in which we may sell vehicles. Accordingly, there may be laws in jurisdictions we have
not yet entered or laws we are unaware of in jurisdictions we have entered that may restrict our vehicle reservation practices or other business practices. Even for those jurisdictions we have analyzed, the laws in this area can be complex,
difficult to interpret and may change over time.

In addition to licensing laws, specific laws and regulations in each of the
states (and their interpretation by regulators) may limit or determine how we sell, market, advertise, and otherwise solicit sales, take orders, take reservations and reservation payments, deliver, and service vehicles for consumers and engage in
other activities in that state. While we have performed an analysis of laws in certain jurisdictions in which we have Tesla stores, we have not performed a complete analysis in all jurisdictions in which we may sell vehicles. Accordingly, there







may be laws in jurisdictions we have not yet entered that may restrict our vehicle reservation practices or other business practices.

Competition

Competition in the automotive industry is intense and
evolving. We believe the impact of new regulatory requirements for occupant safety and vehicle emissions, technological advances in powertrain and consumer electronics components, and shifting customer needs and expectations are causing the industry
to evolve in the direction of electric-based vehicles. We believe the primary competitive factors in our markets include but are not limited to:



•technological innovation;



•product quality and safety;



•service options;



•product performance;



•design and styling;



•brand perception;



•product price; and



•manufacturing efficiency.

We believe that our vehicles compete in the market both based on their traditional segment classification as well as based on their propulsion technology. Within the electric-based vehicle segment, there
are three primary means of powertrain electrification which will differentiate various competitors in this market:



•Electric Vehiclesare vehicles powered completely by a single on-board energy storage system (battery pack or fuel cell) which is refueled
directly from an electricity source. Both the Tesla Roadster and Model S are examples of electric vehicles.



•Plug-in Hybrid Vehiclesare vehicles powered by both a battery pack with an electric motor and an internal combustion engine which can be
refueled both with traditional petroleum fuels for the engine and electricity for the battery pack. The internal combustion engine can either work in parallel with the electric motor to power the wheels, such as in a parallel plug-in hybrid vehicle,
or be used only to recharge the battery, such as in a series plug-in hybrid vehicle like the Chevrolet Volt.



•Hybrid ElectricVehicles are vehicles powered by both a battery pack with an electric motor and an internal combustion engine but which can only
be refueled with traditional petroleum fuels as the battery pack is charged via regenerative braking, such as used in a hybrid electric vehicle like the Toyota Prius.

The worldwide automotive market, particularly for alternative fuel vehicles, is highly competitive today and we expect it will become
even more so in the future. Prior to the introduction of the Nissan Leaf in December 2010, no mass produced performance highway-capable electric vehicles were being sold in the United States. In Japan, Mitsubishi has been selling its electric iMiEV
since April 2010. We expect additional competitors to enter the alternate fuel vehicle market within the next several years, and as they do so, we expect that we will experience significant competition. In addition, we currently face strong
competition from existing automobile manufacturers in the extremely competitive premium sedan market, including Audi, BMW, Lexus and Mercedes.

Many established and new automobile manufacturers have entered or have announced plans to enter the alternative fuel vehicle market. In addition to the Nissan Leaf, Ford has introduced the fully electric
Ford Focus, Renault has introduced the fully electric Renault Fluence, and Fiat has introduced the Fiat 500e, among others. Moreover BMW, Daimler, Lexus, Audi, Fiat, Renault, Volkswagen and Volvo are also developing electric







vehicles. For example, BMW plans to introduce its i3 city car and i8 sports car in the second quarter of 2014 and Volkswagen plans to introduce its fully electric e-Golf in 2014. Several new
start-ups have also announced plans to enter the market for performance electric vehicles, although none of these have yet come to market. Finally, electric vehicles have already been brought to market in China and other foreign countries and we
expect a number of those manufacturers to enter the United States market as well.

In addition, several manufacturers,
including General Motors, Toyota, Ford, and Honda, are each selling hybrid vehicles, and certain of these manufacturers have announced plug-in versions of their hybrid vehicles. For example, in December 2010, General Motors introduced the Chevrolet
Volt, which is a plug-in hybrid vehicle that operates purely on electric power for a limited number of miles, at which time an internal combustion engine engages to recharge the battery.

Most of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other
resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the design, development, manufacturing, distribution, promotion, sale and support of their products. Virtually all of our competitors have more extensive customer bases and broader
customer and industry relationships than we do. In addition, almost all of these companies have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. Our competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to new technologies
and may be able to design, develop, market and sell their products more effectively. We believe our exclusive focus on electric vehicles and electric vehicle components, as well as our history of vehicle development and production, are the basis on
which we can compete in the global automotive market in spite of the challenges posed by our competition; however, we have a limited history of operations.

Intellectual Property

Our success depends, at least in part, on our
ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of patents, patent applications, trade secrets, including know-how, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements, copyright laws,
trademarks, intellectual property licenses and other contractual rights to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our technology. As of December 31, 2013, we had 203 issued patents and more than 280 pending patent applications with the
United States Patent and Trademark Office and internationally in a broad range of areas. Our issued patents start expiring in 2026. We intend to continue to file additional patent applications with respect to our technology. We do not know whether
any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Even if granted, there can be no assurance that these pending patent applications will provide us
with protection.

Segment Information

We have determined that we operate as one reporting segment, which is the design, development, manufacturing and sales of electric vehicles and electric powertrain components. For information regarding
financial data by geographic areas, see Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2013, we had 5,859 full-time employees. None of our employees are currently represented by labor unions or are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with respect to their employment. To date, we have not experienced any work
stoppages, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good.

Available Information

We file or furnish periodic reports and amendments thereto, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
and Current Reports on Form 8-K; proxy statements and other information with the







Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports, amendments, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Our reports, amendments thereto, proxy statements and other information are also made available, free of charge, on our investor relations website atir.teslamotors.comas soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such information with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



