ITEM 1.BUSINESS

We design,
develop, manufacture and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles and advanced electric vehicle powertrain components. We own our sales and service network and have operationally structured our business in a manner that we believe will enable
us to rapidly develop and launch advanced electric vehicles and technologies. We believe our vehicles, electric vehicle engineering expertise, and operational structure differentiates us from incumbent automobile manufacturers.

We are the first company to commercially produce a federally-compliant electric vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, which achieves a
market-leading range on a single charge combined with attractive design, driving performance and zero tailpipe emissions. As of December 31, 2012, we had delivered approximately 2,450 Tesla Roadsters to customers in over 30 countries. While we
have concluded the production run of the Tesla Roadster, its proprietary electric vehicle powertrain system is the foundation of our business. We modified this system for our Model S sedan and plan to continue to enhance it for use in our future
electric vehicles, including our Model X crossover.

We began shipments of our second vehicle, the Model S sedan, in June
2012. Model S is a four door, five-passenger premium sedan that offers exceptional performance, functionality and attractive styling. As of December 31, 2012, we have produced over 3,100 Model S vehicles and delivered approximately 2,650. We
achieved our steady-state production run rate of 20,000 vehicles per year in December 2012. Model S has won several awards, including the prestigiousMotor TrendCar of the Year for 2013. As of December 31, 2012, we have received over
15,000 customer reservations (after deliveries and cancellations made during the year) for Model S with a minimum refundable payment of $5,000.

We are adapting the platform architecture of the Model S to develop our Model X crossover. We revealed a prototype of Model X in February 2012 and plan to begin production in late 2014. This unique
vehicle has been designed to fill the niche between the roominess of a minivan and the style of an SUV, while having high performance features such as a dual motor all-wheel drive system.

In addition to developing our own vehicles, we provide services for the development of full electric powertrain systems and components,
and sell electric powertrain components to other automotive manufacturers. We have provided development services and powertrain components to Daimler AG (Daimler) for its Smart fortwo, A-Class, and B-Class electric vehicles. We also have developed a
full electric powertrain system for Toyota Motor Corporation (Toyota) for use in its RAV4 EV and began shipping production components to Toyota in 2012.

We sell and service our electric vehicles through our company-owned sales and service network in North America, Europe and Asia. Our intent is to offer a compelling customer experience while
gathering rapid customer feedback and achieving operating efficiencies, better control over the costs of inventory, warranty service, pricing, and the development of the Tesla brand. Our Tesla stores do not carry large vehicle inventories and, as a
result, do not require corresponding large floor spaces. We believe the benefits we receive from distribution ownership will enable us to improve the speed of product development and improve the capital efficiency of our business. We believe that
this approach provides us with a competitive advantage as compared to incumbent automobile manufacturers.

Our fully electric
vehicles combine zero tailpipe emissions, market leading range on a single charge, impressive acceleration, and pricing competitive with other vehicles in their classes. For example, our Model S sedan accelerates from zero to 60 miles per hour in as
little as 4.4 seconds and has a range on a single charge of up to 265 miles. We offer Model S with a variety of battery pack options – 40 kWh, 60 kWh and 85 kWh. The







Model S with the 40 kWh option has an effective base price of $52,400 in the United States, assuming and after giving effect to the continuation of a United States federal tax credit of $7,500
for the purchase of alternative fuel vehicles. Even without the tax credit, we believe our list prices are competitive from a pricing perspective with other premium vehicles. We believe that Model S demonstrates our ability to produce increasingly
affordable electric vehicles that offer long-range capabilities and uncompromised performance, energy efficiency, convenience and design.

The commercial production of a highway capable, fully electric vehicle that meets consumers’ range and performance expectations requires substantial design, engineering, and integration work on
almost every system of our vehicles. Our roots in Silicon Valley have enabled us to recruit engineers with strong skills in electrical engineering, power electronics and software engineering. We have complemented this talent base with automotive
engineers with substantial expertise in vehicle engineering and manufacturing. Our ability to combine expertise in electric powertrain and vehicle engineering provides a broad capability in electric vehicle design and systems integration. We believe
these capabilities, coupled with our focus solely on electric vehicle technology as well as our strong in-house engineering and manufacturing capacity, will enable us to sustain the electric vehicle industry leadership we created through the
production of the Tesla Roadster and Model S.

Our battery pack and electric powertrain system has enabled us to deliver
market-leading range capability on our vehicles at what we believe is a compelling battery cost per kilowatt-hour. Our battery packs use commercially available lithium-ion battery cells and contain two to three times the energy of any other
commercially available electric vehicle battery pack, thereby significantly increasing the range capabilities of our vehicles. Designing an electric powertrain and a vehicle to exploit its energy efficiency has required extensive safety testing and
innovation in battery packs, motors, powertrain systems and vehicle engineering. Our proprietary technology includes cooling systems, safety systems, charge balancing systems, battery engineering for vibration and environmental durability,
customized motor design and the software and electronics management systems necessary to manage battery and vehicle performance under demanding real-life driving conditions. These technology innovations have resulted in an extensive intellectual
property portfolio—as of December 31, 2012, we had 117 issued patents and more than 258 pending patent applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and internationally in a broad range of areas.

We are designing our vehicles to enable the cost effective development of our future vehicles. For example, we have designed Model S with
a platform architecture, which compactly positions the battery pack, motor and other elements of our powertrain within the frame of the vehicle. We believe this architecture will form the basis of several future vehicles, including our planned Model
X crossover, and enable us to efficiently and cost effectively launch these new vehicle models in the future.

Our design and
vehicle engineering capabilities, combined with the technical advancements of our powertrain system, have enabled us to design and develop zero tailpipe emission vehicles that we believe overcome the design, styling, and performance issues that we
believe have historically limited broad consumer adoption of electric vehicles. As a result, we believe our customers enjoy several benefits, including:



•Long Range and Recharging Flexibility.Our vehicles offer ranges that are almost double the range of any other commercially available electric
vehicle. In addition, our vehicles incorporate our proprietary on-board charging system, permitting recharging from almost any available electrical outlet. Certain battery pack versions of Model S also offer fast charging capability from our
Supercharger network. We believe the long-range and charging flexibility of our vehicles will help reduce consumer anxiety over range, alleviate the need for expensive, large-scale charging infrastructure, and differentiate our vehicles as compared
to our competitors’ currently announced electric vehicle product offerings.



•Energy Efficiency and Cost of Ownership.We believe our vehicles offer consumers an attractive cost of ownership when compared to similar
internal combustion engine or hybrid electric vehicles. Using only a single electric powertrain enables us to create a lighter, more energy efficient vehicle that is







mechanically simpler than currently available hybrid or internal combustion engine vehicles. We also expect our electric vehicles will have lower relative maintenance costs than hybrid, plug-in
hybrid, or internal combustion engine vehicles due to fewer moving parts and the absence of certain components, including oil, oil filters, spark plugs and engine valves. Additionally, government incentives that are currently available can reduce
the cost of ownership even further.



•High-Performance Without Compromised Design or Functionality.We believe we have been able to successfully overcome the design and performance
tradeoff issues that encumbered most early electric vehicle designs. We believe our vehicles deliver unparalleled driving experiences with instantaneous and sustained acceleration through an extended range of speed. In addition, our Model S
seats five adults, provides best in class storage in the trunk and hood while offering design and performance comparable to, or better than, other premium sedans.

Our Vehicles and Products

We currently design, manufacture and sell fully
electric vehicles and electric powertrain components. We are currently selling primarily the Model S sedan.

Model S

Model S is a fully electric, four-door, five-adult passenger sedan that produces zero tailpipe emissions and accelerates from zero to 60 miles per hour in as low as 4.4 seconds in its performance version.
We began customer deliveries in June 2012. As of December 31, 2012, we had produced over 3,100 Model S vehicles and delivered approximately 2,650. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, we had received over 15,000 customer reservations
(after deliveries and cancellations made during the year) with a minimum refundable payment of $5,000.

We offer Model S with
a variety of battery pack options – 40 kWh, 60 kWh and 85 kWh – which offer a range on a single charge of up to 265 miles. To complement its range capabilities, we also offer the capability to fast charge Model S vehicles equipped with
either the 60 kWh or 85 kWh battery packs at our Supercharger facilities. The fast charge capability allows Model S owners to replenish 50% of the battery pack in as little as 30 minutes. In addition, we designed Model S to incorporate a modular
battery pack in the floor of the vehicle, enabling it to be rapidly swapped out at certain of our service centers and specialized commercial battery exchange facilities that we anticipate may be available in the future.

We believe Model S offers a compelling combination of functionality, convenience and styling without compromising performance and energy
efficiency. With the battery pack in the floor of the vehicle and the motor and gearbox in line with the rear axle, Model S provides best in class storage space of 31.6 cubic feet, including storage under both the tailgate and the hood. By way of
comparison, this storage space exceeds the approximately 14 cubic feet of storage available in the 2009 BMW 5 Series sedan and the approximately 21 cubic feet of storage available in the 2009 Lincoln Town Car. In addition, we have designed
Model S to include a third row with two rear-facing child seats, allowing us to offer seating for five adults and two children. Model S is also available with premium luxury features, including a 17 inch touch screen driver interface, advanced
wireless connectivity, such as 3G connectivity, and driver customization of the infotainment and climate control systems of the vehicle. We have designed Model S with the intent to achieve a five star safety rating. We believe the intended
combination of performance, styling, convenience and energy efficiency of Model S will help position it as a compelling alternative to other vehicles in the luxury and performance segments.

The 40 kWh, 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options of Model S will have an effective base price of $52,400, $62,400, and
$72,400, respectively, in the United States, assuming and after giving effect to the continuation of a United States federal tax credit of $7,500 for the purchase of alternative fuel vehicles. Even without the tax credit, we believe the base list
prices will be competitive with those of other premium vehicles. We also offer a performance version of Model S. Equipped with the 85 kWh battery pack and a high performance drive inverter, the Model S performance version accelerates from zero to 60
miles per hour in 4.4 seconds. The effective base price of the Model S performance version is $87,400.







We have designed Model S to provide a lower cost of ownership as compared to other vehicles
in its class. We consider the purchase price, cost of fuel and the cost of maintenance over a six year ownership period in this calculation. We assume comparable residual values, warranties, insurance costs and promotions and assume that currently
available consumer incentives are still available at the time of a Model S purchase. In addition to the competitive pricing of Model S relative to other premium vehicles, we estimate that customers of electric vehicles will enjoy lower fuel
costs. For example, assuming an average of 12,000 miles driven per year, an average electricity cost of 11.2 cents per kilowatt-hour and an average gasoline price of $3.32 per gallon over the full ownership of the vehicle which were the average
electricity cost and gasoline price in the United States, respectively, for January 2013, and based on our estimate of the energy efficiency of Model S, we estimate that our Model S could have approximately $1,800 per year less in fuel costs
than a comparable premium internal combustion engine sedan. Furthermore, we expect Model S will have lower maintenance costs than comparable premium internal combustion engine sedans due to fewer moving parts and the absence of certain components,
including oil, oil filters, spark plugs and engine valves.

The Tesla Roadster

Our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, is the first high-performance electric sports car. The two-seat, convertible Tesla Roadster has a
combination of range, style, performance and energy efficiency that we believe is unmatched in the market today. It can accelerate from zero to 60 miles per hour in as little as 3.7 seconds and has a maximum speed of approximately 120 miles per
hour. The Tesla Roadster also has a range of 245 miles on a single charge, as determined using the United States EPA’s, combined two-cycle city/highway test.

As of December 31, 2012, we had delivered almost all of our remaining inventory of Tesla Roadsters to customers in over 30 countries, almost all of which were sold to customers in North America and
Europe. The Tesla Roadster complies with, or is exempt from, all applicable vehicle safety standards in the United States, the European Union as well as in select other countries. To date, our customers have driven the Tesla Roadster for an
estimated aggregate of almost 30 million miles. We concluded the production run of the Tesla Roadster in January 2012. We are selling our remaining Tesla Roadsters primarily in Europe and Asia until our inventory is depleted.

Model X and Future Vehicle Roadmap

We have designed Model S with an adaptable platform architecture and common electric powertrain that we intend to leverage to create future electric vehicle models. In particular, by designing our
electric powertrain within the chassis to accommodate different vehicle body styles, we believe that we can save significant time in future vehicle development. In addition, we believe our strategy of using commercially available battery cells will
enable us to leverage improvements in cell chemistries and rapidly introduce planned vehicles with different range options. However, we may make changes to the design of Model S and Model X, including changes that may make it more difficult to use
the Model S platform for Model X and other future vehicles.

In February 2012, we revealed an early prototype of the Model X
crossover as the first vehicle we intend to develop by leveraging the Model S platform. This unique vehicle has been designed to fill the niche between the roominess of a minivan and the style of an SUV, while having high performance features such
as a dual motor all-wheel drive system. The Model X will seat seven adults. We currently plan to start production of Model X in late 2014. We anticipate that we will make Model X available with 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options, with
pricing of each version similar to those of a comparably equipped Model S. We currently intend to target an annual production rate of approximately 10,000 -15,000 cars per year from our Tesla Factory.

We have also publicly announced our intent to develop a third generation electric vehicle to be produced at the Tesla Factory. We intend
to offer this vehicle at a lower price point and expect to produce it at higher volumes than our Model S. We expect that this vehicle will be produced a few years after the introduction of the Model X crossover.







Powertrain Development and Sales

In addition to our own vehicles, we also design, develop, manufacture and sell advanced electric vehicle powertrain components to other
automotive manufacturers.

We have provided development services and full powertrain systems and components to Daimler for its
Smart fortwo, A-Class, and B-Class electric vehicles. From May 2009 through December 2012, we provided approximately 2,700 battery packs and chargers for the Smart fortwo and A-Class vehicles. We have completed these programs and are now providing
development services to Daimler for its B-Class electric vehicle. We also have developed a full electric powertrain system for Toyota for use in its RAV4 EV and began shipping production systems to Toyota in 2012. Our production activities under
this program are expected to continue through 2014.

We are continuing to perform our electric powertrain component and
systems activities principally out of our Palo Alto facility. This facility, which also serves as our corporate headquarters, houses our research and development services, including cell and component testing and prototyping, as well as
manufacturing of powertrain components for sales to third parties.

Technology

We believe the core competencies of our company are powertrain and vehicle engineering. Our core intellectual property is contained within
our electric powertrain. Our electric powertrain consists of the following: battery pack, power electronics, motor, gearbox and the control software which enables the components to operate as a system. We designed each of these major elements for
our Tesla Roadster and Model S and plan to use much of this technology in Model X, our future electric vehicles and powertrain components that we build for other manufacturers. Our powertrain and battery pack have a modular design, enabling future
generations of electric vehicles to incorporate a significant amount of this technology. Further, our powertrain is very compact and contains far fewer moving parts than the internal combustion powertrain. These features enable us to adapt it for a
variety of applications, including our future vehicles and any powertrain components we build for other manufacturers.

Battery Pack

We design our battery packs to safely store significant amounts of energy and to have long lives. For example, we
have designed our Tesla Roadster battery packs to store 53 kilowatt hours of useful energy and to have a life of over 100,000 miles or seven years. In addition, we have designed our battery packs to be modular so that we can leverage technology
developments across our different vehicles and products. Our proprietary technology includes cooling systems, safety systems, charge balancing systems, battery engineering for vibration and environmental durability, robotic manufacturing processes,
customized motor design and the software and electronics management systems necessary to manage battery and vehicle performance under demanding real-life driving conditions. We have significant experience and expertise in the safety and management
systems needed to work with lithium-ion cells in the demanding automotive environment. We believe these advancements have enabled us to produce a battery pack at a low cost per kilowatt-hour.

We believe one of our core competencies is the design of our complete battery pack system. We have designed our battery pack system to
permit flexibility with respect to battery cell chemistry, form factor and vendor that we adopt for battery cell supply. In so doing, we believe that we can leverage the substantial battery cell investments and advancements being made globally by
battery cell manufacturers to continue to improve the cost per kilowatt-hour of our battery pack. We maintain an internal battery cell testing lab and an extensive performance database of the many available lithium-ion cell vendors and chemistry
types. We intend to incorporate the battery cells that provide the best value and performance possible into our battery packs, and we expect this to continue over time as battery cells continue to improve in energy storage capacity, longevity, power
delivery and cost. We believe this flexibility will enable us to continue to evaluate new battery cells as they become commercially viable, and thereby optimize battery pack system performance and cost for our







current and future vehicles. We believe our ability to change battery cell chemistries and vendors while retaining our existing investments in software, electronics, testing and vehicle
packaging, will enable us to quickly deploy various battery cells into our products and leverage the latest advancements in battery cell technology.

The range of our electric vehicles on a single charge declines principally as a function of usage, time and charging patterns. A customer’s use of their Tesla vehicle as well as the frequency with
which they charge the battery of their Tesla vehicle can result in additional deterioration of the battery’s ability to hold a charge. For example, we currently expect that the Tesla Roadster battery pack will retain approximately 60-65% of its
ability to hold its initial charge after approximately 100,000 miles or seven years, which will result in a decrease to the vehicle’s initial range. In addition, based on internal testing, we estimate that our Tesla Roadster would have a 5-10%
reduction in range when operated in -20°C temperatures.

To date, we have tested hundreds of battery cells of different
chemistries, form factors and designs. Based on this evaluation, we are presently using lithium-ion battery cells based on the 18650 form factor in all of our battery packs. These battery cells are commercially available in large quantities. We
currently intend to use the same battery cell form factor in Model X. We entered into a supply agreement with Panasonic Corporation (Panasonic) for the use of Panasonic’s battery cells in Model S. We expect these battery cells to exhibit better
performance and longer lifetimes than the battery cells used in the Tesla Roadster.

Power Electronics

The power electronics in our electric powertrain govern the flow of electrical current throughout the car, primarily
the current that flows into and out of the battery pack. The power electronics has two primary functions, the control of torque generation in the motor while driving and the control of energy delivery back into the battery pack while charging.

The first function is accomplished through the drive inverter, which converts direct current (DC) from the battery pack into
alternating current (AC) to drive our three-phase induction motors. The drive inverter also converts the AC generated by regenerative braking back into DC for electrical storage in the battery pack. The drive inverter performs this function by using
a high-performance digital signal processor which runs some of the most complicated and detailed software in the vehicle. In so doing, the drive inverter is directly responsible for the performance, high efficiency and overall driving experience of
the vehicle.

The second function, charging the battery pack, is accomplished by the charger, which converts alternating
current (usually from a wall outlet or other electricity source) into direct current which can be accepted by the battery. The charger enables us to use any available source of power to charge our vehicle. Our vehicles can recharge on any electrical
outlet from a common outlet of 15 amps and 120 volts all the way up to a high power outlet of 70 amps and 240 volts, which provides faster recharging.

Since the charger system is built into our vehicles, it is possible to charge our vehicles using a variety of power outlets. For example, charging the Tesla Roadster battery pack to full capacity will
take approximately 7 hours using a 240 volt, 40 amp outlet that is widely available in many homes in the United States for electric appliances. A high power connection capable of 240 volts and 70 amps reduces this charging time to about
4.5 hours. Such a connection can be installed in many homes with the assistance of a qualified electrician. For additional flexibility, the Tesla Roadster battery pack can also be charged with a 120 volt, 15 amp connection. Using this lower
power output, the Tesla Roadster battery pack can be charged to full capacity in about 42 hours. This flexibility in charging provides customers with additional mobility, while also allowing them to conveniently charge the vehicle overnight at home.

We offer a high-voltage, direct current fast charge option for Model S with the 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options that
enable the vehicle to charge from Tesla’s Supercharger network.







Motor

Our powertrains currently use custom designed 3-phase induction motors. We believe we have made several important innovations in our motor design that minimize mass while still providing high power and
efficiency. Our motors incorporate a proprietary fabricated copper rotor design. Our motors also include optimized winding patterns that allow for easy manufacture and fit in as much copper as possible to reduce resistance and energy losses.

Gearbox

We have designed custom, single speed gearboxes that are manufactured in-house for the Tesla Roadster and Model S. These gearboxes combine low mass with high efficiency and can match both the speed and
torque capabilities of our AC induction motors. In comparison to a gasoline-powered vehicle, the elimination of gear changes contributes to the rapid acceleration characteristics of our vehicles.

Control Software

The performance and safety systems of our vehicles and their battery packs require sophisticated control software. There are numerous processors in our vehicles to control these functions, and we write
custom firmware for many of these processors. The flow of electricity between the battery pack and the motor must be tightly controlled in order to deliver the performance and behavior expected in the vehicle. For example, software algorithms enable
the vehicle to mimic the “creep” feeling which drivers expect from an internal combustion engine vehicle without having to apply pressure on the accelerator. Similar algorithms control traction, vehicle stability and the sustained
acceleration and regenerative braking of the vehicle. Drivers use the information systems in our vehicles to optimize performance and charging modes and times. Software also is used extensively to monitor the charge state of each of the cells of the
battery pack and to manage all of its safety systems. In addition to the vehicle control software, we also develop software for the infotainment system of Model S.

Vehicle Design and Engineering

In addition to the design, development and
production of the powertrain, we have created significant in-house capabilities in the design and engineering of electric vehicles and electric vehicle components and systems. We design and engineer bodies, chassis, interiors, heating and cooling
and low voltage electrical systems in house and to a lesser extent in conjunction with our suppliers. Our team has core competencies in computer aided design and crash test simulations which we expect to reduce the product development time of new
models.

Several traditional automotive subsystems required substantial redesign and custom optimization to integrate with the
powertrain of an electric vehicle. For example, we redesigned the heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) system to integrate with the battery thermal management system and to operate without the energy generated from an internal combustion
engine. In addition, low voltage electric systems which power features such as the radio, power windows, and heated seats also needed to be designed specifically for use in an electric vehicle. We have developed expertise in integrating these
components with the high-voltage power source in the vehicle and in designing components that significantly reduce their load on the vehicle battery pack, thereby maximizing the available range of the vehicle.

Additionally, our team has expertise in lightweight materials, a very important characteristic for electric vehicles given the impact of
mass on range. The Tesla Roadster is built with an internally-designed carbon fiber body which provides a balance of strength and mass. Model S is built with a lightweight aluminum body and chassis which incorporates a variety of materials and
production methods that help optimize the weight of the vehicle.







Sales and Marketing

Company-Owned Stores and Galleries

We market and sell cars directly
to consumers through an international network of company-owned stores and galleries. Our Tesla stores and galleries are highly visible, premium outlets in major metropolitan markets some of which combine retail sales and service. We intend to build
separate sales and service locations in several markets. In April 2011, we opened our store at Santana Row in San Jose, California. The opening of our Santana Row store launched what we believe to be a new retail experience designed to engage and
inform potential customers about electric vehicles in general and the advantages of the Tesla experience in particular. We have opened eighteen other locations modeled on this concept to complement our older sales and service locations. In total, we
now operate a network of 32 stores and galleries in North America, Europe and Asia. We plan to open additional stores and/or galleries during 2013.

We believe that by owning our own sales and service network we can offer a compelling customer experience while achieving operating efficiencies and capturing sales and service revenues incumbent
automobile manufacturers do not enjoy in the traditional franchised distribution and service model. Our customers deal directly with our own Tesla-employed sales and service staff, creating what we believe is a differentiated buying experience from
the buying experience consumers have with franchised automobile dealers and service centers. We believe we will also be able to better control costs of inventory, manage warranty service and pricing, maintain and strengthen the Tesla brand, and
obtain rapid customer feedback. Further, we believe that by owning our sales network we will avoid the conflict of interest in the traditional dealership structure inherent to most incumbent automobile manufacturers where the sale of warranty parts
and repairs by a dealer are a key source of revenue and profit for the dealer but often are an expense for the vehicle manufacturer.

Reservations

We typically carry very limited inventory of our
vehicles at our Tesla stores. While some customers may purchase their vehicles from this inventory, most of our customers choose to customize the appearance of their vehicle. We require an initial refundable reservation payment of at least $5,000
for our vehicles. The reservation payment becomes a nonrefundable deposit once the customer has selected the vehicle specifications and enters into a purchase agreement. We require full payment of the purchase price of the vehicle only upon delivery
of the vehicle to the customer. Reservation payments and deposits are used by us to fund, in part, our working capital requirements and help us to align production with demand. As of December 31, 2012, we had received over 15,000 customer
reservations (after deliveries and cancellations made during the year) for Model S.

Marketing

Our principal marketing goals are to:



•generate demand for our vehicles and drive leads to our sales teams;



•build long-term brand awareness and manage corporate reputation;



•manage our existing customer base to create loyalty and customer referrals; and



•enable customer input into the product development process.

As the first company to commercially produce a federally-compliant, fully electric vehicle that achieves market-leading range on a single charge, we have been able to generate significant media coverage
of our company and our vehicles, and we believe we will continue to do so. To date, media coverage and word of mouth have been the primary drivers of our sales leads and have helped us achieve sales without traditional advertising and at relatively
low marketing costs. We also use traditional means of advertising including product placement in a variety of media outlets and pay-per-click advertisements on websites and applications relevant to our target demographics.







Our marketing efforts include events where our vehicles are displayed and demonstrated.
These events range from widely attended public events, such as the Detroit, Los Angeles, and Frankfurt auto shows, to smaller events oriented towards sales, such as private drive events.

Company-Owned Charging Network, Service and Warranty

Tesla
Supercharger Network

We are building a network of 90 kWh fast charging equipment, each called a Tesla Supercharger,
throughout North America for fast charging of Model S. The Tesla Supercharger is an industrial grade, high speed charger designed to replenish 50% of the battery pack in as little as 30 minutes. We have implemented Superchargers along key routes in
California and between Washington, D.C., New York, and Boston. Access to the Supercharger network is currently available free of charge to owners of Model S vehicles with the 85 kWh battery pack options and when purchased as an upfront option for 60
kWh. We are planning to methodically expand the Supercharger network over the next few years.

Service

We provide service for our electric vehicles at our company-owned service centers or, in certain areas for an
additional charge, through Tesla Ranger mobile technicians who provide services that do not require a vehicle lift. We own and operate a total of 29 service locations as of December 31, 2012. We are continuing our plan to build a number of
additional service centers in several markets worldwide.

Tesla Roadster owners can upload data from their vehicle and send it
to us on a memory card and Model S owners can do the same via an on-board GSM system, allowing us to diagnose and remedy many problems before ever looking at the vehicle. When maintenance or service is required, a customer can schedule service by
contacting one of our Tesla service centers. Our Tesla Rangers can also perform an array of services that do not require a vehicle lift from the convenience of a customer’s home or other remote location.

We believe that our company-owned service centers enable our technicians to work closely with our engineers and research and development
teams in Silicon Valley to identify problems, find solutions, and incorporate improvements faster than incumbent automobile manufacturers.

Maintenance Programs

We have announced a prepaid maintenance
program for Model S, which includes plans covering maintenance for four years or up to 50,000 miles and an additional four years or up to an additional 50,000 miles, provided they are purchased within a specified period of time. These plans cover
annual inspections and the replacement of wear and tear parts, excluding tires and the battery, with either a fixed fee per visit for Tesla Ranger service or unlimited Tesla Ranger visits for a higher initial purchase price. For customers that are
not covered by our New Vehicle Limited Warranties or our Extended Service plans, we offer Tesla Ranger service at a higher cost.

New Vehicle Limited Warranty Policy

Subject to separate limited
warranties for the supplemental restraint system and battery, we provide a four year or 50,000 mile New Vehicle Limited Warranty with every Model S. The New Vehicle Limited Warranty covers the battery for a period of eight years or 100,000 miles,
125,000 miles or unlimited miles, depending on the size of the vehicle’s battery, although the battery’s charging capacity is not covered under the New Vehicle Limited Warranty or any Extended Service plan. Customers have the opportunity
to purchase an Extended Service plan for the period after the end of the New Vehicle Limited Warranty to cover additional services for an additional four years or 50,000 miles, provided it is purchased within a specified period of time.







We provided a three year or 36,000 mile New Vehicle Limited Warranty with every Tesla
Roadster, which we extended to four years or 50,000 miles for the purchasers of our 2008 Tesla Roadster. Customers have the opportunity to purchase Extended Service plans for the period after the end of the New Vehicle Limited Warranty to cover
additional services for up to an additional three years or 36,000 miles, provided they are purchased within a specified period of time.

Our New Vehicle Limited Warranties and Extended Service plans are subject to certain limitations, exclusions or separate warranties, including certain wear items, such as tires, brake pads, paint and
general appearance, and battery performance, and are intended to cover parts and labor to repair defects in material or workmanship in the body, chassis, suspension, interior, electronic systems, battery, powertrain and brake system.

Battery Replacement Programs

While coverage of battery failure due to defects in material or workmanship is included in the New Vehicle Limited Warranty, battery performance, specifically its charging capacity, is not covered in
either the New Vehicle Limited Warranty or the Extended Service plans. However, we have previously provided our Tesla Roadster customers with a battery replacement option to replace the battery in their vehicles at any time after the expiration of
the New Vehicle Limited Warranty but before the tenth anniversary of the purchase date of their vehicles and recently announced a battery replacement option for all three battery variants of our Model S in which customers may purchase, within a
specified period of time, a one-time option (subject to certain limitations and exclusions) to replace the battery at any time before the twelfth anniversary of such purchase date, with certain price adjustments depending upon the year the battery
is replaced.

Manufacturing

Vehicle Assembly

We completed the production of Tesla Roadster
gliders at Lotus Cars Limited in January 2012. We have a limited inventory of Roadsters for sale primarily in Europe and Asia. As of December 31, 2012, we had delivered almost all of our remaining inventory of Roadsters to customers.

We operate the Tesla Factory, an integrated electric vehicle manufacturing facility in Fremont, California to manufacture
Model S and certain components that are critical to our intellectual property and quality standards for Model S. The Tesla Factory contains several manufacturing operations, including stamping, plastics, body assembly, paint operations, battery pack
manufacturing, final vehicle assembly and end-of-line testing. Certain major component systems are purchased from suppliers. We are targeting an annual production rate at this facility for Model S of approximately 20,000 cars in 2013. We believe
that we will be able to increase the annual production capacity of this plant beyond this amount through additional capital spending as well as by changing operating patterns and adding additional shifts.

Powertrain Component Manufacturing

In addition to developing our Model S and future vehicle manufacturing capabilities at the Tesla Factory, we are currently designing, developing and manufacturing lithium-ion battery packs, electric
motors, gearboxes and components both for our vehicles and for our original equipment manufacturer customers. These activities occur at our electric powertrain manufacturing facility in Palo Alto, California and at the Tesla Factory.

Supply Chain

Model S uses over 2,000 purchased parts which we source globally from over 200 suppliers, many of whom are currently our single source
suppliers for these components. We have developed close relationships with several key suppliers particularly in the procurement of cells and certain other key system parts. While we obtain components from multiple sources whenever possible, similar
to other automobile manufacturers, many of the components used in our vehicles are purchased by us from a single source.







To date, we have not qualified alternative sources for most of the single sourced components
used in our vehicles and we generally do not maintain long-term agreements with our suppliers. While we believe that we may be able to establish alternate supply relationships and can obtain or engineer replacement components for our single source
components, we may be unable to do so in the short term or at all at prices or costs that are favorable to us. For example, while several sources of the battery cell we have selected for our battery packs are available, we have fully qualified only
two suppliers for these cells. Any disruption in the supply of battery cells from either vendor could temporarily disrupt production of the vehicles until such time as a different supplier is fully qualified and there can be no assurance that we
would be able to successfully retain alternative suppliers on a timely basis. Moreover, battery cell manufactures may not supply us at reasonable prices or on reasonable terms or may choose to refuse to supply electric vehicle manufacturers to the
extent they determine that the vehicles are not sufficiently safe.

We use various raw materials in our business including
aluminum, steel, nickel and copper. The prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions and global demand for these materials. We believe that we have adequate supplies or sources of availability of the raw materials
necessary to meet our manufacturing and supply requirements. There are always risks and uncertainties, however, with respect to the supply of raw materials that could impact their availability in sufficient quantities or reasonable prices to meet
our needs.

Quality Control

Our quality control efforts are divided between product quality and supplier quality, both of which are focused on designing and producing products and processes with high levels of reliability. Our
product quality engineers work with our engineering team and our suppliers to help ensure that the product designs meet functional specifications and durability requirements. Our supplier quality engineers work with our suppliers to ensure that
their processes and systems are capable of delivering the parts we need at the required quality level, on time, and on budget. Our quality systems engineers create and manage our systems, such as configuration management and corrective action
systems, to help ensure product developers, supplier chain managers, and production controllers have the product information they need.

Customers and Selected Relationships

We currently sell our cars primarily to individual customers. We have strategic or commercial relationships with Daimler, Toyota, and Panasonic. We intend to expand our business by developing and selling
additional powertrain components and systems to Daimler, Toyota and other third party OEMs.

Daimler AG

Beginning in 2008, we commenced efforts on a powertrain development arrangement with Daimler. In May 2009, we
entered into a development agreement with Daimler under which we have performed specified research and development services for the development of a battery pack and charger for Daimler’s Smart fortwo electric drive. All development work
related to the development agreement had been completed as of December 31, 2009. Through December 2011, we had sold over 2,100 battery packs and chargers for the Smart fortwo electric drive program. In the first quarter of 2010, Daimler engaged
us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. A formal agreement for this arrangement was entered into with Daimler in May
2010. In October 2010, we completed the development of the A-Class battery pack and charger and began shipping production parts in February 2011. Through December 2011, we sold over 500 battery packs and chargers for the A-Class EV program. In the
first quarter of 2010, we completed the development and sale of modular battery packs for electric delivery vans for Freightliner, an affiliate of Daimler. Freightliner plans to use these electric vans in a limited number of customer trials.







In February 2012, we received an initial purchase order for the development of a full
electric powertrain system for an additional Mercedes Benz vehicle from Daimler. We are negotiating the agreement for production parts for this B-Class program.

In addition to the agreements described above, we have entered into an exclusivity and intellectual property agreement (EIP Agreement) with Daimler North America Corporation (DNAC), an affiliate of
Daimler, in which we agreed to begin negotiating in good faith to enter into further agreements within certain strategic cooperation areas, including technology collaboration in various electric powertrain areas, automotive engineering support,
joint electric vehicle development efforts and access to component parts for Tesla designed products. Under this EIP Agreement, we agreed that, until November 11, 2009, we would not negotiate or enter into any agreements with other parties that
would be competitive with the arrangements contemplated for these strategic cooperation areas, unless the results of such arrangement would be marketed solely under the Tesla brand. As of that date, we had not executed any further agreements with
Daimler in the areas of strategic cooperation.

The EIP Agreement provides that ending July 2013, if the company receives an
offer from a strategic competitor of Daimler to enter into an agreement for development of a non-Tesla branded vehicle or an integrated electric powertrain system, DNAC would be given the right of first refusal to enter into such agreement with the
company instead of, and on the same terms offered by, the third party.

The EIP Agreement also provides that if we execute a
strategic cooperation agreement with DNAC to jointly engineer an electric vehicle, then additional exclusivities would apply until July 2013, provided a minimum annual volume of sales is achieved. The EIP Agreement provides that none of the
restrictions set out in that agreement, or in any strategic agreement, would limit us from developing technology with any third party for use in a Tesla-branded product or service or related to the Tesla Roadster or Model S, engaging in any
transaction with a company that is not a Daimler competitor, or supplying components for electric powertrains that are designed by third parties.

The EIP Agreement also provides that if the parties enter into the strategic agreements or further agreements, those agreements will allocate intellectual property rights according to certain principles
outlined in the EIP Agreement. In addition, until July 2013, before licensing intellectual property generated outside the scope of any strategic cooperation area to a Daimler competitor, we would first have to offer DNAC the right to license the
intellectual property on a non-exclusive, royalty-bearing basis, or on an exclusive basis in the automotive field; and if DNAC requests the latter, we must negotiate such a license in good faith. If no agreement is reached, however, we would be free
to license the technology to the Daimler competitor, and DNAC could take a non-exclusive license. Both we and Daimler have the right to terminate the EIP Agreement in the event the other party undergoes, or executes an agreement to undergo, a change
of control. Any strategic cooperation agreements entered into between us and Daimler prior to termination will not be affected by such termination.

To date, with the exception of the development agreement for the Smart fortwo electric drive and the agreement for the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of
Daimler’s A-Class electric vehicles, the strategic agreements described in the EIP Agreement have not been entered into, and there can be no assurance that the parties will ever enter into such agreements. Even if we were to enter into such
agreements, the parties may negotiate and agree to terms that are different to those set forth in the EIP Agreement and outlined above. Such different or new terms may be more or less favorable to us.

In addition to these agreements, Blackstar lnvestCo LLC (Blackstar), an affiliate of Daimler, beneficially owned 4,867,929 shares of our
common stock as of December 31, 2012.

Toyota Motor Corporation

In May 2010, we and Toyota announced our intention to cooperate on the development of electric vehicles, and for us to receive
Toyota’s support with sourcing parts and production and engineering expertise for Model S.







In July 2010, we entered into an early phase agreement to develop an electric powertrain for the Toyota RAV4. With an aim by Toyota to market the electric vehicle in the United States in 2012,
prototypes would be made by combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. We began developing and delivering prototypes to Toyota for evaluation in September 2010.

In October 2010, we entered into a contract services agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system,
including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. We completed all of the development services for the RAV4 EV in the first quarter of
2012.

Additionally, in July 2011, we entered into an agreement to supply Toyota with electric powertrain system for the RAV4
EV. We began delivery of these systems to Toyota for installation into the Toyota RAV4 EV in the first half of 2012. Our production activities under this program are expected to continue through 2014.

In addition to these agreements, in July 2010, we sold 2,941,176 shares of our common stock to Toyota at our IPO price of $17.00 per
share.

Panasonic

Panasonic is a supplier of battery cells for our battery packs. In January 2010, we announced that we were collaborating with Panasonic on the development of next-generation electric vehicle cells based
on the 18650 form factor and nickel-based lithium ion chemistry. In October 2011, we finalized a supply agreement for these battery cells. The agreement supplies us with battery cells to build more than 80,000 vehicles over the next four years.

In November 2010, we sold 1,418,573 shares of our common stock to an entity affiliated with Panasonic Corporation at a price
of $21.15 per share, which was the average of the trading highs and lows of our common stock from October 25 to October 29, 2010.

Governmental Programs, Incentives and Regulations

United States Department of Energy Loans

On January 20, 2010,
we entered into a loan facility with the Federal Financing Bank (FFB) and the United States Department of Energy (DOE), under the DOE’s Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program, as set forth in Section 136 of the Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007 (ATVM Program). We refer to such loan facility including amendments thereto, as the DOE Loan Facility. Under the DOE Loan Facility, FFB made available to us two multi-draw term loan facilities in an aggregate
principal amount of $465.0 million and the DOE agreed to reimburse FFB for any liabilities, losses, costs or expenses incurred by FFB with respect to the term loan facilities. In August, 2012, we made our final draw under the DOE Loan Facility.
We began repayment of the DOE Loan Facility on December 15, 2012.

In connection with the DOE Loan Facility, we have also
issued the DOE a warrant to purchase up to 3,085,011 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $7.54 per share and a warrant to purchase up to 5,100 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $8.94 per share. Beginning on
December 15, 2018 and until December 14, 2022, the shares subject to purchase under these warrants will become exercisable in quarterly amounts depending on the average outstanding balance of the loan during the prior quarter. These
warrants may be exercised until December 15, 2023. If we prepay or repay the DOE Loan Facility in full by the recently revised maturity date, no shares will be exercisable under these warrants and the warrants will expire pursuant to their
terms, except in the case of an event of default, which could accelerate the vesting. For more information on the recent amendment to the DOE Loan Facility, see Note 15 (Subsequent Events) to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.







For more information on the DOE Loan Facility, see Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing Authority Tax Incentives

Regulatory Credits

In connection with the delivery and placement into service of our zero emission vehicles in the United Sates, we have earned and will continue to earn various tradable regulatory credits that can be
sold to other manufacturers.

Additionally, under the
Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) national greenhouse gas (GHG) emission standards, vehicle manufacturers are required to meet fleet-wide average carbon dioxide emissions standards for cars and trucks at increasingly lower levels annually
from 2012 – 2025. Those manufacturers whose fleet wide average fails to meet such standards have a deficit in their emission profile. Those manufacturers whose fleet wide average performs better than such standards may earn
credits. Manufacturers may sell excess credits to other manufacturers who can apply such credits to comply with these regulatory requirements. As a manufacturer solely of zero emission vehicles, we earn the full amount of GHG credits
established by the standards on each vehicle sold. We have entered into agreements with another automobile manufacturer to sell the credits that we earn.







We have entered into contracts for the sale of ZEV and GHG credits with several automotive
manufacturers. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we earned revenue from the sale of ZEV and GHG credits of $40.5 million, $2.7 million and $2.8 million, respectively. Our current agreements provide for the sale of
a portion of the total ZEV credits that we will earn from the sale of vehicles that we plan to manufacture in 2013. Our current agreements also provide for sale of substantially all of the GHG credits we will earn from the sale of vehicles that we
manufacture in 2013 and 2014.

Regulation—Vehicle Safety and Testing

Our vehicles are subject to, and the Tesla Roadster complies with, or is exempt from, numerous regulatory requirements established by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), including all applicable United States federal motor vehicle safety standards (FMVSS). The Model S fully complies with all FMVSSs without the need for any exemptions. As a manufacturer, we must
self-certify that a vehicle meets or otherwise obtain an exemption from all applicable FMVSSs, as well as the NHTSA bumper standard, before the vehicle can be imported into or sold in the United States. There are numerous FMVSSs that apply to our
vehicles. Examples of these requirements include:



•Crash-worthiness requirements—including applicable and appropriate level of vehicle structure and occupant protection in frontal, side and
interior impacts including through use of equipment such as seat belts and airbags which must satisfy applicable requirements;



•Crash avoidance requirements—including appropriate steering, braking and equipment requirements, such as, headlamps, tail lamps, and other
required lamps, all of which must conform to various photometric and performance requirements;



•Electric vehicle requirements—limitations on electrolyte spillage, battery retention, and avoidance of electric shock following specified
crash tests;



•Windshield defrosting and defogging—defined zones of the windshield must be cleared within a specified timeframe; and



•Rearview mirror requirements—rearward areas that must be visible to the driver via the mirrors.

Due to the limited number of Roadsters originally produced, we applied for, and were granted, exemptions from certain advanced air bag
and electronic stability control requirements, which applied to Tesla Roadsters manufactured through November 7, 2011. For Model S, we have certified the vehicle as compliant with all U.S. safety standards without exemptions. Under U.S. law, we
are required to certify compliance with, or obtain exemption from all applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards and we have done so with respect to each vehicle we have offered for sale in the United States. Based on testing, engineering
analysis, and other information, we have certified that the Tesla Roadster complies with, or is exempt from all applicable NHTSA standards in effect at the time of manufacture by affixing a certification label to each Tesla Roadster sold. Based on
testing, engineering analysis and other information we have certified the Tesla Model S as complying with all applicable NHTSA standards in effect at the time of manufacture by affixing a certification label to each Model S sold.

We are also required to comply with other requirements of federal laws administered by NHTSA, including the Corporate Average Fuel
Economy standards, Theft Prevention Act requirements, consumer information labeling requirements, early warning reporting requirements regarding warranty claims, field reports, death and injury reports and foreign recalls, and owner’s manual
requirements.

Our vehicles sold in Europe are subject to European Union safety testing regulations. Many of those
regulations, referred to as European Union Whole Vehicle Type Approval (WVTA), are different from the federal motor vehicle safety standards applicable in the United States and may require redesign and/or retesting. Our Tesla Roadsters are currently
approved for sale on a limited basis in the European Union via the Small







Series WVTA, which permits the manufacture and sale in the European Union of no more than 1,000 vehicles per year. Since we have fewer than 1,000 Tesla Roadsters left to sell, we have no
plans to commence testing our Tesla Roadsters for the WVTA to assure compliance with the European Union requirements to permit unlimited sales. Similarly, Australia and Japan have additional testing regulations applicable to high volume
manufacturers. We also plan to keep Australian and Japanese sales of our Tesla Roadsters at a low volume, and have no plans to comply with the Australian and Japanese requirements to permit high volume sales in these jurisdictions. For Model S, we
plan to conduct full EU WVTA homologation. Based on results from efforts currently underway, we believe Model S will be able to meet all applicable EU standards. We also plan to introduce Model S vehicles in other markets such as China, Japan, and
Australia. Plans are currently underway to modify our vehicles to meet the homologation standards for those countries.

The
Federal Trade Commission (FTC) requires us to calculate and display the range of our electric vehicles on a label we affix to the vehicle’s window. The FTC specifies that we follow testing requirements set forth by the Society of Automotive
Engineers (SAE) which further requires that we test using the United States EPA’s combined city and highway testing cycles. In July 2011, the EPA announced new energy efficiency testing methodologies and labeling requirements for electric
vehicles. These new requirements, when applied to our vehicles, resulted in a rated range of 265 miles for the 85 kWh battery pack equipped Model S and a rated range of 208 miles for the 60 kWh battery pack equipped Model S. This was a reduction
from the advertised 300 mile and 230 mile range of these vehicles, respectively, utilizing methodologies that estimated the range of the vehicles at a steady speed of 55 miles per hour. We expect the FTC to issue amended rules to conform to the EPA
standards, which will result in FTC labels mirroring the current EPA label.

The Automobile Information and Disclosure Act
requires manufacturers of motor vehicles to disclose certain information regarding the manufacturer’s suggested retail price, optional equipment and pricing. In addition, the Act allows inclusion of city and highway fuel economy ratings, as
determined by EPA, as well as crash test ratings as determined by NHTSA if such tests are conducted.

Regulation—EPA Emissions & Certificate of Conformity

The Clean Air Act requires that we obtain a Certificate of Conformity issued by the EPA and a California Executive Order issued by the
California Air Resources Board (CARB) with respect to emissions for our vehicles, including Model S. The Certificate of Conformity is required for vehicles sold in states covered by the Clean Air Act’s standards and both the Certificate of
Conformity and the Executive Order is required for vehicles sold in states that have sought and received a waiver from the EPA to utilize California standards. The California standards for emissions control for certain regulated pollutants for new
vehicles and engines sold in California are set by CARB. States that have adopted the California standards as approved by EPA also recognize the Executive Order for sales of vehicles.

Regulation—Battery Safety and Testing

Our battery pack conforms with mandatory regulations that govern transport of “dangerous goods” that may present a risk in transportation, which includes lithium-ion batteries. The governing
regulations, which are issued by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) are based on the UN Recommendations on the Safe Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations, and related UN Manual Tests and Criteria. The
regulations vary by mode of transportation when these items are shipped such as by ocean vessel, rail, truck, or by air.

We
have completed the applicable transportation tests for our prototype and production battery packs demonstrating our compliance with the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, including:



•Altitude simulation—simulating air transport;







•Thermal cycling—assessing cell and battery seal integrity;



•Vibration—simulating vibration during transport;



•Shock—simulating possible impacts during transport; and



•External short circuit—simulating an external short circuit.

We also subject our battery packs to the appropriate tests specified in the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) J2464 and J2929 which
include further tests such as immersion, humidity, and exposure to fire.

We use lithium metal oxide cells in our battery
packs. The cells do not contain any lead, mercury, cadmium, or other hazardous materials, heavy metals, or any toxic materials. Our battery packs include certain packaging materials which contain trace amounts of various hazardous chemicals whose
use, storage and disposal is regulated under federal law. We currently have an agreement with a third party battery recycling company to recycle our battery packs. If a customer wishes to dispose of a battery pack from one of our vehicles, we
anticipate accepting the depleted battery from the customer without any additional charge.

Automobile Manufacturer and
Dealer Regulation

State law regulates the manufacture, distribution and sale of automobiles, and generally requires
motor vehicle manufacturers and dealers to be licensed. To the extent possible, we plan to secure dealer licenses (or the equivalent of a dealer license) and engage in activities as a motor vehicle dealer in so far as we are permitted to do so as we
open additional Tesla stores and service centers. Some states do not permit automobile manufacturers to be licensed as dealers or to act in the capacity of a dealer. To sell vehicles to residents of states where we are not licensed as a dealer, to
the extent permitted by local law, both the actual sale would generally have to occur out of state. In this scenario, it is possible that activities related to marketing, advertising, taking orders, taking reservations and reservation payments, and
delivering vehicles could be viewed by a state as conducting unlicensed activities in the state or otherwise violating the state’s motor vehicle industry laws. Regulators in these states may require us to hold and meet the requirements of
appropriate dealer or other licenses and, in states in which manufacturers are prohibited from acting as dealers, may otherwise prohibit or impact our planned activities.

In jurisdictions where we do not have a Tesla store, a customer may try to purchase our vehicles over the internet. However, some states have laws providing that a manufacturer cannot deliver a vehicle to
a resident of such state except through a dealer licensed to do business in that state which may be interpreted to require us to open a store in such state in order to sell vehicles to its residents. In some states where we have opened a viewing
“gallery” that is not a full retail location, it is possible that a state regulator could take the position that activities at our gallery constitute an unlicensed motor vehicle dealership and thereby violates applicable
manufacturer-dealer laws. Although we would prefer that a state regulator address any concerns by discussing such concerns with us and requesting voluntary compliance, a state could also take action against us, including levying fines or requiring
that we refrain from certain activities. In addition, some states have requirements that service facilities be available with respect to vehicles sold in the state, which may be interpreted to also require that service facilities be available with
respect to vehicles sold over the internet to residents of the state thereby limiting our ability to sell vehicles in states where we do not maintain service facilities.

The foregoing examples of state laws governing the sale of motor vehicles are just some of the regulations we face as we sell our vehicles. In many states, the application of state motor vehicle laws to
our specific sales model is largely without precedent, particularly with respect to sales over the internet, and would be determined by a fact specific analysis of numerous factors, including whether we have a physical presence or employees in the
applicable state, whether we advertise or conduct other activities in the applicable state, how the sale transaction is structured, the volume of sales into the state, and whether the state in question prohibits manufacturers from acting as dealers.
As a result of the fact specific and untested nature of these issues, and the fact that applying these laws intended for the traditional automobile distribution model to our sales model allows







for some interpretation and discretion by the regulators, state legal prohibitions may prevent us from selling to consumers in such state.

California laws, and potentially the laws of other states, restrict the ability of licensed dealers to advertise or take deposits for
vehicles before they are available. In November 2007, we became aware that the New Motor Vehicle Board of the California Department of Transportation has considered whether our reservation and advertising policies comply with these laws. To date, we
have not received any communications on this topic from the New Motor Vehicle Board or the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) which has the power to enforce these laws. There can be no assurance that the DMV will not take the position that our
vehicle reservation or advertising practices violate the law. We expect that if the DMV determines that we may have violated the law, it would initially discuss its concerns with us and request voluntary compliance. If we are ultimately found to be
in violation of California law, we might be precluded from taking reservation payments, and the DMV could take other actions against us, including levying fines and requiring us to refund reservation payments. Resolution of any inquiry may also
involve restructuring certain aspects of the reservation program. The DMV also has the power to suspend licenses to manufacture and sell vehicles in California, following a hearing on the merits, which it has typically exercised only in cases of
significant or repeat violations and/or a refusal to comply with DMV directions.

Certain states may have specific laws which
apply to dealers, or manufacturers selling directly to consumers, or both. For example, the state of Washington requires that reservation payments or other payment received from residents in the state of Washington must be placed in a segregated
account until delivery of the vehicle, which account must be unencumbered by any liens from creditors of the dealer and may not be used by the dealer. Consequently, we established a segregated account for reservation payments in the state of
Washington in January 2010. There can be no assurance that other state or foreign jurisdictions will not require similar segregation of reservation payment received from customers. Our inability to access these funds for working capital purposes
could harm our liquidity.

Furthermore, while we have performed an analysis of the principal laws in the European Union
relating to our distribution model and believe we comply with such laws, we have not performed a complete analysis in all foreign jurisdictions in which we may sell vehicles. Accordingly, there may be laws in jurisdictions we have not yet entered or
laws we are unaware of in jurisdictions we have entered that may restrict our vehicle reservation practices or other business practices. Even for those jurisdictions we have analyzed, the laws in this area can be complex, difficult to interpret and
may change over time.

In addition to licensing laws, specific laws and regulations in each of the states (and their
interpretation by regulators) may limit or determine how we sell, market, advertise, and otherwise solicit sales, take orders, take reservations and reservation payments, deliver, and service vehicles for consumers and engage in other activities in
that state. While we have performed an analysis of laws in certain jurisdictions in which we have Tesla stores, we have not performed a complete analysis in all jurisdictions in which we may sell vehicles. Accordingly, there may be laws in
jurisdictions we have not yet entered that may restrict our vehicle reservation practices or other business practices.

Competition

Competition in the automotive industry is intense and evolving. We believe the impact of new regulatory requirements for
occupant safety and vehicle emissions, technological advances in powertrain and consumer electronics components, and shifting customer needs and expectations are causing the industry to evolve in the direction of electric-based vehicles. We believe
the primary competitive factors in our markets include but are not limited to:



•technological innovation;



•product quality and safety;







•service options;



•product performance;



•design and styling;



•product price; and



•manufacturing efficiency.

We believe that our vehicles compete in the market both based on their traditional segment classification as well as based on their propulsion technology. Within the electric-based vehicle segment, there
are three primary means of powertrain electrification which will differentiate various competitors in this market:



•Electric Vehiclesare vehicles powered completely by a single on-board energy storage system (battery pack or fuel cell) which is refueled
directly from an electricity source. Both the Tesla Roadster and Model S are examples of electric vehicles.



•Plug-in Hybrid Vehiclesare vehicles powered by both a battery pack with an electric motor and an internal combustion engine which can be
refueled both with traditional petroleum fuels for the engine and electricity for the battery pack. The internal combustion engine can either work in parallel with the electric motor to power the wheels, such as in a parallel plug-in hybrid vehicle,
or be used only to recharge the battery, such as in a series plug-in hybrid vehicle like the Chevrolet Volt.



•Hybrid Electric Vehiclesare vehicles powered by both a battery pack with an electric motor and an internal combustion engine but which can only
be refueled with traditional petroleum fuels as the battery pack is charged via regenerative braking, such as used in a hybrid electric vehicle like the Toyota Prius.

The worldwide automotive market, particularly for alternative fuel vehicles, is highly competitive today and we expect it will become
even more so in the future. Prior to the introduction of the Nissan Leaf in December 2010, no mass produced performance highway-capable electric vehicles were being sold in the United States. In Japan, Mitsubishi has been selling its electric iMiEV
since April 2010. We expect additional competitors to enter the United States and Europe within the next several years, and as they do so, we expect that we will experience significant competition. With respect to our Tesla Roadster, we currently
face strong competition from established automobile manufacturers, including manufacturers of high-performance vehicles, such as Porsche and Ferrari. In addition, upon the launch of our Model S sedan, we will face competition from existing and
future automobile manufacturers in the extremely competitive premium sedan market, including Audi, BMW, Lexus and Mercedes.

Many established and new automobile manufacturers have entered or have announced plans to enter the alternative fuel vehicle market. For
example, Nissan introduced the Nissan Leaf, a fully electric vehicle in December 2010 and Ford introduced the pure electric Ford Focus and plug-in hybrid Ford C-Max Energi and Ford Fusion Energi in 2012. In addition, several manufacturers, including
General Motors, Toyota, Ford, and Honda, are each selling hybrid vehicles, and certain of these manufacturers have announced plug-in versions of their hybrid vehicles. For example, in December 2010, General Motors introduced the Chevrolet Volt,
which is a plug-in hybrid vehicle that operates purely on electric power for a limited number of miles, at which time an internal combustion engine engages to recharge the battery.

Moreover, it has been reported that BMW, Daimler, Lexus, Audi, Fiat, Renault and Volkswagen are also developing electric vehicles.
Several new start-ups have also announced plans to enter the market for performance electric vehicles, although none of these have yet come to market. Finally, electric vehicles have already been brought to market in China and other foreign
countries and we expect a number of those manufacturers to enter the United States market as well.







Most of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial,
technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the design, development, manufacturing, distribution, promotion, sale and support of their products. Virtually all of our competitors
have more extensive customer bases and broader customer and industry relationships than we do. In addition, almost all of these companies have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. Our competitors may be in a stronger
position to respond quickly to new technologies and may be able to design, develop, market and sell their products more effectively. We believe our exclusive focus on electric vehicles and electric vehicle components, as well as our history of
vehicle development and production, are the basis on which we can compete in the global automotive market in spite of the challenges posed by our competition; however, we have a limited history of operations.

Intellectual Property

Our success depends, at least in part, on our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. To accomplish this, we
rely on a combination of patents, patent applications, trade secrets, including know-how, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements, copyright laws, trademarks, intellectual property licenses and other contractual rights to establish and
protect our proprietary rights in our technology. As of December 31, 2012, we had 117 issued patents and more than 258 pending patent applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and internationally in a broad range of areas.
Our issued patents start expiring in 2026. We intend to continue to file additional patent applications with respect to our technology. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether
the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Even if granted, there can be no assurance that these pending patent applications will provide us with protection.

Seasonality

Sales of the Tesla Roadster have fluctuated on a seasonal
basis with increased sales during the spring and summer months in our second and third fiscal quarters relative to our fourth and first fiscal quarters. We note that, in general, automotive sales tend to decline over the winter season and we
anticipate that our sales of Model S, Model X and other electric vehicles we introduce in the future may have similar seasonality. However, our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to judge the exact nature or extent of the
seasonality of our business. We do not expect our powertrain component sales and development services revenue to be impacted to a significant extent by seasonality.

Segment Information

We have determined that we operate as one reporting
segment, which is the design, development, manufacturing and sales of electric vehicles and electric powertrain components. For information regarding financial data by geographic areas, see Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 2,964 full-time employees. None of our employees are currently represented by labor
unions or are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with respect to their employment. To date, we have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good.

Available Information

We file or furnish periodic reports and amendments thereto, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
and Current Reports on Form 8-K; proxy statements and other information







with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports, amendments, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F
Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Our reports, amendments thereto, proxy statements and other information are also made available, free of charge, on our investor relations website atir.teslamotors.comas soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such information with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



