ITEM 1.BUSINESS

We design,
develop, manufacture and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles and advanced electric vehicle powertrain components. We own our sales and service network and have operationally structured our business in a manner that we believe will enable
us to rapidly develop and launch advanced electric vehicles and technologies. We believe our vehicles, electric vehicle engineering expertise, and operational structure differentiates us from incumbent automobile manufacturers.

We are the first company to commercially produce a federally-compliant electric vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, which achieves a
market-leading range on a single charge combined with attractive design, driving performance and zero tailpipe emissions. Our Tesla Roadster offers impressive acceleration and performance without producing any tailpipe emissions. The Tesla
Roadster’s proprietary electric vehicle powertrain system is the foundation of our business and, with design enhancements, will also form the basis for our Model S sedan, our Model X crossover, as well as future vehicles.

Model S is in an advanced stage of development and is currently scheduled to commence customer deliveries by July 2012. We expect that
Model S will be manufactured with an adaptable platform architecture upon which other future vehicles, including our Model X crossover, will be based. We revealed a prototype of the Model X crossover in February 2012. We plan to start Model X
production in late 2013 and ramp up to significant customer deliveries in early 2014. This unique vehicle has been designed to fill the niche between the roominess of a minivan and the style of an SUV, while having high performance features such as
a dual motor all-wheel drive system.

In addition to developing our own vehicles, we provide services for the development of
electric powertrain components and sell electric powertrain components to other automotive manufacturers. We have provided development services and powertrain components to Daimler AG (Daimler) for its Smart fortwo and A-Class electric vehicles. We
recently announced the receipt of an initial purchase order for the development of a full powertrain system for an additional Mercedes Benz vehicle from Daimler. We also have almost completed a development services program to produce a full electric
powertrain system for Toyota Motor Corporation (Toyota) for use in its RAV4 EV. We anticipate beginning to ship these systems to Toyota during the first half of 2012 under our supply and services agreement.

The commercial production of a highway capable, fully electric vehicle that meets consumers’ range and performance expectations
requires substantial design, engineering, and integration work on almost every system of our vehicles. Our roots in Silicon Valley have enabled us to recruit engineers with strong skills in electrical engineering, power electronics and software
engineering. We have complemented this talent base with automotive engineers with substantial expertise in vehicle engineering and manufacturing. Our ability to combine expertise in electric powertrain and vehicle engineering provides a broad
capability in electric vehicle design and systems integration. We believe these capabilities, coupled with our focus solely on electric vehicle technology as well as our strong inhouse engineering and manufacturing capacity, will enable us to
sustain the electric vehicle industry leadership we created through the production of the Tesla Roadster.

We sell and service
our Tesla Roadster though our company-owned sales and service network in the North America, Europe and Asia. Our intent is to offer a compelling customer experience while gathering rapid customer feedback and achieving operating efficiencies, better
control over the costs of inventory, warranty service, pricing, and the development of the Tesla brand. Our Tesla stores do not carry large vehicle inventories and, as a result, do not require corresponding large floor spaces. We believe the
benefits we receive from distribution ownership, combined with our product design based on modularity and common platforms, will enable us to improve the speed of product development and improve the capital efficiency of our business. We believe
that this approach provides us with a competitive advantage as compared to incumbent automobile manufacturers.







Our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, can accelerate from zero to 60 miles per hour in 3.9
seconds and has a maximum speed of approximately 120 miles per hour. The Roadster Sport version can accelerate from zero to 60 miles per hour in 3.7 seconds. The Tesla Roadster has a range of 245 miles on a single charge, as determined using the
United States Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s), combined two-cycle city/highway test. The Tesla Roadster has a range that is almost double that of any other commercially released electric vehicle and reportedly set a new world
distance record of 313 miles on a single charge for a production electric car in a rally across Australia as part of the 2009 Global Green Challenge. As of December 31, 2011, we had delivered approximately 2,150 Tesla Roadsters to customers in
over 31 countries, almost all of which were sold in North America and Europe. We concluded the production run of the Tesla Roadster in January 2012. We are selling our remaining Tesla Roadsters primarily in Europe and Asia during 2012 until our
inventory is depleted. To date, our customers have driven the Tesla Roadster for an estimated aggregate of almost 20 million miles.

We announced our second electric vehicle, Model S, with the public exhibition of a drivable early prototype in March 2009. In October 2011 we invited over three thousand customers and other
stakeholders to see and ride in the beta prototypes of Model S at our manufacturing facility in Fremont, California, the Tesla Factory. We have completed the construction of several drivable Model S alpha and beta prototypes, which are currently
undergoing detailed testing. We currently plan to begin customer deliveries of Model S by July 2012.

Model S is a
four door, five-passenger premium sedan that offers exceptional performance, functionality and attractive styling. As a fully electric vehicle, Model S will produce zero tailpipe emissions while accelerating from zero to 60 miles per hour in a
targeted time of as low as 4.4 seconds in its performance version. The base Model S will have an effective base price of $49,900 in the United States with the 40 kilowatt-hour (kWh) battery pack option, assuming and after giving effect to the
continuation of a United States federal tax credit of $7,500 for the purchase of alternative fuel vehicles. Even without the tax credit, we believe the base list price will be competitive from a pricing perspective with other premium vehicles. We
believe that Model S will demonstrate our ability to produce increasingly affordable electric vehicles that offer long-range capabilities and uncompromised performance, energy efficiency, convenience and design.

We plan to offer Model S with a variety of battery pack options—40 kWh, 60 kWh and 85 kWh—which we estimate will offer a range
on a single charge of 160 miles, 230 miles, and 300 miles, respectively, while traveling at a steady speed of 55 miles per hour. The EPA’s new fuel economy requirements will require us to label Model S utilizing new and different energy
efficiency testing methodologies. These methodologies differ from the one we have used to estimate the range of the vehicles at a steady speed of 55 miles per hour and could reduce the range reported on the required labeling of our vehicles by up to
30% as compared to our current estimates.

We are designing Model S for a significantly broader customer base than the Tesla
Roadster. Accordingly, we currently intend to target an annual production rate of approximately 20,000 cars per year beginning in 2013 from our Tesla Factory. We currently plan to commence deliveries by July 2012 and to deliver approximately 5,000
Model S sedans in 2012. As of December 31, 2011, we had received over 8,000 customer reservations with a minimum refundable payment of $5,000.

We have nearly completed the Tesla Factory, our integrated electric vehicle manufacturing facility in Fremont, California for the manufacture of Model S and its components. In October 2010, we completed
the purchase of this facility from New United Motor Manufacturing, Inc. (NUMMI). We intend to use the facility for the production of our Model S vehicle, Model X crossover, and to build our future electric vehicles. We have entered into a loan
agreement with the United States Federal Financing Bank and United States Department of Energy (DOE Loan Facility), to arrange loans for up to $465.0 million, $363.9 million of which is intended for the continued development of Model S and
the build out of the Tesla Factory.

The electric powertrain we developed for the Tesla Roadster has provided the foundational
technology for our Model S, our Model X crossover and our future vehicles, and for electric powertrain components and systems







that we are selling to Daimler and its affiliates and that we intend to sell to Toyota. Our electric powertrain consists of the following components: our modular battery pack, our power
electronics, gearbox, our motor and control and integration software which enables the components to operate as a system. We sell certain of these components to Daimler and intend to sell these systems to Toyota, and have secured $101.2 million
of an aggregate $465.0 million from our DOE Loan Facility to fund the infrastructure for these powertrain activities. We believe that our efforts in our powertrain development will enable us to advance our technology and rapidly and cost
effectively develop vehicles.

Our battery pack and electric powertrain system has enabled us to deliver market-leading range
capability on our vehicles at what we believe is a compelling battery cost per kilowatt-hour. The battery pack of the Tesla Roadster uses commercially available lithium-ion battery cells and contains 53 kilowatt-hours of usable energy, almost double
the energy of any other commercially available electric vehicle battery pack, thereby significantly increasing its range capability. Designing an electric powertrain and a vehicle to exploit its energy efficiency has required extensive safety
testing and innovation in battery packs, motors, powertrain systems and vehicle engineering. Our proprietary technology includes cooling systems, safety systems, charge balancing systems, battery engineering for vibration and environmental
durability, customized motor design and the software and electronics management systems necessary to manage battery and vehicle performance under demanding real-life driving conditions. These technology innovations have resulted in an extensive
intellectual property portfolio—as of December 31, 2011, we had 59 issued patents and more than 230 pending patent applications with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and internationally in a broad range of areas.

We are designing our vehicles to enable the cost effective development of our future vehicles. For example, we are designing a common
platform architecture for Model S, which compactly positions the battery pack, motor and other elements of our powertrain within the frame of the vehicle. We believe this architecture will form the basis of several future vehicles, including our
planned Model X crossover, and enable us to efficiently and cost effectively launch these new vehicle models in the future.

Our design and vehicle engineering capabilities, combined with the technical advancements of our powertrain system, have enabled us to
design and develop zero tailpipe emission vehicles that we believe overcome the design, styling, and performance issues that we believe have historically limited broad consumer adoption of electric vehicles. As a result, we believe our Tesla
Roadster customers enjoy, and Model S customers will enjoy, several benefits, including:



•Long Range and Recharging Flexibility. The range of the Tesla Roadster is almost double the range of any other commercially available electric
vehicle. We are designing Model S to offer an even greater range option. In addition, the Tesla Roadster incorporates our proprietary on-board charging system, permitting recharging from almost any available electrical outlet, and we are designing
certain battery pack versions of Model S to offer fast charging capability from our planned SuperCharger network. We believe the long-range and charging flexibility of our vehicles will help reduce consumer anxiety over range, alleviate the
need for expensive, large-scale charging infrastructure, and differentiate our vehicles as compared to our competitors’ currently announced electric vehicle product offerings.



•Energy Efficiency and Cost of Ownership. We believe our Tesla Roadster offers and our Model S will offer consumers an attractive cost of
ownership when compared to similar internal combustion engine or hybrid electric vehicles. Using only a single electric powertrain enables us to create a lighter, more energy efficient vehicle that is mechanically simpler than currently available
hybrid or internal combustion engine vehicles. We also expect our electric vehicles will have lower relative maintenance costs than hybrid, plug-in hybrid, or internal combustion engine vehicles due to fewer moving parts and the absence of certain
components, including oil, oil filters, spark plugs and engine valves. Additionally, government incentives that are currently available can reduce the cost of ownership even further.







•High-Performance Without Compromised Design or Functionality. We believe we have been able to successfully overcome the design and performance
tradeoff issues that encumbered most early electric vehicle designs. We believe the Tesla Roadster delivers an unparalleled driving experience with instantaneous and sustained acceleration through an extended range of speed. In addition, our
Model S is being designed to seat five adults, provide best in class storage in the trunk and hood while offering design and performance comparable to, or better than, other premium sedans.

Our Vehicles and Products

We currently design, manufacture and sell fully electric vehicles and electric powertrain components.

The Tesla Roadster

Our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, is the first high-performance electric sports car. The two-seat, convertible Tesla Roadster has a combination of range, style, performance and energy efficiency that
we believe is unmatched in the market today. It can accelerate from zero to 60 miles per hour in 3.9 seconds and has a maximum speed of approximately 120 miles per hour. The Tesla Roadster also has a range of 245 miles on a single charge, as
determined using the United States EPA’s, combined two-cycle city/highway test. This range is almost double that of any other commercially released electric vehicle.

As of December 31, 2011, we had delivered approximately 2,150 Tesla Roadsters to customers in over 31 countries, almost all of which were sold to customers in North America and Europe. The Tesla
Roadster complies with, or is exempt from, all applicable vehicle safety standards in the United States, the European Union as well as select other countries. To date, our customers have driven the Tesla Roadster for an estimated aggregate of almost
20 million miles. We concluded the production run of the Tesla Roadster in January 2012. We are selling our remaining Tesla Roadsters primarily in Europe and Asia during 2012 until our inventory is depleted.

The cumulative capital expenditures and research and development costs for the Tesla Roadster from our inception to the date we delivered
our first Tesla Roadster was approximately $125 million.

We have continued to rapidly develop the Tesla Roadster since its
introduction. In June 2009, nine months after its commercial introduction, we launched the Tesla Roadster 2, as well as a high-performance variant, the Tesla Roadster Sport. We delivered our first right-hand drive model of the Tesla Roadster in
January 2010 and have since delivered right-hand drive Roadsters into key markets such as the United Kingdom, Japan, Hong Kong, and Australia. In July 2010, we released the Roadster 2.5, an upgraded version of Roadster 2.

Model S

Our second vehicle, Model S, is currently expected to begin customer deliveries by July of 2012 and we currently plan to deliver approximately 5,000 Model S sedans in 2012. We are leveraging
technologies within the electric powertrain of the Tesla Roadster to create a four-door, five-adult-passenger sedan that produces zero tailpipe emissions while accelerating from zero to 60 miles per hour in a targeted time of as low as 4.4 seconds
in its performance version. Model S acceleration from zero to 60 miles per hour is targeted at 6.5 seconds, 5.9 seconds and 5.6 seconds for the 40 kWh, 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options, respectively. We have
designed Model S to include a third row with two rear-facing child seats, subject to applicable safety regulations and requirements, allowing us to offer a seven passenger sedan. The drivable early prototype of Model S was exhibited to the public in
March 2009 and as of December 31, 2011, we had received over 8,000 customer reservations with a minimum refundable payment of $5,000.

We plan to offer Model S with a variety of battery pack options—40 kWh, 60 kWh and 85 kWh—which we estimate will offer a range on a single charge of 160 miles, 230 miles, and 300 miles,
respectively, while traveling at a steady speed of 55 miles per hour. We expect that these options will allow customers to purchase an electric vehicle that best matches their personal driving needs. The EPA’s new fuel economy requirements







will require us to label Model S utilizing new and different energy efficiency testing methodologies. These methodologies differ from the one we have used to estimate the range of the vehicles at
a steady speed of 55 miles per hour and could reduce the range reported on the required labeling of our vehicles by up to 30% as compared to our current estimates.

To complement its range capabilities, we also are offering Model S with a package of recharging options. We are offering the capability to fast charge Model S vehicles equipped with either the 60 kWh or
85 kWh battery packs at one of Tesla’s SuperCharger facilities, which we plan to start installing at selected locations in the United States in 2012. We anticipate that the fast charge capability will allow Model S owners to replenish 50% of
the battery pack in about 30 minutes. This feature would offer these drivers a rapid and convenient way to recharge their vehicles. In addition, we are designing Model S to incorporate a modular battery pack in the floor of the vehicle, enabling it
to be rapidly swapped out at a specialized commercial battery exchange facility that we anticipate may be available in the future.

We are designing Model S to offer a compelling combination of functionality, convenience and styling without compromising performance and energy efficiency. With the battery pack in the floor of the
vehicle and the motor and gearbox in line with the rear axle, we have designed Model S to provide best in class storage space of 36.8 cubic feet, including storage under both the tailgate and the hood. By way of comparison, this storage space
exceeds the approximately 14 cubic feet of storage available in the 2009 BMW 5 Series sedan and the approximately 21 cubic feet of storage available in the 2009 Lincoln Town Car. We are also planning to equip Model S with premium luxury
features, including a 17 inch touch screen driver interface, advanced wireless connectivity, such as 3G connectivity, and driver customization of the infotainment and climate control systems of the vehicle. We are designing Model S with the intent
to achieve a five star safety rating. We believe the intended combination of performance, styling, convenience and energy efficiency of Model S will help position it as a compelling alternative to other vehicles in the luxury and performance
segments.

We have announced that the 45 kWh, 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options of Model S will have an effective
base price of $49,900, $59,900, and $69,900, respectively, in the United States, assuming and after giving effect to the continuation of a United States federal tax credit of $7,500 for the purchase of alternative fuel vehicles. Even without the tax
credit, we believe the base list price will be competitive with other premium vehicles. We have also announced a performance version of Model S. Equipped with the 85 kWh battery pack and a high performance drive inverter, we anticipate that the
Model S performance version will accelerate from zero to 60 miles per hour in 4.4 seconds. The effective base price of the Model S performance version is $84,900.

We anticipate that the initial units of Model S will be introduced with a Signature Series which will have an 85 kWh battery pack and include certain colors and interior options, some of which may not be
available in the general production of Model S. We also offer the Signature Series with a performance version. The effective base price of the Signature Series is $87,900 and the effective base price of the Signature Series performance version is
$97,900.

We are designing Model S to provide a lower cost of ownership as compared to other vehicles in its class. We
consider the purchase price, cost of fuel and the cost of maintenance over a six year ownership period in this calculation. We assume comparable residual values, warranties, insurance costs and promotions and assume that currently available consumer
incentives are still available at the time of a Model S purchase. In addition to the competitive pricing of Model S relative to other premium vehicles, we estimate that customers of electric vehicles will enjoy lower fuel costs. For example,
assuming an average of 12,000 miles driven per year, an average electricity cost of 11.0 cents per kilowatt-hour and an average gasoline price of $3.38 per gallon over the full ownership of the vehicle which were the average electricity cost and
gasoline price in the United States, respectively, for January 2012, and based on our estimate of the energy efficiency of Model S, we estimate that our Model S could have approximately $1,900 per year less in fuel costs than a comparable
premium internal combustion engine sedan. Furthermore, we expect Model S will have lower maintenance costs than comparable premium internal combustion engine sedans due to fewer moving parts and the absence of certain components, including oil, oil
filters, spark plugs and engine valves.







Model X and Future Vehicle Roadmap

We expect that Model S will be manufactured with an adaptable platform architecture and common electric powertrain so that we can use the
platform of Model S to create future electric vehicle models. In particular, by designing our electric powertrain within the chassis to accommodate different vehicle body styles, we believe that we can save significant time in future vehicle
development. In addition, we believe our strategy of using commercially available battery cells will enable us to leverage improvements in cell chemistries and rapidly introduce planned vehicles with different range options. However, we may make
changes to the design of Model S, including changes that may make it more difficult to use the Model S platform for future vehicles.

In February 2012, we revealed an early prototype of the Model X crossover as the first vehicle we intend to develop by leveraging the Model S platform. This unique vehicle has been designed to fill the
niche between the roominess of a minivan and the style of an SUV, while having high performance features such as a dual motor all-wheel drive system. We currently plan to start production of Model X in the fourth quarter of 2013 and ramp up to
significant customer deliveries in early 2014. We anticipate that we will make Model X available with 60kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options, with pricing of each version similar to those of a comparably equipped Model S. We currently intend to
target an annual production rate of approximately 10,000 -15,000 cars per year from our Tesla Factory.

We have also publicly
announced our intent to develop a third generation electric vehicle to be produced at the Tesla Factory. We intend to offer this vehicle at a lower price point and expect to produce it at higher volumes than our Model S. We expect that this
vehicle will be produced a few years after the introduction of the Model X crossover.

Powertrain Development and
Sales

In addition to our own vehicles, we also design, develop, manufacture and sell advanced electric vehicle
powertrain components.

In May 2009, we entered into a development agreement with Daimler under which we performed specified
research and development services for the development of a battery pack and charger for Daimler’s Smart fortwo electric drive. All development work related to the development agreement had been completed as of December 31, 2009. Through
December 2011, we had sold over 2,100 battery packs and chargers for the Smart fortwo electric drive program.

In the first
quarter of 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. A formal agreement for this arrangement was
entered into with Daimler in May 2010. In October 2010, we completed the development of the A-Class battery pack and charger and began shipping production components for a demonstration fleet in February 2011. Through December 2011, we had sold over
500 battery packs and chargers for the A-Class EV program.

In the first quarter of 2010, we completed the development and
sale of modular battery packs for electric delivery vans for Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation (Freightliner), an affiliate of Daimler. Freightliner plans to use these electric vans in a limited number of customer trials.

In May 2010, we and Toyota announced our intention to cooperate on the development of electric vehicles, and for us to receive
Toyota’s support with sourcing parts and production and engineering expertise for Model S. In July 2010, we entered into an early phase agreement to develop an electric powertrain for the Toyota RAV4. With an aim by Toyota to market the
electric vehicle in the United States in 2012, prototypes would be made by combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. We began developing and delivering prototypes to Toyota for evaluation in September 2010. In October 2010,
we entered into a contract services







agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system, including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which will be integrated into an
electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. Pursuant to our agreements, Toyota would pay us up to $69 million for the anticipated development services to be provided by us over the expected term of our performance. We expect to complete all of the
development services for the RAV4 EV in the first quarter of 2012.

Additionally, in July 2011, we entered into an agreement
to supply Toyota with an electric powertrain system for the RAV4 EV. We plan to begin delivery of these systems to Toyota for installation into the Toyota RAV4 EV in the first half of 2012. Our production activities under this program are expected
to continue through 2014

In February 2012, we received an initial purchase order for the development of a full electric
powertrain system for an additional Mercedes vehicle from Daimler. We are negotiating the agreement for production parts for this project; however, no agreement has yet been executed and there are no assurances that we will be able to enter into any
such agreement.

We are continuing to develop our electric powertrain component and systems activities and have secured a
$101.2 million loan under our DOE Loan Facility for the expansion of our engineering and production capability for these activities in our Palo Alto facility. This facility, which also serves as our corporate headquarters, houses our research
and development services, including cell and component testing and prototyping, as well as manufacturing of powertrain components for sales to third parties.

Technology

We believe the core competencies of our company are powertrain
and vehicle engineering. Our core intellectual property is contained within our electric powertrain. Our electric powertrain consists of the following: battery pack, power electronics, motor, gearbox and the control software which enables the
components to operate as a system. We designed each of these major elements for our Tesla Roadster and plan to use much of this technology in Model S, Model X, our future electric vehicles and powertrain components that we build for other
manufacturers. Our powertrain and battery pack have a modular design, enabling future generations of electric vehicles to incorporate a significant amount of this technology. Further, our powertrain is very compact and contains far fewer moving
parts than the internal combustion powertrain. These features enable us to adapt it for a variety of applications, including our future vehicles and any powertrain components we build for other manufacturers.

Battery Pack

We design our battery packs to safely store significant amounts of energy and to have long lives. For example, we have designed our Tesla Roadster battery packs to store 53 kilowatt hours of useful energy
and to have a life of over 100,000 miles or seven years. In addition, we have designed our battery packs to be modular so that we can leverage technology developments across our different vehicles and products. Our proprietary technology includes
cooling systems, safety systems, charge balancing systems, battery engineering for vibration and environmental durability, robotic manufacturing processes, customized motor design and the software and electronics management systems necessary to
manage battery and vehicle performance under demanding real-life driving conditions. We have significant experience and expertise in the safety and management systems needed to work with lithium-ion cells in the demanding automotive environment. We
believe these advancements have enabled us to produce a battery pack at a low cost per kilowatt-hour.

We believe one of our
core competencies is the design of our complete battery pack system. We have designed our battery pack system to permit flexibility with respect to battery cell chemistry, form factor and vendor that we adopt for battery cell supply. In so doing, we
believe that we can leverage the substantial battery cell investments and advancements being made globally by battery cell manufacturers to continue to improve the







cost per kilowatt-hour of our battery pack. We maintain an internal battery cell testing lab and an extensive performance database of the many available lithium-ion cell vendors and chemistry
types. We intend to incorporate the battery cells that provide the best value and performance possible into our battery packs, and we expect this to continue over time as battery cells continue to improve in energy storage capacity, longevity, power
delivery and cost. We believe this flexibility will enable us to continue to evaluate new battery cells as they become commercially viable, and thereby optimize battery pack system performance and cost for our current and future vehicles. We believe
our ability to change battery cell chemistries and vendors while retaining our existing investments in software, electronics, testing and vehicle packaging, will enable us to quickly deploy various battery cells into our products and leverage the
latest advancements in battery cell technology.

The range of our electric vehicles on a single charge declines principally as
a function of usage, time and charging patterns. A customer’s use of their Tesla vehicle as well as the frequency with which they charge the battery of their Tesla vehicle can result in additional deterioration of the battery’s ability to
hold a charge. For example, we currently expect that the Tesla Roadster battery pack will retain approximately 60-65% of its ability to hold its initial charge after approximately 100,000 miles or seven years, which will result in a decrease to the
vehicle’s initial range. In addition, based on internal testing, we estimate that our Tesla Roadster would have a 5-10% reduction in range when operated in -20°C temperatures.

To date, we have tested hundreds of battery cells of different chemistries, form factors and designs. Based on this evaluation, we are
presently using lithium-ion battery cells based on the 18650 form factor in all of our battery packs. These battery cells are commercially available in large quantities. We currently intend to use the same battery cell form factor in Model S and
Model X. We recently entered into a supply agreement with Panasonic Corporation (Panasonic) for the use of Panasonic’s battery cells in Model S. We expect these battery cells to exhibit better performance and longer lifetimes than the battery
cells used in the Tesla Roadster.

Power Electronics

The power electronics in our electric powertrain govern the flow of electrical current throughout the car, primarily the current that
flows into and out of the battery pack. The power electronics has two primary functions, the control of torque generation in the motor while driving and the control of energy delivery back into the battery pack while charging.

The first function is accomplished through the drive inverter, which converts direct current (DC) from the battery pack into alternating
current (AC) to drive our three-phase induction motors. The drive inverter also converts the AC generated by regenerative braking back into DC for electrical storage in the battery pack. The drive inverter performs this function by using a
high-performance digital signal processor which runs some of the most complicated and detailed software in the vehicle. In so doing, the drive inverter is directly responsible for the performance, high efficiency and overall driving experience of
the vehicle.

The second function, charging the battery pack, is accomplished by the charger, which converts alternating
current (usually from a wall outlet or other electricity source) into direct current which can be accepted by the battery. The charger enables us to use any available source of power to charge our vehicle. Our vehicles can recharge on any electrical
outlet from a common outlet of 15 amps and 120 volts all the way up to a high power outlet of 70 amps and 240 volts, which provides faster recharging.

Since the charger system is built into our vehicles, it is possible to charge our vehicles using a variety of power outlets. For example, charging the Tesla Roadster battery pack to full capacity will
take approximately 7 hours using a 240 volt, 40 amp outlet that is widely available in many homes in the United States for electric appliances. A high power connection capable of 240 volts and 70 amps reduces this charging time to about 4.5 hours.
Such a connection can be installed in many homes with the assistance of a qualified electrician. For additional flexibility, the Tesla Roadster battery pack can also be charged with a 120 volt, 15 amp connection.







Using this lower power output, the Tesla Roadster battery pack can be charged to full capacity in about 42 hours. This flexibility in charging provides customers with additional mobility, while
also allowing them to conveniently charge the vehicle overnight at home.

We offer a high-voltage fast charge option for Model
S with the 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options that will enable the vehicle to charge from Tesla’s SuperCharger network that we anticipate may be available in the future.

Motor

Our powertrains currently use custom designed 3-phase induction motors. We believe we have made several important innovations in our motor design that minimize mass while still providing high power and
efficiency. Our motors incorporate a proprietary fabricated copper rotor design. Our motors also include optimized winding patterns that allow for easy manufacture and fit in as much copper as possible to reduce resistance and energy losses.

Gearbox

We have designed custom, single speed gearboxes that are manufactured in-house for the Tesla Roadster and Model S. These gearboxes combine low mass with high efficiency and can match both the speed and
torque capabilities of our AC induction motors. In comparison to a gasoline-powered vehicle, the elimination of gear changes contributes to the rapid acceleration characteristics of our vehicles.

Control Software

The performance and safety systems of our vehicles and their battery packs require sophisticated control software. There are numerous processors in our vehicles to control these functions, and we write
custom firmware for many of these processors. The flow of electricity between the battery pack and the motor must be tightly controlled in order to deliver the performance and behavior expected in the vehicle. For example, software algorithms enable
the vehicle to mimic the “creep” feeling which drivers expect from an internal combustion engine vehicle without having to apply pressure on the accelerator. Similar algorithms control traction, vehicle stability and the sustained
acceleration and regenerative braking of the vehicle. Drivers use the information systems in our vehicles to optimize performance and charging modes and times. Software also is used extensively to monitor the charge state of each of the cells of the
battery pack and to manage all of its safety systems. In addition to the vehicle control software, we are also developing software for the infotainment system of Model S.

Vehicle Design and Engineering

In addition to the design, development and
production of the powertrain, we have created significant in-house capabilities in the design and engineering of electric vehicles and electric vehicle components and systems. We design and engineer bodies, chassis, interiors, heating and cooling
and low voltage electrical systems in house and to a lesser extent in conjunction with our suppliers. Our team has core competencies in computer aided design and crash test simulations which we expect to reduce the product development time of new
models.

Several traditional automotive subsystems required substantial redesign and custom optimization to integrate with the
powertrain of an electric vehicle. For example, we redesigned the heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) system to integrate with the battery thermal management system and to operate without the energy generated from an internal combustion
engine. In addition, low voltage electric systems which power features such as the radio, power windows, and heated seats also needed to be designed specifically for use in an electric vehicle. We have developed expertise in integrating these
components with the high-voltage power source in the vehicle and in designing components that significantly reduce their load on the vehicle battery pack, thereby maximizing the available range of the vehicle.







Additionally, our team has expertise in lightweight materials, a very important
characteristic for electric vehicles given the impact of mass on range. The Tesla Roadster is built with an internally-designed carbon fiber body which provides a balance of strength and mass. We intend to build Model S with a lightweight aluminum
body and have been designing the body and chassis with a variety of materials and production methods that will help optimize the weight of the vehicle. We are developing an integrated electric vehicle manufacturing facility in Fremont, California,
the Tesla Factory, to assemble vehicles and manufacture components that are critical to our intellectual property and quality of Model S. Our engineering and manufacturing teams are working alongside one another in an effort to accelerate the
Model S development. We believe the co-location of our engineering and manufacturing teams will help accelerate the development of new products and allow for faster introduction of product changes.

Sales and Marketing

Company-Owned Sales

We market and sell cars directly to consumers. Until we opened our first store in Los Angeles, California in May 2008, all of our sales of the Tesla Roadster were conducted via the phone and internet, or
in-person at our headquarters and corporate events. Increasingly, sales are being made through our network of Tesla stores. Our Tesla stores are highly visible, premium outlets in major metropolitan markets some of which combine retail sales and
service. We intend to build separate sales and service locations in several markets. In April 2011, we opened our store at Santana Row in San Jose, California. The opening of our Santana Row store launched what we believe to be a new retail
experience designed to engage and inform potential customers about electric vehicles in general and the advantages of the Tesla experience in particular. We have opened five other locations modeled on this concept to complement a network of 20 sales
and service locations in North America, Europe and Asia. We plan to open additional stores and service centers during 2012, with a goal of establishing approximately 50 stores and additional service centers globally within the next several years in
connection with our Model S rollout.

We believe that by owning our own sales and service network we can offer a
compelling customer experience while achieving operating efficiencies and capturing sales and service revenues incumbent automobile manufacturers do not enjoy in the traditional franchised distribution and service model. Our customers deal directly
with our own Tesla-employed sales and service staff, creating what we believe is a differentiated buying experience from the buying experience consumers have with franchised automobile dealers and service centers. We believe we will also be able to
better control costs of inventory, manage warranty service and pricing, maintain and strengthen the Tesla brand, and obtain rapid customer feedback. Further, we believe that by owning our sales network we will avoid the conflict of interest in the
traditional dealership structure inherent to most incumbent automobile manufacturers where the sale of warranty parts and repairs by a dealer are a key source of revenue and profit for the dealer but often are an expense for the vehicle
manufacturer.

Reservations

We typically carry very limited inventory of our vehicles at our Tesla stores. While some customers purchase their vehicles from this inventory, most of our Tesla Roadster customers choose to customize
the appearance of their vehicle. Potential customers who purchase Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification are required to enter into a purchase agreement and pay a nonrefundable deposit, which is applied towards the purchase price of the
vehicle. For vehicles purchased directly from our showrooms, no deposit is required. For our 2011 model year Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification, our current purchase agreement requires the payment of an initial deposit, which varies based
on the country of purchase. For Model S and Model X, we require an initial refundable reservation payment of at least $5,000. We require nonrefundable deposits for Tesla Roadsters manufactured to specification. We also occasionally accept refundable
reservation payments if a customer is interested in purchasing a vehicle but not yet prepared to select the vehicle specifications. We currently require full payment of the purchase price of the vehicle only upon delivery of the vehicle to the







customer. Reservation payments and deposits are used by us to fund, in part, our working capital requirements and help us to align production with demand. For customers who have placed a
refundable reservation payment with us, the reservation payment becomes a nonrefundable deposit once the customer has selected the vehicle specifications and enters into a purchase agreement.

As of December 31, 2011, we had received over 8,000 customer reservations for Model S. As of December 31, 2011, we held
reservation payments for Model S sedans in an aggregate of $90.0 million and reservation payments for undelivered Tesla Roadsters in an aggregate of $1.8 million. All reservation payments for Model S are fully refundable until such time that a
customer enters into a purchase agreement.

Leasing

We began offering a leasing alternative to customers of our Tesla Roadster in the United States and Canada in 2010 through wholly owned
subsidiaries. Under this program, we have permitted qualifying customers in the United States to lease the Tesla Roadster for generally 36 months, after which time they have the option of either returning the vehicle to us or purchasing it for a
predetermined residual value. We are using a third party provider to administer the back office services, including billing and collections, of the leases.

Marketing

Our principal marketing goals are to:



•generate demand for our vehicles and drive leads to our sales teams;



•build long-term brand awareness and manage corporate reputation;



•manage our existing customer base to create loyalty and customer referrals; and



•enable customer input into the product development process.

As the first company to commercially produce a federally-compliant, fully electric vehicle that achieves market-leading range on a single charge, we have been able to generate significant media coverage
of our company and our vehicles, and we believe we will continue to do so. To date, media coverage and word of mouth have been the primary drivers of our sales leads and have helped us achieve sales without traditional advertising and at relatively
low marketing costs. We also use traditional means of advertising including product placement in a variety of media outlets and pay-per-click advertisements on websites and applications relevant to our target demographics.

Our marketing efforts include events where our vehicles are displayed and demonstrated. These events range from widely attended public
events, such as the Detroit, Los Angeles, and Frankfurt auto shows, to smaller events oriented towards sales, such as private drive events.

Company-Owned Charging Network, Service and Warranty

Tesla SuperCharger Network

During 2012, we plan to introduce a
network of 90 kWh fast charging equipment, each called a Tesla SuperCharger, throughout North America for fast charging of Model S. The Tesla SuperCharger is an industrial grade, high speed charger designed to replenish 50% of the battery pack in
about 30 minutes. Access to the SuperCharger network will be available to owners of Model S vehicles with the 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery pack options.

Service

Service of our electric vehicles takes place at most of our
Tesla stores. Going forward, we intend to build separate sales and service locations in several markets. Within countries that are covered by our warranty agreement, we offer at home service through our mobile service technicians known as the Tesla
Rangers. We







charge customers a fixed rate per mile for our Tesla Rangers technicians’ return trip from the location of the customer’s vehicle to the nearest Tesla store. For customers that are not
covered by our warranty agreement, we offer at home service at a higher cost.

Tesla owners can upload data from their vehicle
and send it to us on a memory card or via an on-board GSM system, allowing us to diagnose and remedy many problems before ever looking at the vehicle. When maintenance or service is required, a customer can schedule service by contacting one of our
regional Tesla stores. Our Tesla Rangers can perform an array of procedures at a remote location, from annual inspections and firmware upgrades to full replacement of a power electronics module and other mechanical and electrical components. If
service is more extensive and requires a vehicle lift, we can coordinate shipping of vehicles to and from the nearest Tesla store.

We believe that our company-owned service enables our technicians to work closely with our engineers and research and development teams in Silicon Valley to identify problems, find solutions, and
incorporate improvements faster than incumbent automobile manufacturers.

New Vehicle Limited Warranty Policy

We provide a three year or 36,000 miles New Vehicle Limited Warranty with every Tesla Roadster, which we extended to
four years or 50,000 miles for the purchasers of our 2008 Tesla Roadster. Customers have the opportunity to purchase an Extended Service Plan for the period after the end of the New Vehicle Limited Warranty to cover additional services for an
additional three years or 36,000 miles, whichever comes first. The New Vehicle Limited Warranty is similar to other vehicle manufacturer’s warranty programs and is intended to cover all parts and labor to repair defects in material or
workmanship in the body, chassis, suspension, interior, electronic systems, battery, powertrain and brake system. Exceptions to the New Vehicle Limited Warranty include wear items such as tires, brake pads and rotors, paint wear and tear, interior
wear and tear and battery performance. We intend to announce our new vehicle limited warranty for Model S in 2012.

Battery Replacement Option

While battery failure due to defects in material or workmanship is included in the Tesla Roadster New Vehicle Limited Warranty, battery performance, specifically its ability to store electricity over
time, is not covered in either the New Vehicle Limited Warranty or the Extended Service Plan. However, within three months of purchasing a vehicle, customers may purchase a one-time option to replace the battery pack at any time after the expiration
of the New Vehicle Limited Warranty but before the tenth anniversary of the purchase date of the vehicle. For customers that select this option, we agree to replace the original battery pack of the vehicle with a replacement battery pack which will
store at least 53 kilowatt-hours of usable energy. Charges in addition to the option purchase price apply if the customer exercises the battery pack replacement option prior to the seventh anniversary of the purchase date of the vehicle. The
customer is entitled to a partial refund of the option purchase price if the option is not elected by the eighth anniversary of the purchase date of the vehicle.

Manufacturing

Vehicle Assembly

We completed the production of Tesla Roadster gliders at Lotus Cars Limited in January 2012. We have a limited inventory of Roadsters for
sale primarily in Europe and Asia in 2012. As of December 31, 2011, we had delivered approximately 2,150 Roadsters to customers.

We have nearly completed the Tesla Factory, an integrated electric vehicle manufacturing facility in Fremont, California to manufacture components that are critical to our intellectual property and
quality of Model S, including stamping, plastics, body assembly, paint operations, battery pack manufacturing, final vehicle assembly and end-of-line testing. Certain major component systems will be purchased from suppliers. We







currently intend to target an annual production rate at this facility for Model S of approximately 20,000 cars per year. We believe that we will be able to increase the annual production capacity
of this plant beyond this amount through additional capital spending as well as by changing operating patterns and adding additional shifts.

Powertrain Component Manufacturing

In addition to developing our
Model S and future vehicle manufacturing capabilities at the Tesla Factory, we are currently designing, developing and manufacturing lithium-ion battery packs, electric motors, gearboxes and components both for our vehicles and for our original
equipment manufacturer customers. These activities occur at our electric powertrain manufacturing facility in Palo Alto, California and at the Tesla Factory.

Supply Chain

Model S uses over 2,000 purchased parts which we
source globally from over 200 suppliers, many of whom are currently our single source suppliers for these components. We have developed close relationships with several key suppliers particularly in the procurement of cells and certain electric
powertrain components. While we obtain components from multiple sources whenever possible, similar to other automobile manufacturers, many of the components used in our vehicles are purchased by us from a single source.

To date, we have not qualified alternative sources for most of the single sourced components used in our vehicles and we generally do not
maintain long-term agreements with our suppliers. While we believe that we may be able to establish alternate supply relationships and can obtain or engineer replacement components for our single source components, we may be unable to do so in the
short term or at all at prices or costs that are favorable to us. For example, while several sources of the battery cell we have selected for our battery packs are available, we have fully qualified only one supplier for these cells. Any disruption
in the supply of battery cells from such vendor could temporarily disrupt production of the vehicles until such time as a different supplier is fully qualified and there can be no assurance that we would be able to successfully retain alternative
suppliers on a timely basis. Moreover, battery cell manufactures may not supply us at reasonable prices or on reasonable terms or may choose to refuse to supply electric vehicle manufacturers to the extent they determine that the vehicles are not
sufficiently safe.

We use various raw materials in our business including aluminum, steel, nickel and copper. The prices for
these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions and global demand for these materials. We believe that we have adequate supplies or sources of availability of the raw materials necessary to meet our manufacturing and supply
requirements. There are always risks and uncertainties, however, with respect to the supply of raw materials that could impact their availability in sufficient quantities or reasonable prices to meet our needs.

Quality Control

Our quality control efforts are divided between product quality and supplier quality, both of which are focused on designing and producing products and processes with high levels of reliability. Our
product quality engineers work with our engineering team and our suppliers to help ensure that the product designs meet functional specifications and durability requirements. Our supplier quality engineers work with our suppliers to ensure that
their processes and systems are capable of delivering the parts we need at the required quality level, on time, and on budget. Our quality systems engineers create and manage our systems, such as configuration management and corrective action
systems, to help ensure product developers, supplier chain managers, and production controllers have the product information they need.

Customers and Selected Relationships

We currently sell our cars primarily to individual customers. We have strategic or commercial relationships with Daimler, Toyota, and Panasonic. We intend to expand our business by developing and selling
additional powertrain components and systems to Daimler, Toyota and other third party OEMs, and have secured a $101.2 million loan under our DOE Loan Facility to fund the infrastructure these activities.







Daimler AG

Beginning in 2008, we commenced efforts on a powertrain development arrangement with Daimler. In May 2009, we entered into a development
agreement with Daimler under which we have performed specified research and development services for the development of a battery pack and charger for Daimler’s Smart fortwo electric drive. All development work related to the development
agreement had been completed as of December 31, 2009. Through December 2011, we had sold over 2,100 battery packs and chargers for the Smart fortwo electric drive program. In the first quarter of 2010, Daimler engaged us to assist with the
development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of its A-Class electric vehicles to be introduced in Europe during 2011. A formal agreement for this arrangement was entered into with Daimler in May 2010. In October 2010,
we completed the development of the A-Class battery pack and charger and began shipping production parts in February 2011. Through December 2011, we sold over 500 battery packs and chargers for the A-Class EV program. In the first quarter of 2010,
we completed the development and sale of modular battery packs for electric delivery vans for Freightliner, an affiliate of Daimler. Freightliner plans to use these electric vans in a limited number of customer trials.

In February 2012, we received an initial purchase order for the development of a full electric powertrain system for an additional
Mercedes Benz vehicle from Daimler. We are negotiating the agreement for production parts for this project; however, no agreement has yet been executed and there are no assurances that we will be able to enter into any such agreement.

In addition to the agreements described above, we have entered into an exclusivity and intellectual property agreement (EIP Agreement)
with Daimler North America Corporation (DNAC), an affiliate of Daimler, in which we agreed to begin negotiating in good faith to enter into further agreements within certain strategic cooperation areas, including technology collaboration in various
electric powertrain areas, automotive engineering support, joint electric vehicle development efforts and access to component parts for Tesla designed products. Under this EIP Agreement, we agreed that, until November 11, 2009, we would not
negotiate or enter into any agreements with other parties that would be competitive with the arrangements contemplated for these strategic cooperation areas, unless the results of such arrangement would be marketed solely under the Tesla brand. As
of that date, we had not executed any further agreements with Daimler in the areas of strategic cooperation.

The EIP
Agreement provides that ending July 2013, if the company receives an offer from a strategic competitor of Daimler to enter into an agreement for development of a non-Tesla branded vehicle or an integrated electric powertrain system, DNAC would be
given the right of first refusal to enter into such agreement with the company instead of, and on the same terms offered by, the third party.

The EIP Agreement also provides that if we execute a strategic cooperation agreement with DNAC to jointly engineer an electric vehicle, then additional exclusivities would apply until July 2013, provided
a minimum annual volume of sales is achieved. The EIP Agreement provides that none of the restrictions set out in that agreement, or in any strategic agreement, would limit us from developing technology with any third party for use in a
Tesla-branded product or service or related to the Tesla Roadster or Model S, engaging in any transaction with a company that is not a Daimler competitor, or supplying components for electric powertrains that are designed by third parties.

The EIP Agreement also provides that if the parties enter into the strategic agreements or further agreements, those
agreements will allocate intellectual property rights according to certain principles outlined in the EIP Agreement. In addition, until July 2013, before licensing intellectual property generated outside the scope of any strategic cooperation area
to a Daimler competitor, we would first have to offer DNAC the right to license the intellectual property on a non-exclusive, royalty-bearing basis, or on an exclusive basis in the automotive field; and if DNAC requests the latter, we must negotiate
such a license in good faith. If no agreement is reached, however, we would be free to license the technology to the Daimler competitor, and DNAC could take a non-exclusive license. Both we and Daimler have the right to terminate the EIP Agreement







in the event the other party undergoes, or executes an agreement to undergo, a change of control. Any strategic cooperation agreements entered into between us and Daimler prior to termination
will not be affected by such termination.

To date, with the exception of the development agreement for the Smart fortwo
electric drive and the agreement for the development and production of a battery pack and charger for a pilot fleet of Daimler’s A-Class electric vehicles, the strategic agreements described in the EIP Agreement have not been entered into, and
there can be no assurance that the parties will ever enter into such agreements. Even if we were to enter into such agreements, the parties may negotiate and agree to terms that are different to those set forth in the EIP Agreement and outlined
above. Such different or new terms may be more or less favorable to us.

In addition to these agreements, Blackstar lnvestco
LLC (Blackstar), an affiliate of Daimler, beneficially owned 8,113,215 shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2011. Blackstar’s representative, Dr. Herbert Kohler, serves as a member of our Board of Directors.

Toyota Motor Corporation

In May 2010, we and Toyota announced our intention to cooperate on the development of electric vehicles, and for us to receive Toyota’s support with sourcing parts and production and engineering
expertise for Model S. In July 2010, we entered into an early phase agreement to develop an electric powertrain for the Toyota RAV4. With an aim by Toyota to market the electric vehicle in the United States in 2012, prototypes would be made by
combining the Toyota RAV4 model with a Tesla electric powertrain. We began developing and delivering prototypes to Toyota for evaluation in September 2010.

In October 2010, we entered into a contract services agreement with Toyota for the development of a validated powertrain system, including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and
associated software, which will be integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. Pursuant to our agreements, Toyota will pay us up to $69 million for the anticipated development services to be provided by us over the expected term
of our performance. We expect to complete all of the development services for the RAV4 EV in the first quarter of 2012.

Additionally, in July 2011, we entered into an agreement to supply Toyota with electric powertrain system for the RAV4 EV. We plan to
begin delivery of these systems to Toyota for installation into the Toyota RAV4 EV in the first half of 2012. Our production activities under this program are expected to continue through 2014.

In addition to these agreements, in July 2010, we sold 2,941,176 shares of our common stock to Toyota at our IPO price of $17.00 per
share.

Panasonic

Panasonic is a supplier of battery cells for our battery packs. In January 2010, we announced that we were collaborating with Panasonic on the development of next-generation electric vehicle cells based
on the 18650 form factor and nickel-based lithium ion chemistry. In October 2011, we finalized a supply agreement for these battery cells. The agreement supplies us with battery cells to build more than 80,000 vehicles over the next four years.

In November 2010, we sold 1,418,573 shares of our common stock to an entity affiliated with Panasonic Corporation at a price
of $21.15 per share, which was the average of the trading highs and lows of our common stock from October 25 to October 29, 2010.







Governmental Programs, Incentives and Regulations

United States Department of Energy Loans

Through December 31, 2011, we have received draw downs under the DOE Loan Facility for an aggregate of $276.3 million, with interest rates ranging from 1.0% to 3.4%, for eligible project costs under
both projects that we have incurred from December 15, 2008 through November 30, 2011. In February 2012, we received additional loans under the DOE Loan Facility for $14.4 million at interest rates ranging from 0.9% to 1.4%.

In connection with the DOE Loan Facility, we have also issued the DOE a warrant to purchase up to 3,085,011 shares of our common stock at
an exercise price of $7.54 per share and a warrant to purchase up to 5,100 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $8.94 per share. Beginning on December 15, 2018 and until December 14, 2022, the shares subject to purchase under
these warrants will become exercisable in quarterly amounts depending on the average outstanding balance of the loan during the prior quarter. These warrants may be exercised until December 15, 2023. If we prepay the DOE Loan Facility in full
prior to December 15, 2018, no shares will be exercisable under these warrants, except in the case of an event of default, which could accelerate the vesting.

For more information on the DOE Loan Facility, see Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.

California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing Authority Tax Incentives

In December 2009, we finalized an arrangement with the California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation
Financing Authority (CAEATFA) that will result in an exemption from California state sales and use taxes for up to $320 million of manufacturing equipment. To the extent all of this equipment is purchased and would otherwise be subject to
California state sales and use tax, we believe this incentive would result in tax savings by us of up to approximately $31 million over a three year period starting in December 2009. The equipment purchases may be used only for three purposes:
(i) to establish our production facility for Model S in California, (ii) to upgrade our Palo Alto powertrain production facility, and (iii) to expand our current Tesla Roadster assembly operations at our Menlo Park facility. As
of December 31, 2011, we have received the tax exemption for approximately $97.9 million in qualifying purchases.

In
January 2012, we finalized an additional agreement with CAEATFA that will result in an exemption from California state sales and use taxes for up to $292 million of manufacturing equipment. To the extent all of this equipment is purchased and
would otherwise be subject to California state sales and use tax, we believe this







incentive would result in tax savings by us of up to approximately $24 million over a three year period starting in December 2011. The equipment purchases may be used only for two purposes:
(i) to develop the Model X crossover vehicle and its production capacity in California and, (ii) to further upgrade our powertrain production facilities in California. As of January 31, 2012, we had not begun to submit qualifying
equipment for this exemption.

California Air Resources Board’s Zero Emissions Vehicle Program

In connection with the delivery and placement into service of our zero emission vehicles in a number of states, we have earned and will
continue to earn tradable credits that can be sold. Under California’s Low-Emission Vehicle Regulations, and similar laws in other states, vehicle manufacturers are required to ensure that a portion of the vehicles delivered for sale in that
state during each model year are zero emission vehicles. Currently, the states of Arizona, California, Connecticut, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island and Vermont have such laws in effect. These
laws provide that a manufacturer of zero emission vehicles may earn credits, referred to as ZEV credits, and may sell excess credits to other manufacturers who apply such credits to comply with these regulatory requirements. As a manufacturer solely
of zero emission vehicles, we earn ZEV credits on each vehicle sold in such states and have entered into agreements with other automobile manufacturers to sell the ZEV credits that we earn. Recently, California passed amendments to the ZEV mandate
that would require all large volume manufacturers (those manufacturers selling 20,000 or more vehicles in California) to increase the number of zero emission vehicles sold. Under the new requirements, by 2025 up to 15.4% of each large volume
manufacturers’ fleet must be made of zero emission vehicles.

We have entered into three contracts for the sale of ZEV
credits with three separate automotive manufacturers. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we earned revenue from the sale of ZEV credits of $2.7 million, $2.8 million and $8.2 million, respectively. Our current
agreement with an automotive manufacturer provides for the sale of a partial quantity of the ZEV credits that we earn from the sale of vehicles that we manufacture in 2012, with an option for additional sales of uncommitted credits in future model
years. We have also entered into a third contract with another automotive manufacturer to sell ZEV credits earned from the sale of Model S vehicles in 2012. To the extent we have additional ZEV credits available for sale, we may enter into new
agreements with automotive manufacturers to sell such credits.

Regulation—Vehicle Safety and Testing

Our vehicles are subject to, and the Tesla Roadster complies with, or is exempt from, numerous regulatory requirements
established by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), including all applicable United States federal motor vehicle safety standards (FMVSS). As a manufacturer, we must self-certify that a vehicle meets or otherwise obtain an
exemption from all applicable FMVSSs, as well as the NHTSA bumper standard, before the vehicle can be imported into or sold in the United States. There are numerous FMVSSs that apply to our vehicles. Examples of these requirements include:



•Crash-worthiness requirements—including applicable and appropriate level of vehicle structure and occupant protection in frontal, side and
interior impacts including through use of equipment such as seat belts and airbags which must satisfy applicable requirements;



•Crash avoidance requirements—including appropriate steering, braking and equipment requirements, such as, headlamps, tail lamps, and other
required lamps, all of which must conform to various photometric and performance requirements;



•Electric vehicle requirements—limitations on electrolyte spillage, battery retention, and avoidance of electric shock following specified
crash tests;







•Windshield defrosting and defogging—defined zones of the windshield must be cleared within a specified timeframe; and



•Rearview mirror requirements—rearward areas that must be visible to the driver via the mirrors.

As a small volume manufacturer that produces only electric vehicles, we have applied for, and have been granted, exemptions from certain
advanced air bag and electronic stability control requirements, which apply to Tesla Roadsters manufactured through November 7, 2011. Under U.S. law, we are required to certify compliance with, or obtain exemption from all applicable federal
motor vehicle safety standards and we have done so with respect to each vehicle we have offered for sale in the United States. Based on testing, engineering analysis, and other information, we have certified that the Tesla Roadster complies with, or
is exempt from all applicable NHTSA standards by affixing a certification label to each Tesla Roadster sold.

We are also
required to comply with other requirements of federal laws administered by NHTSA, including the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, consumer information labeling requirements, early warning reporting requirements regarding warranty claims,
field reports, death and injury reports and foreign recalls, and owner’s manual requirements.

The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) requires us to calculate and display the range of our electric vehicles on a label we affix to the vehicle’s window. The FTC specifies that we follow testing
requirements set forth by the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) which further requires that we test using the United States EPA’s combined city and highway testing cycles. In July 2011, the EPA announced new energy efficiency testing
methodologies for electric vehicles. These new requirements, when applied to our vehicles, could reduce the advertised range of our vehicles by up to 30% as compared to methodologies we have used to estimate the range of the vehicles at a steady
speed of 55 miles per hour. Shortly after the EPA issued their new requirements, the FTC issued a proposed rule that would harmonize current FTC label requirements with the EPA’s new fuel economy label requirements. If finalized, changes to the
testing cycles previously utilized could impair our ability to deliver Model S with the previously advertised range based on the steady speed of 55 miles per hour range methodology, which could result in the cancellation of a number of the over
8,000 reservations that have been placed for Model S as of December 31, 2011. Although the real life customer experience of the range of our electric vehicles will not change due to the changes in the FTC or EPA standards, the reduction in the
advertised range could negatively impact our sales and harm our business.







The Automobile Information and Disclosure Act requires manufacturers of motor vehicles to
disclose certain information regarding the manufacturer’s suggested retail price, optional equipment and pricing. In addition, the Act allows inclusion of city and highway fuel economy ratings, as determined by EPA, as well as crash test
ratings as determined by NHTSA if such tests are conducted.

Regulation—EPA Emissions & Certificate of
Conformity

The Clean Air Act requires that we obtain a Certificate of Conformity issued by the EPA and a California
Executive Order issued by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) with respect to emissions for our vehicles, including Model S. The Certificate of Conformity is required for vehicles sold in states covered by the Clean Air Act’s standards
and both the Certificate of Conformity and the Executive Order is required for vehicles sold in states that have sought and received a waiver from the EPA to utilize California standards. The California standards for emissions control for certain
regulated pollutants for new vehicles and engines sold in California are set by CARB. States that have adopted the California standards as approved by EPA also recognize the Executive Order for sales of vehicles.

Regulation—Battery Safety and Testing

Our battery pack conforms with mandatory regulations that govern transport of “dangerous goods” that may present a risk in transportation, which includes lithium-ion batteries. The governing
regulations, which are issued by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) are based on the UN Recommendations on the Safe Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations, and related UN Manual Tests and Criteria. The
regulations vary by mode of transportation when these items are shipped such as by ocean vessel, rail, truck, or by air.

We
have completed the applicable transportation tests for our prototype and production battery packs demonstrating our compliance with the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, including:



•Altitude simulation—simulating air transport;



•Thermal cycling—assessing cell and battery seal integrity;



•Vibration—simulating vibration during transport;



•Shock—simulating possible impacts during transport; and



•External short circuit—simulating an external short circuit.

We also subject our battery packs to the appropriate tests specified in the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) J2464 and J2929 which
include further tests such as immersion, humidity, and exposure to fire.

We use lithium metal oxide cells in our battery
packs. The cells do not contain any lead, mercury, cadmium, or other hazardous materials, heavy metals, or any toxic materials. Our battery packs include certain packaging materials which contain trace amounts of various hazardous chemicals whose
use, storage and disposal is regulated under federal law. We currently have an agreement with a third party battery recycling company to recycle our battery packs. If a customer wishes to dispose of a battery pack from one of our vehicles, we
anticipate accepting the depleted battery from the customer without any additional charge.

Automobile Manufacturer and
Dealer Regulation

State law regulates the manufacture, distribution and sale of automobiles, and generally requires
motor vehicle manufacturers and dealers to be licensed. To the extent possible, we plan to secure dealer licenses (or the equivalent of a dealer license) and engage in activities as a motor vehicle dealer in so far as we are permitted to do so as we
open additional Tesla stores. Some states do not permit automobile manufacturers to be licensed as







dealers or to act in the capacity of a dealer. To sell vehicles to residents of states where we are not licensed as a dealer, to the extent permitted by local law, both the actual sale and all
activities related to the sale would generally have to occur out of state. In this scenario, it is possible that activities related to marketing, advertising, taking orders, taking reservations and reservation payments, and delivering vehicles could
be viewed by a state as conducting unlicensed activities in the state or otherwise violating the state’s motor vehicle industry laws. Regulators in these states may require us to hold and meet the requirements of appropriate dealer or other
licenses and, in states in which manufacturers are prohibited from acting as dealers, may otherwise prohibit or impact our planned activities.

In jurisdictions where we do not have a Tesla store, a customer may try to purchase our vehicles over the internet. However, some states, such as Kansas, have laws providing that a manufacturer cannot
deliver a vehicle to a resident of such state except through a dealer licensed to do business in that state which may be interpreted to require us to open a store in the state of Kansas in order to sell vehicles to Kansas residents. Such laws may be
interpreted to require us to open a store in such state before we sell vehicles to residents of such states. In some states where we have opened a viewing “gallery” that is not a full retail location, it is possible that a state regulator
could take the position that activities at our gallery constitute an unlicensed motor vehicle dealership and thereby violates applicable manufacturer-dealer laws. Although we would prefer that a state regulator address any concerns by discussing
such concerns with us and requesting voluntary compliance, a state could also take action against us, including levying fines or requiring that we refrain from certain activities. In addition, some states have requirements that service facilities be
available with respect to vehicles sold in the state, which may be interpreted to also require that service facilities be available with respect to vehicles sold over the internet to residents of the state thereby limiting our ability to sell
vehicles in states where we do not maintain service facilities.

The foregoing examples of state laws governing the sale of
motor vehicles are just some of the regulations we will face as we sell our vehicles. In many states, the application of state motor vehicle laws to our specific sales model is largely without precedent, particularly with respect to sales over the
internet, and would be determined by a fact specific analysis of numerous factors, including whether we have a physical presence or employees in the applicable state, whether we advertise or conduct other activities in the applicable state, how the
sale transaction is structured, the volume of sales into the state, and whether the state in question prohibits manufacturers from acting as dealers. As a result of the fact specific and untested nature of these issues, and the fact that applying
these laws intended for the traditional automobile distribution model to our sales model allows for some interpretation and discretion by the regulators, state legal prohibitions may prevent us from selling to consumers in such state.

California laws, and potentially the laws of other states, restrict the ability of licensed dealers to advertise or take deposits for
vehicles before they are available. In November 2007, we became aware that the New Motor Vehicle Board of the California Department of Transportation has considered whether our reservation and advertising policies comply with these laws. To date, we
have not received any communications on this topic from the New Motor Vehicle Board or the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) which has the power to enforce these laws. There can be no assurance that the DMV will not take the position that our
vehicle reservation or advertising practices violate the law. We expect that if the DMV determines that we may have violated the law, it would initially discuss its concerns with us and request voluntary compliance. If we are ultimately found to be
in violation of California law, we might be precluded from taking reservation payments, and the DMV could take other actions against us, including levying fines and requiring us to refund reservation payments. Resolution of any inquiry may also
involve restructuring certain aspects of the reservation program. The DMV also has the power to suspend licenses to manufacture and sell vehicles in California, following a hearing on the merits, which it has typically exercised only in cases of
significant or repeat violations and/or a refusal to comply with DMV directions.

Certain states may have specific laws which
apply to dealers, or manufacturers selling directly to consumers, or both. For example, the state of Washington requires that reservation payments or other payment







received from residents in the state of Washington must be placed in a segregated account until delivery of the vehicle, which account must be unencumbered by any liens from creditors of the
dealer and may not be used by the dealer. Consequently, we established a segregated account for reservation payments in the state of Washington in January 2010. There can be no assurance that other state or foreign jurisdictions will not require
similar segregation of reservation payment received from customers. Our inability to access these funds for working capital purposes could harm our liquidity.

Furthermore, while we have performed an analysis of the principal laws in the European Union relating to our distribution model and believe we comply with such laws, we have not performed a complete
analysis in all foreign jurisdictions in which we may sell vehicles. Accordingly, there may be laws in jurisdictions we have not yet entered or laws we are unaware of in jurisdictions we have entered that may restrict our vehicle reservation
practices or other business practices. Even for those jurisdictions we have analyzed, the laws in this area can be complex, difficult to interpret and may change over time.

In addition to licensing laws, specific laws and regulations in each of the states (and their interpretation by regulators) may limit or determine how we sell, market, advertise, and otherwise solicit
sales, take orders, take reservations and reservation payments, deliver, and service vehicles for consumers and engage in other activities in that state. While we have performed an analysis of laws in certain jurisdictions in which we have Tesla
stores, we have not performed a complete analysis in all jurisdictions in which we may sell vehicles. Accordingly, there may be laws in jurisdictions we have not yet entered that may restrict our vehicle reservation practices or other business
practices.

Competition

Competition in the automotive industry is intense and evolving. We believe the impact of new regulatory requirements for occupant safety and vehicle emissions, technological advances in powertrain and
consumer electronics components, and shifting customer needs and expectations are causing the industry to evolve in the direction of electric-based vehicles. We believe the primary competitive factors in our markets include but are not limited to:



•technological innovation;



•product quality and safety;



•service options;



•product performance;



•design and styling;



•product price; and



•manufacturing efficiency.

We believe that our vehicles compete in the market both based on their traditional segment classification as well as based on their propulsion technology. Within the electric-based vehicle segment, there
are three primary means of powertrain electrification which will differentiate various competitors in this market:



•Electric Vehiclesare vehicles powered completely by a single on-board energy storage system (battery pack or fuel cell) which is refueled
directly from an electricity source. Both the Tesla Roadster and Model S are examples of electric vehicles.



•Plug-in Hybrid Vehiclesare vehicles powered by both a battery pack with an electric motor and an internal combustion engine which can be
refueled both with traditional petroleum fuels for the engine and electricity for the battery pack. The internal combustion engine can either work in parallel with the







electric motor to power the wheels, such as in a parallel plug-in hybrid vehicle, or be used only to recharge the battery, such as in a series plug-in hybrid vehicle like the Chevrolet Volt.



•Hybrid Electric Vehiclesare vehicles powered by both a battery pack with an electric motor and an internal combustion engine but which can only
be refueled with traditional petroleum fuels as the battery pack is charged via regenerative braking, such as used in a hybrid electric vehicle like the Toyota Prius.

The worldwide automotive market, particularly for alternative fuel vehicles, is highly competitive today and we expect it will become
even more so in the future. Prior to the introduction of the Nissan Leaf in December 2010, no mass produced performance highway-capable electric vehicles were being sold in the United States. In Japan, Mitsubishi has been selling its electric iMiEV
since April 2010. We expect additional competitors to enter the United States and Europe within the next several years, and as they do so, we expect that we will experience significant competition. With respect to our Tesla Roadster, we currently
face strong competition from established automobile manufacturers, including manufacturers of high-performance vehicles, such as Porsche and Ferrari. In addition, upon the launch of our Model S sedan, we will face competition from existing and
future automobile manufacturers in the extremely competitive premium sedan market, including Audi, BMW, Lexus and Mercedes.

Many established and new automobile manufacturers have entered or have announced plans to enter the alternative fuel vehicle market. For
example, Nissan introduced the Nissan Leaf, a fully electric vehicle in December 2010 and Ford has announced that it plans to introduce the pure electric Ford Focus and plug-in hybrid Ford C-Max in 2012. In addition, several manufacturers, including
General Motors, Toyota, Ford, and Honda are each selling hybrid vehicles, and certain of these manufacturers have announced plug-in versions of their hybrid vehicles. For example, in December 2010, General Motors introduced the Chevrolet Volt, which
is a plug-in hybrid vehicle that operates purely on electric power for a limited number of miles, at which time an internal combustion engine engages to recharge the battery.

Moreover, it has been reported that BMW, Daimler, Lexus, Audi, Renault and Volkswagen are also developing electric vehicles. Several new start-ups have also announced plans to enter the market for
performance electric vehicles, although none of these have yet come to market. Finally, electric vehicles have already been brought to market in China and other foreign countries and we expect a number of those manufacturers to enter the United
States market as well.

Most of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical,
manufacturing, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the design, development, manufacturing, distribution, promotion, sale and support of their products. Virtually all of our competitors have more
extensive customer bases and broader customer and industry relationships than we do. In addition, almost all of these companies have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. Our competitors may be in a stronger position to
respond quickly to new technologies and may be able to design, develop, market and sell their products more effectively. We believe our exclusive focus on electric vehicles and electric vehicle components, as well as our history of vehicle
development and production, are the basis on which we can compete in the global automotive market in spite of the challenges posed by our competition; however, we have a limited history of operations.

Intellectual Property

Our success depends, at least in part, on our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. To accomplish this, we
rely on a combination of patents, patent applications, trade secrets, including know-how, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements, copyright laws, trademarks, intellectual property licenses and other contractual rights to establish and
protect our proprietary rights in our technology. As of December 31, 2011, we had 59 issued patents and more than 230 pending patent applications with the United States Patent and







Trademark Office and internationally in a broad range of areas. Our issued patents start expiring in 2026. We intend to continue to file additional patent applications with respect to our
technology. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Even if granted, there can be no assurance that these pending
patent applications will provide us with protection.

Seasonality

Sales of the Tesla Roadster have fluctuated on a seasonal basis with increased sales during the spring and summer months in our second and
third fiscal quarters relative to our fourth and first fiscal quarters. We note that, in general, automotive sales tend to decline over the winter season and we anticipate that our sales of Model S, Model X and other electric vehicles we introduce
in the future may have similar seasonality. However, our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to judge the exact nature or extent of the seasonality of our business. We do not expect our powertrain component sales and development
services revenue to be impacted to a significant extent by seasonality.

Segment Information

We have determined that we operate as one reporting segment, which is the design, development, manufacturing and sales of electric
vehicles and electric powertrain components. For information regarding financial data by geographic areas, see Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we had 1,417 full-time employees consisting of 452 in manufacturing, 315 in powertrain research and development, 276 in sales, marketing and service, 216 in vehicle design
and engineering, and 158 in general and administration. Of all of our employees, 1,088 are located in our Northern California offices (including the Tesla Factory), 81 are located at our Los Angeles facility and 48 are located at our United Kingdom
offices. The other employees are located in our domestic sales and service centers and other international locations. None of our employees are currently represented by labor unions or are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with respect to
their employment. To date, we have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good.

Available Information

We file or furnish periodic reports and amendments thereto, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
and Current Reports on Form 8-K; proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports, amendments, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the
SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports,
proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Our reports, amendments thereto, proxy statements and other information are also made available, free of charge, on our investor relations website atir.teslamotors.comas soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such information with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







