ITEM  1.BUSINESS

Overview

We design, develop, manufacture and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles, advanced electric vehicle powertrain components and stationary energy storage systems. We have established our own network of sales and service centers and Supercharger stations globally to accelerate the widespread adoption of electric vehicles.  We believe our vehicles, electric vehicle engineering expertise, and business model differentiates us from incumbent automobile manufacturers.

We are currently producing and selling our second vehicle, the Model S sedan.  Model S is a four door, five-passenger premium sedan that offers exceptional performance, functionality and attractive styling. Model S inherited many of the electric powertrain innovations we introduced with our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster.  We commenced deliveries of Model S in June 2012 and as of December 31, 2014 we have delivered almost 57,000 Model S vehicles worldwide. Since its launch, Model S has won several awards, including the prestigiousMotor TrendCar of the Year for 2013.  Surveys by Consumer Reports gave Model S the highest customer satisfaction score of any car in the world in 2013 and gave Tesla Service the best overall satisfaction rating in the entire automotive industry in 2015. Model S also earned the highest safety rating in the United States by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.  We have continued to improve Model S by introducing performance, all-wheel drive dual motor, autopilot options, and free over-the-air software updates.

We anticipate commencing customer shipments of our third vehicle, the Model X crossover, in the third quarter of 2015.This unique vehicle has been designed to fill the niche between the roominess of a minivan and the style of an SUV, while having high performance features such as our all-wheel drive dual motor system and fast 0 to 60 miles per hour acceleration.After the Model X, our goal is to introduce the Model 3, a lower priced sedan designed for the mass market, in 2017.

The commercial production of fully electric vehicles that meets consumers’ range and performance expectations requires substantial design, engineering, and integration work on almost every system of our vehicles.  Our design and vehicle engineering capabilities, combined with the technical advancements of our powertrain system, have enabled us to design and develop electric vehicles that we believe overcome the design, styling, and performance issues that have historically limited broad consumer adoption of electric vehicles. As a result, we believe our customers enjoy several benefits, including:

·Long Range and Recharging Flexibility.Our vehicles offer ranges that are over double the range of any other commercially available electric vehicle. In addition, our vehicles incorporate our proprietary on-board charging system, permitting recharging from almost any available electrical outlet. Model S also offers fast charging capability from our Supercharger network. We believe the long-range and charging flexibility of our vehicles will help reduce consumer anxiety over range, alleviate the need for expensive, large-scale charging infrastructure, and differentiate our vehicles as compared to those of our competitors.

·Energy Efficiency and Cost of Ownership.We believe our vehicles offer consumers an attractive cost of ownership when compared to similar internal combustion engine or hybrid electric vehicles. Using only an electric powertrain enables us to create a lighter, more energy efficient vehicle that is mechanically simpler than currently available hybrid or internal combustion engine vehicles. We currently estimate that the cost to fuel our vehicles is approximately one-fourth that of comparable internal combustion vehicles in the United States, and even less internationally where gasoline prices are typically higher. We also expect our electric vehicles will have lower relative maintenance costs than hybrid, plug-in hybrid, or internal combustion engine vehicles due to fewer moving parts and the absence of certain components, including oil, oil filters, spark plugs and engine valves. Additionally, government incentives that are currently available can reduce the cost of ownership even further.

·High-Performance Without Compromised Design or Functionality.We believe our vehicles deliver unparalleled driving experiences with instantaneous and sustained acceleration through an extended range of speed. In addition, our Model S seats five adults, provides best in class storage in the trunk and hood while offering design and performance comparable to, or better than, other premium sedans.

We sell our vehicles through our own sales and service network which we are continuing to grow globally.We believe the benefits we receive from distribution ownership will enable us to improve the speed of product development and improve the capital efficiency of our business.We are also continuing to build our network of Superchargers in the United States, Europe and Asia to provide properly equipped Model S vehicle owners as well as future Tesla vehicle owners with fast and free charging to enable convenient long distance travel.

In addition to developing our own vehicles, we have developed and currently sell and service full electric powertrain systems and components to other automobile manufacturers.  We also produce and sell stationary energy storage products for use in homes, commercial sites, and utilities. The applications for these battery systems include backup power, peak demand reduction, demand response, and wholesale electric market services.






We manufacture our products primarily at our facilities in Fremont, California, Lathrop, California and Tilburg, Netherlands.We are developing the Tesla Gigafactory, a facility where we intend to work together with our suppliers to integrate battery precursor material, cell, module and battery pack production at a site near Reno, Nevada.  We plan to use the battery packs manufactured at the Gigafactory for our vehicles, starting initially for Model S and Model X in 2016, and later for our Model 3 vehicle, as well as for stationary storage applications.

Our Vehicles and Products

We currently design, develop, manufacture and sell fully electric vehicles and electric powertrain components. We are currently selling primarily the Model S.

Model S

Model S is a fully electric, four-door, five-adult passenger sedan that offers compelling range and performance with zero tailpipe emissions. We began customer deliveries in June 2012. As of December 31, 2014, we had delivered almost 57,000 Model S vehicles.

Model S offers a range on a single charge of up to 265 miles as determined using the United States EPA’s combined two-cycle city/highway test. To complement this range, we also offer the capability to fast charge Model S at our Supercharger facilities. In addition, we designed Model S to incorporate a modular battery pack in the floor of the vehicle, enabling it to be rapidly swapped out at certain of our service centers and specialized commercial battery exchange facilities that we anticipate may be available in the future.

The 60 kWh and 85 kWh battery pack versions of Model S have an effective base price of $62,400, and $72,400, respectively, in the United States, assuming and after giving effect to the continuation of a United States federal tax credit of $7,500 for the purchase of alternative fuel vehicles. We offer performance and all-wheel drive dual motor system options with our 85 kWh Model S. The performance version of our All-Wheel Drive Dual Motor Model S accelerates from 0 to 60 miles per hour in 3.2 seconds, making it the quickest sedan in the world according toMotor Trendmagazine.

We have designed Model S to provide a lower cost of ownership as compared to other vehicles in its class. We consider the purchase price, cost of fuel and the cost of maintenance over a six year ownership period in this calculation. We assume comparable residual values, warranties, insurance costs and promotions and assume that currently available consumer incentives are still available at the time of a Model S purchase. In addition to the competitive pricing of Model S relative to other premium vehicles, we estimate that customers of electric vehicles will enjoy lower fuel costs. For example, assuming an average of 15,000 miles driven per year, an average electricity cost of 12.1 cents per kilowatt-hour and an average gasoline price of $2.83 per gallon over the full ownership of the vehicle which were the average electricity cost and premium gasoline price in the United States, respectively, for December 2014, and based on our estimate of the energy efficiency of Model S, we estimate that our Model S could save approximately $1,600 per year less in fuel costs than a comparable premium internal combustion engine sedan. In international markets, where gasoline prices can be 2-3 times those of the United States, the savings are greater.

We have designed Model S with an adaptable platform architecture and common electric powertrain that we intend to leverage to create future electric vehicle models, including our Model X. In particular, by designing our electric powertrain within the chassis to accommodate different vehicle body styles, we believe that we can save significant time in future vehicle development. In addition, we believe our strategy of using currently available battery cells will enable us to leverage improvements in cell chemistries and rapidly introduce planned vehicles with different range options.






Model X

Our Model X crossover is the first vehicle we intend to develop by leveraging the Model S platform. This unique vehicle has been designed to offer the space and functionality of a sport utility vehicle while having high performance features such as our fully electric, all-wheel drive dual motor system. Model X will seat seven adults and incorporate a unique falcon wing door system for superior access to the second and third seating rows. We anticipate that the pricing of Model X will be similar to a comparably equipped Model S.  We currently intend to begin customer deliveries of Model X in the third quarter of 2015. After its initial launch in the United States, Model X will be sold in all the markets where Model S is available including in Asia and Europe.

Model 3

We have also publicly announced our intent to develop a third generation electric vehicle, called Model 3, to be produced at the Tesla Factory. We intend to offer this vehicle at a lower price point and expect to produce it at higher volumes than our Model S. We expect that this vehicle will be introduced in 2017.

The Tesla Roadster

Our first vehicle, the Tesla Roadster, is the first high-performance electric sports car. It can accelerate from zero to 60 miles per hour in as little as 3.7 seconds and has a maximum speed of approximately 120 miles per hour. The Tesla Roadster also has a range of 245 miles on a single charge, as determined using the United States EPA’s combined two-cycle city/highway test. We have sold approximately 2,500 Tesla Roadsters to customers in over 30 countries, predominately in North America and Europe. We concluded the production run of the Tesla Roadster in January 2012.

Stationary Energy Storage Applications

Using the energy management technologies and manufacturing processes developed for our vehicle powertrain systems, we have developed stationary energy storage products for use in homes, commercial sites and utilities. The applications for these battery systems include backup power, peak demand reduction, demand response and wholesale electric market services. We began selling our home systems in 2013 and our commercial and utility systems in 2014. We plan to ramp sales of these products in 2015.

Powertrain Development and Sales

In addition to our own vehicles, we also design, develop, manufacture and sell advanced electric vehicle powertrain components to other automotive manufacturers.  We have provided development services and full powertrain systems and components to Daimler for its Smart fortwo, A-Class, and B-Class electric vehicles and to Toyota for use in its RAV4 EV. We are continuing to supply production parts for the Daimler B class electric vehicle.

Technology

We believe the core competencies of our company are powertrain engineering, vehicle engineering and innovative manufacturing. Our core intellectual property is contained within our electric powertrain and the ability to design a vehicle which capitalizes on the uniqueness of an electric powertrain. Our electric powertrain consists of the following: battery pack, power electronics, motor, gearbox and the control software which enables the components to operate as a system. We designed each of these major elements for our Tesla Roadster and Model S and plan to use much of this technology in Model X, Model 3, our future electric vehicles and powertrain components that we build for other manufacturers. Our powertrain and battery pack have a modular design, enabling future generations of electric vehicles and our stationary storage applications to incorporate a significant amount of this technology. Further, our powertrain is very compact and contains far fewer moving parts than the internal combustion powertrain. These features enable us to adapt it for a variety of applications, including our future vehicles and any powertrain components we build for other manufacturers.

Battery Pack

We design our battery packs to achieve high energy density at a low cost while also maintaining safety, reliability and long life.  For example, we have designed our Model S battery packs to store 85 kilowatt hours of useful energy and offer a warranty of unlimited miles over eight years. Our proprietary technology includes cooling systems, safety systems, charge balancing systems, battery engineering for vibration and environmental durability, robotic manufacturing processes, customized motor design and the software and electronics management systems necessary to manage battery and vehicle performance under demanding real-life driving conditions. We have significant experience and expertise in the safety and management systems needed to work with lithium-ion cells in the demanding automotive environment. We believe these advancements have enabled us to produce a battery pack at a low cost per kilowatt-hour.






We have designed our battery pack system to permit flexibility with respect to battery cell chemistry, form factor and vendor. In so doing, we believe that we can leverage the substantial battery cell investments and advancements being made globally by battery cell manufacturers and ourselves to continue to improve the cost per kilowatt-hour of our battery pack. We maintain an internal battery cell testing lab and an extensive performance database of the many available lithium-ion cell vendors and chemistry types. We intend to incorporate the battery cells that provide the best value and performance possible into our battery packs, and we expect this to continue over time as battery cells continue to improve in energy storage capacity, longevity, power delivery and cost. We believe this flexibility will enable us to continue to evaluate new battery cells as they become commercially viable, and thereby optimize battery pack system performance and cost for our current and future vehicles. In addition, we are designing the cell manufacturing equipment for the Tesla Gigafactory to enableflexibility in terms of battery chemistry and form factor.We believe our ability to change battery cell chemistries and vendors while retaining our existing investments in software, electronics, manufacturing equipment, testing and vehicle packaging, will enable us to quickly deploy various battery cells into our products and leverage the latest advancements in battery cell technology.

The range of our electric vehicles on a single charge declines principally as a function of usage, time and charging patterns. Customers’ use of their Tesla vehicle as well as the frequency with which they charge the battery of their Tesla vehicle can result in additional deterioration of the battery’s ability to hold a charge. For example, we currently expect that the Tesla Roadster battery pack will retain approximately 70% of its ability to hold its initial charge after approximately 100,000 miles or seven years, which will result in a decrease to the vehicle’s initial range. In comparison with the Roadster battery pack, preliminary internal testing and customer results of Model S to date suggest that the retention rate of the Model S battery pack is greater, due to improvements at the battery cell and pack level. In addition, based on internal testing, we estimate that the Model S would have an approximate 5-10% reduction in range when operated continuously in 0°C temperatures.

To date, we have tested hundreds of battery cells of different chemistries, form factors and designs. Based on this evaluation, we are presently using lithium-ion battery cells based on the 18650 form factor in all of our battery packs. We intend to use the same battery cell form factor in Model X and entered into a supply agreement with Panasonic Corporation (Panasonic) for the use of Panasonic’s battery cells in Model S and Model X. We expect these battery cells to exhibit better performance and longer lifetimes than the battery cells used in the Tesla Roadster.

Power Electronics

The power electronics in our electric powertrain govern the flow of electrical current throughout the car, primarily the current that flows into and out of the battery pack. The power electronics have two primary functions, the control of torque generation in the motor while driving and the control of energy delivery back into the battery pack while charging.

The first function is accomplished through the drive inverter, which converts direct current (DC) from the battery pack into alternating current (AC) to drive our three-phase induction motors. The drive inverter also converts the AC generated by regenerative braking back into DC for electrical storage in the battery pack. The drive inverter performs this function by using a high-performance digital signal processor which runs some of the most complicated and detailed software in the vehicle. In so doing, the drive inverter is directly responsible for the performance, high efficiency and overall driving experience of the vehicle.

The second function, charging the battery pack, is accomplished by the charger, which converts alternating current (usually from a wall outlet or other electricity source) into direct current that can be accepted by the battery. Tesla vehicles can recharge on a variety of AC electrical sources, from a common outlet to a high power circuit of up to 22kW, which provides faster recharging. Vehicles in both the United States and Europe come with the Tesla Mobile Connector which enables charging from a variety of different outlets.  In other markets, Tesla offers a Tesla Wall Connector that can be hardwired at a wide range of power levels to suit the electrical capabilities of the charging location.

The most common home charging system uses a standard high power and Mobile Connector to charge overnight.  On the road, customers can also charge using our Supercharger network or at a variety of destinations that have deployed our charging equipment.  In addition, Model S vehicles can also charge at a variety of public charging stations around the world, either natively or through a suite of adapters.This flexibility in charging provides customers with additional mobility, while also allowing them to conveniently charge the vehicle overnight at home.






Vehicle Control and Infotainment Software

The performance and safety systems of our vehicles and their battery packs require sophisticated control software. There are numerous processors in our vehicles to control these functions, and we write custom firmware for many of these processors. The flow of electricity between the battery pack and the motor must be tightly controlled in order to deliver the performance and behavior expected in the vehicle. For example, software algorithms enable the vehicle to mimic the “creep” feeling which drivers expect from an internal combustion engine vehicle without having to apply pressure on the accelerator. Similar algorithms control traction, vehicle stability and the sustained acceleration and regenerative braking of the vehicle. Software also is used extensively to monitor the charge state of each of the cells of the battery pack and to manage all of its safety systems. Drivers use the information and control systems in our vehicles to optimize performance, customize vehicle behavior, manage charging modes and times and control all infotainment functions. We develop almost all of this software, including most of the user interfaces, internally.We are also developing expertise in vehicle autopilot systems, including road tracking, lane changing, automated parking, driver warning systems and automated braking functions.

Vehicle Design and Engineering

In addition to the design, development and production of the powertrain, we have created significant in-house capabilities in the design and engineering of electric vehicles and electric vehicle components and systems. We design and engineer bodies, chassis, interiors, heating and cooling and low voltage electrical systems in house and to a lesser extent in conjunction with our suppliers. Our team has core competencies in computer aided design and crash test simulations which we expect to reduce the product development time of new models.

Several traditional automotive subsystems required substantial redesign and custom optimization to integrate with the powertrain of an electric vehicle. For example, we redesigned the heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) system to integrate with the battery thermal management system and to operate without the energy generated from an internal combustion engine. We have developed expertise in integrating these components with the high-voltage power source in the vehicle and in designing components that significantly reduce their load on the vehicle battery pack, thereby maximizing the available range of the vehicle.

Additionally, our team has expertise in lightweight materials, a very important characteristic for electric vehicles given the impact of mass on range. Model S is built with a lightweight aluminum body and chassis which incorporates a variety of materials and production methods that help optimize the weight of the vehicle.

Sales and Marketing

Company-Owned Stores and Galleries

We market and sell cars directly to consumers through an international network of company-owned stores and galleries. Our Tesla stores and galleries are highly visible, premium outlets in major metropolitan markets, some of which combine retail sales and service. We have also found that opening a service center in a new geographic area can increase demand. As a result, we have complemented our store strategy with sales facilities and personnel in service centers to more rapidly expand our retail footprint. We refer to these as “Service Plus” locations. Including all of our sales, Service Plus and service facilities, we operated 159 locations around the world as of December 31, 2014.

We believe that by owning our own sales and service network we can offer a compelling customer experience while achieving operating efficiencies and capturing sales and service revenues incumbent automobile manufacturers do not enjoy in the traditional franchised distribution and service model. Our customers deal directly with our own Tesla-employed sales and service staff, creating what we believe is a differentiated buying experience from the buying experience consumers have with franchised automobile dealers and service centers. We believe we will also be able to better control costs of inventory, manage warranty service and pricing, maintain and strengthen the Tesla brand, and obtain rapid customer feedback. Further, we believe that by owning our sales network we will avoid the conflict of interest in the traditional dealership structure inherent to most incumbent automobile manufacturers where the sale of warranty parts and repairs by a dealer are a key source of revenue and profit for the dealer but often are an expense for the vehicle manufacturer.






Tesla Supercharger Network

We are building a network of up to 120 kW fast charging equipment, each called a Tesla Supercharger, throughout North America, Europe and Asia for fast charging of Model S and future Tesla vehicles. Our Supercharger network is a strategic corporate initiative designed to remove a barrier to the broader adoption of electric vehicles caused by the perception of limited vehicle range and to provide free charging access to Tesla’s existing customers.  The Tesla Supercharger is an industrial grade, high speed charger designed to replenish 170 miles of range in the battery pack in as little as 30 minutes. Supercharger stations typically have between four to ten Superchargers and are strategically placed primarily along well-travelled highways to allow Model S owners to enjoy long distance travel with convenient, minimal stops. We currently have 380 Supercharger stations open in North America, Europe, and Asia. Access to the Supercharger network is currently available free of charge to owners of Model S vehicles with the 85 kWh battery pack options and when purchased as an upfront option for 60 kWh. We are planning to methodically expand the Supercharger network over the next few years in the United States, Europe and Asia.

Destination Charging

We are working with a wide variety of locations, including hotels and popular destinations, to offer an additional charging option for our customers.  These destination charging partners deploy our wall connectors and provide charging free of charge to Model S owners.  Almost 1,000 locations in Asia and North America currently have 1,800 Tesla wall connectors installed.  We plan to expand the Destination Charging program into Europe in Q2 of this year.

Orders and Reservations

We typically carry a very limited inventory of our Model S vehicles at our Tesla stores. The vast majority of our customers customize their vehicle by placing an order with us. We require a $2,500 payment to begin production for these, which is collected once the customer has selected the vehicle specifications and has entered into a purchase agreement. In certain markets, we require additional payments a few weeks prior to delivery. We require all remaining payment of the purchase price of the vehicle upon delivery of the vehicle to the customer.

For Model X, which is currently not in production, we require an initial refundable reservation payment of at least $5,000. Reservation payments and deposits are used by us to fund, in part, our working capital requirements and help us to align production with demand.

Marketing

Our principal marketing goals are to:

·generate demand for our vehicles and drive leads to our sales teams;

·build long-term brand awareness and manage corporate reputation;

·manage our existing customer base to create loyalty and customer referrals; and

·enable customer input into the product development process.

Historically, we have been able to generate significant media coverage of our company and our vehicles, and we believe we will continue to do so. To date, media coverage and word of mouth have been the primary drivers of our sales leads and have helped us achieve sales without traditional advertising and at relatively low marketing costs.

Our marketing efforts include events where our vehicles are displayed and demonstrated. These events range from widely attended public events, such as the Detroit, Los Angeles, and Frankfurt auto shows, to smaller events oriented towards sales, such as private drive events.

Service and Warranty

Service

We provide service for our electric vehicles at our company-owned service centers, at our Service Plus locations or, in certain areas for an additional charge, through Tesla Ranger mobile technicians who provide services that do not require a vehicle lift. We own and operate 95 service locations as of December 31, 2014. We are continuing our plan to build a number of additional service centers in several markets worldwide.

Model S is designed with the capability to wirelessly upload the data to us via an on-board GSM system, allowing us to diagnose and remedy many problems before ever looking at the vehicle. When maintenance or service is required, a customer can schedule service by contacting one of our Tesla service centers. Our Tesla Rangers, or mobile service team, can also perform an array of services that do not require a vehicle lift from the convenience of a customer’s home or other remote location.






We believe that our company-owned service centers enable our technicians to work closely with our engineers and research and development teams in Silicon Valley to identify problems, find solutions, and incorporate improvements faster than incumbent automobile manufacturers.

New Vehicle Limited Warranty, Maintenance and Extended Service Plans

For our Model S customers, we provide a four year or 50,000 mile New Vehicle Limited Warranty with every Model S, subject to separate limited warranties for the supplemental restraint system and battery. During the third quarter of 2014, we extended the warranty on our Model S drive unit to eight years from four. The New Vehicle Limited Warranty also covers the battery for a period of eight years or 125,000 miles or unlimited miles, depending on the size of the vehicle’s battery, although the battery’s charging capacity is not covered.

In addition to the New Vehicle Limited Warranty, we offer a comprehensive maintenance program for Model S, which includes plans covering maintenance for up to eight years or up to 100,000 miles and an Extended Service Plan. The maintenance plans cover annual inspections, 24 hour roadside assistance and the replacement of wear and tear parts, excluding tires and the battery, with either a fixed fee per visit for Tesla Ranger service or unlimited Tesla Ranger visits for a higher initial purchase price. The Extended Service Plan covers the repair or replacement of Model S parts for an additional four years or up to an additional 50,000 miles after the New Vehicle Limited Warranty.

For our Roadster customers, we provided a three year or 36,000 mile New Vehicle Limited Warranty with every Tesla Roadster, which we extended to four years or 50,000 miles for the purchasers of our 2008 Tesla Roadster. Customers have the opportunity to purchase an Extended Service Plan for the period after the end of the New Vehicle Limited Warranty to cover the repair or replacement of Roadster parts for up to an additional three years or 36,000 miles, provided they are purchased within a specified period of time. We have previously provided our Tesla Roadster customers with a battery replacement option to replace the battery in their vehicles at any time after the expiration of the New Vehicle Limited Warranty but before the tenth anniversary of the purchase date of their vehicles.

Our New Vehicle Limited Warranties and Extended Service plans are subject to certain limitations, exclusions or separate warranties, including certain wear items, such as tires, brake pads, paint and general appearance, and battery performance, and are intended to cover parts and labor to repair defects in material or workmanship in the body, chassis, suspension, interior, electronic systems, battery, powertrain and brake system. In addition, all plans must be purchased within a specified period of time after vehicle purchase.

Financial Services

We offer loans and leases in North America, Europe and Asia primarily through various financial institutions.  We also offer leases directly through our captive finance company in 37 states, the District of Columbia and in 4 provinces of Canada.Certain of our loan programs provide customers with a resale value guarantee under which those customers have the option of selling their vehicle back to us during the period of 36 to 39 months following delivery for a pre-determined resale value. This structure allows the customer to enjoy the benefits of Model S ownership without concern for its resale value. We introduced this program in North America in 2013 and expanded it to selected European markets in 2014.In certain markets, we also offer buy back guarantees to financial institutions which obligate us to repurchase, and the institution to sell us, the vehicles for a pre-determined price. We intend to broaden our financial services offerings during the next few years.

Manufacturing

We conduct our powertrain and vehicle manufacturing and assembly operations at our facilities in Fremont, California; Lathrop, California; and Tilburg, Netherlands.  We are also building a cell and battery manufacturing facility, the Tesla Gigafactory, outside of Reno, Nevada.

The Tesla Factory in Fremont, CA and Manufacturing in Lathrop, CA

We manufacture Model S and certain components that are critical to our intellectual property and quality standards for Model S at the Tesla Factory. The Tesla Factory contains several manufacturing operations, including stamping, machining, casting, plastics, body assembly, paint operations, final vehicle assembly and end-of-line testing. In addition, we manufacture lithium-ion battery packs, electric motors, gearboxes and components both for our vehicles and for our original equipment manufacturer customers at the Tesla Factory. Several major component systems of our vehicles are purchased from suppliers; however we have a high level of vertical integration in our manufacturing processes at the Tesla Factory.  We recently commenced production and machining of various aluminum components at our facility in Lathrop, California.

We continue to increase our production capacity at the Tesla Factory with the goal of producing Model S, Model X and Model 3 at this location.  In 2015, we intend to create a new body shop line to prepare for the expanded production of both Model S and Model X.  We are also finishing the construction of a new high volume paint shop, to be used for Model S, Model X and Model 3.






The Netherlands

Our European headquarters is located in Amsterdam, Netherlands and houses our sales, service, and administrative functions.  We also have operations in Tilburg, Netherlands for final assembly, testing and quality control for vehicles ultimately delivered into the European Union.  The Tilburg facility also serves as a pan-European parts warehouse, remanufacturing site and customer service center.

The Tesla Gigafactory outside of Reno, Nevada

We are developing the Tesla Gigafactory as a facility where we work together with our suppliers to integrate battery precursor material, cell, module and battery pack production in one location. We plan to use the battery packs manufactured at the Gigafactory for our vehicles and for our stationary storage applications. We broke ground on the Gigafactory in June 2014 and currently expect to produce cells at this site beginning in 2016 for use initially in Model S and Model X. The Gigafactory is currently expected to attain full production capacity in 2020, which is anticipated to be sufficient for the production of approximately 500,000 vehicles annually as well as for the production of our stationary storage applications. By the time the Gigafactory reaches full, annualized production in 2020, we expect battery pack production capacity to reach 50 GWh. Of this, we expect to build 35 GWh of cell production capacity at the Gigafactory and purchase 15 GWh of cells from other manufacturers, potentially including Panasonic.

We believe that the Gigafactory will allow us to achieve a major reduction in the cost of our battery packs of greater than 30% on a per kWh basis by the end of the first year of volume production of Model 3. The total capital expenditures associated with the Gigafactory through 2020 are expected to be $4-$5 billion, of which approximately $2 billion is expected to come from Tesla. Panasonic has agreed to partner with us on the Gigafactory with investments in production equipment that it will use to manufacture and supply us with battery cells. We have agreed to prepare and provide the land, buildings and utilities, invest in production equipment for battery module and pack production and be responsible for the overall management.  We expect to announce other partners as construction progresses.

Supply Chain

Model S uses over 3,000 purchased parts which we source globally from over 350 suppliers, the majority of whom are currently our single source suppliers for these components. We have developed close relationships with several key suppliers particularly in the procurement of cells and certain other key system parts. While we obtain components from multiple sources whenever possible, similar to other automobile manufacturers, many of the components used in our vehicles are purchased by us from a single source. In addition, while several sources of the battery cell we have selected for our battery packs are available, we have currently fully qualified only one cell. We expect to fully qualify additional cells from other manufacturers in 2015.

We use various raw materials in our business including aluminum, steel, cobalt, nickel and copper. The prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions and global demand for these materials. We believe that we have adequate supplies or sources of availability of the raw materials necessary to meet our manufacturing and supply requirements. There are always risks and uncertainties, however, with respect to the supply of raw materials that could impact their availability in sufficient quantities or reasonable prices to meet our needs.

Quality Control

Our quality control efforts are divided between product quality and supplier quality, both of which are focused on designing and producing products and processes with high levels of reliability. Our product quality engineers work with our engineering team and our suppliers to help ensure that the product designs meet functional specifications and durability requirements. Our supplier quality engineers work with our suppliers to ensure that their processes and systems are capable of delivering the parts we need at the required quality level, on time, and on budget.

Customers and Selected Relationships

We currently sell our cars primarily to individual customers. We have strategic or commercial relationships with Panasonic, Daimler, and Toyota.

Panasonic

Panasonic supplies us with battery cells for our battery packs and has partnered with us on the construction of the Gigafactory.  In January 2010, we announced that we were collaborating with Panasonic on the development of next-generation electric vehicle cells based on the 18650 form factor and nickel-based lithium ion chemistry. In October 2011, we finalized a supply agreement for these battery cells. In October 2013, we entered into an amendment to the supply agreement to, among other things, provide for the long-term preferential prices and a minimum of 1.8 billion lithium-ion battery cells that we intend to purchase from Panasonic from 2014 through 2017.   In July 2014, Panasonic agreed to partner with us on the Gigafactory.






Daimler AG

Beginning in 2008, we commenced efforts on a powertrain development arrangement with Daimler. Since that time, we have developed and produced powertrain components for Daimler for the Smart fortwo electric drive program, the A-Class electric vehicle program and the B-Class electric vehicle program. We started to supply production parts for the B-Class electric vehicle program in 2014 and expect to continue to supply parts under this program for the next few years.

Toyota Motor Corporation

In May 2010, we and Toyota announced our intention to cooperate on the development of electric vehicles, and for us to receive Toyota’s support with sourcing parts and production and engineering expertise for Model S. Since that time, we have developed and produced a validated powertrain system, including a battery, power electronics module, motor, gearbox and associated software, which was integrated into an electric vehicle version of the Toyota RAV4. We began delivery of these systems to Toyota for installation into the Toyota RAV4 EV in the first half of 2012. During the third quarter of 2014, we completed the RAV4 EV program.

Governmental Programs, Incentives and Regulations

Full Repayment of United States Department of Energy Loans

In May 2013, we paid $451.8 million to settle all outstanding loan amounts due under a loan facility we had entered into with the Federal Financing Bank (FFB) and the United States Department of Energy (DOE), under the DOE’s Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program, as set forth in Section 136 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (ATVM Program). We refer to the loan facility with the DOE as the DOE Loan Facility.

Under the DOE Loan Facility, the FFB had made available to us two multi-draw term loan facilities in an aggregate principal amount of $465.0 million beginning on January 20, 2010. As of August 31, 2012, we had fully drawn down the aforementioned facilities. On May 22, 2013, we paid $451.8 million to fully retire our obligations under the DOE Loan Facility.

In connection with the closing of the DOE Loan Facility, we had also issued a warrant to the DOE to purchase up to 9,255,035 shares of our Series E convertible preferred stock at an exercise price of $2.51 per share. Upon the completion of our initial public offering on July 2, 2010, this preferred stock warrant became a warrant to purchase up to 3,090,111 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $7.54 per share. As a result of our repayment of all outstanding principal and interest under the DOE Loan Facility and the termination of the DOE Loan Facility in May 2013, the DOE warrant expired. Additionally, we amortized all remaining unamortized debt issuance costs related to the DOE Loan Facility.

California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing Authority Tax Incentives

In December 2009, we finalized an arrangement with the California Alternative Energy and Advanced Transportation Financing Authority (CAEATFA) that resulted in an exemption from California state sales and use taxes for the purchase of $320 million of manufacturing equipment. As the equipment purchased would otherwise have been subject to California state sales and use tax, we believe this incentive resulted in tax savings by us of approximately $31 million over the period starting in December 2009 and ending in December 2013. The equipment purchases were used for three purposes: (i) to establish our production facility for Model S in California, (ii) to upgrade our Palo Alto powertrain production facility, and (iii) to expand our Tesla Roadster assembly operations at our Menlo Park facility. We exhausted all funds from the December 2009 approved exemption from California state sales and use taxes for $320 million of manufacturing equipment in December 2013.

In January 2012, we finalized an additional agreement with CAEATFA for an exclusion from California state sales and use taxes for the purchase of up to $292 million of manufacturing equipment. To the extent all of this equipment is purchased and would otherwise be subject to California state sales or use tax, we believe this incentive would result in tax savings by us of up to approximately $24 million over the period starting in December 2011 and ending in December 2015. The equipment purchased under this exclusion may only be used for two purposes: (i) to develop Model X and its production capacity in California and (ii) to further upgrade our powertrain production facilities in California. We have not yet exhausted the $292 million in funds approved by CAEATFA in 2012.

In December 2013, we finalized a third agreement with CAEATFA that will result in an exclusion from California state sales and use taxes for an additional $415 million of manufacturing equipment. To the extent all of this equipment is purchased and would otherwise be subject to California state sales or use tax, we believe this 2013 incentive would result in tax savings by us of up to approximately $35 million over the period starting in December 2013 and ending in December 2016. The equipment purchased under this exclusion may only be used for three purposes: (i) to expand Model S manufacturing capacity in California; (ii) to expand electric vehicle powertrain production in California; and (iii) future Model S electric vehicle development.






Regulatory Credits

In connection with the production, delivery, and placement into service of our zero emission vehicles in global markets, we have earned and will continue to earn various tradable regulatory credits that can be sold to other manufacturers.

Additionally, under the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) national greenhouse gas (GHG) emission standards and similar standards adopted by the Canadian government, car and truck manufacturers are required to meet fleet-wide average carbon dioxide emissions standards. Manufacturers who fail to meet such standards have a deficit in their emission profile.  Manufacturers whose fleet wide average performs better than such standards may earn credits. Manufacturers may sell excess credits to other manufacturers, who can use the credits to comply with these regulatory requirements. As a manufacturer solely of zero emission vehicles, we earn the full amount of GHG credits established by the standards on each vehicle sold. We have contracted with another automobile manufacturer to sell all earned credits.

Under the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s (NHTSA) Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards, car and truck manufacturers are required to meet fleet-wide average fuel economy standards. Manufacturers that fail to meet such standards have a deficit in their fuel economy profile.  Manufacturers whose fleet-wide average performs better than such standards may earn credits. Manufacturers may sell excess credits to other manufacturers, who can use such credits to comply with these regulatory requirements. We have entered into agreements to sell the credits that we earn.

Regulation—Vehicle Safety and Testing

Our vehicles are subject to, and comply with or are otherwise exempt from, numerous regulatory requirements established by NHTSA, including all applicable United States Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (FMVSS). The Model S fully complies with all FMVSSs without the need for any exemptions.  The Roadster complies with or is exempt from all FMVSS.

As a manufacturer, we must self-certify that our vehicles meet all applicable FMVSS, as well as the NHTSA bumper standard, or otherwise are exempt, before the vehicles can be imported or sold in the United States. Numerous FMVSS apply to our vehicles, such as crash-worthiness requirements, crash avoidance requirements, and electric vehicle requirements. We are also required to comply with other federal laws administered by NHTSA, including the CAFE standards, Theft Prevention Act requirements, consumer information labeling requirements, Early Warning Reporting requirements regarding warranty claims, field reports, death and injury reports and foreign recalls, and owner’s manual requirements.

The Automobile Information and Disclosure Act requires manufacturers of motor vehicles to disclose certain information regarding the manufacturer’s suggested retail price, optional equipment and pricing. In addition, the Act allows inclusion of city and highway fuel economy ratings, as determined by EPA, as well as crash test ratings as determined by NHTSA if such tests are conducted.

Our vehicles sold in outside of the U.S. are subject to foreign safety testing regulations. Many of those regulations are different from the federal motor vehicle safety standards applicable in the United States and may require redesign and/or retesting.

Regulation—EPA Emissions & Certificate of Conformity

The Clean Air Act requires that we obtain both an EPA-issued Certificate of Conformity and a California Air Resources Board (CARB)-issued Executive Order with respect to emissions for our vehicles. The Certificate of Conformity is required for vehicles sold in states covered by the Clean Air Act’s standards and both the Certificate of Conformity and the Executive Order are required for vehicles sold in states that have sought and received a waiver from the EPA to utilize California standards. The California standards for emissions control for certain regulated pollutants for new vehicles and engines sold in California are set by CARB. States that have adopted the California standards as approved by EPA also recognize the Executive Order for sales of vehicles.






Regulation—Battery Safety and Testing

Our battery pack conforms to mandatory regulations that govern transport of “dangerous goods”, defined to include lithium-ion batteries, which may present a risk in transportation. The governing regulations, issued by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA), are based on the United Nations (UN) Recommendations and Model Regulations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, as well as related UN Manual Tests and Criteria. The regulations vary by mode of shipping transportation, such as by ocean vessel, rail, truck, or air.  We have completed the applicable transportation tests for our prototype and production battery packs, demonstrating our compliance with the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria. We also subject our battery packs to the appropriate tests specified in the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) J2464 and J2929 standards, which incorporate tests such as immersion, humidity, and exposure to fire.

We use lithium metal oxide cells in our high voltage battery packs. The cells do not contain any lead, mercury, cadmium, other hazardous materials, heavy metals, or toxic materials. Our battery packs include certain packaging materials that contain trace amounts of hazardous chemicals whose use, storage, and disposal is regulated under federal law. We currently have an agreement with a third party battery recycling company to recycle our battery packs. If a customer wishes to dispose of a battery pack from one of our vehicles, we anticipate accepting the depleted battery from the customer without any additional charge.

Automobile Manufacturer and Dealer Regulation

State laws regulate the manufacture, distribution, and sale of automobiles, and generally require motor vehicle manufacturers and dealers to be licensed in order to sell vehicles directly to consumers in the state. As we open additional Tesla stores and service centers, we secure dealer licenses (or their equivalent) and engage in sales activities to sell our vehicles directly to consumers. A few states, such as Texas and Michigan, do not permit automobile manufacturers to be licensed as dealers or to act in the capacity of a dealer, or otherwise restrict a manufacturer’s ability to deliver or service vehicles. To sell vehicles to residents of states where we are not licensed as a dealer, we must generally conduct the sale out of the state via the internet, phone or mail. In such states, we have opened “galleries” that serve an educational purpose and are not retail locations.

As we expand our retail footprint in the United States, some automobile dealer trade associations have both challenged the legality of our operations in court and used administrative and legislative processes to attempt to prohibit or limit our ability to operate existing stores or expand to new locations. Although we have thus far prevailed in every lawsuit brought by dealer associations, we expect that the dealer associations will continue to mount challenges to our business model.  In addition, we expect the dealer associations to actively lobbying state Governors and legislators to interpret existing laws or enact new laws in ways not favorable to Tesla’s ownership and operation of its own retail and service locations.

While we have analyzed the principal laws in the US, EU, China, Japan, UK, and Australia relating to our distribution model and believe we comply with such laws, we have not performed a complete analysis of all jurisdictions in which we may sell vehicles.  Accordingly, there may be laws in certain jurisdictions that may restrict our sales and service operations.

Competition

The worldwide automotive market, particularly for alternative fuel vehicles, is highly competitive today and we expect it will become even more so in the future as we introduce additional, lower priced vehicles such as our Model 3. We believe the impact of new regulatory requirements for occupant safety and vehicle emissions, technological advances in powertrain and consumer electronics components, and shifting customer needs and expectations are causing the industry to evolve in the direction of electric-based vehicles. We believe the primary competitive factors in our markets include but are not limited to:

●technological innovation;

●product quality and safety;

●service options;

●product performance;

●design and styling;

●brand perception;

●product price; and

●manufacturing efficiency.

We believe that our vehicles compete in the market both based on their traditional segment classification as well as based on their propulsion technology. For example, Model S competes primarily in the extremely competitive premium sedan market with internal combustion vehicles from more established automobile manufacturers, including Audi, BMW, Lexus and Mercedes. Our vehicles also compete with vehicles propelled by alternative fuels, principally electricity.






Many established and new automobile manufacturers have entered or have announced plans to enter the alternative fuel vehicle market. BMW, Daimler, Nissan, Fiat, Ford and Mitsubishi, among others, have electric vehicles available today. Moreover, Porsche, Lexus, Audi, Volkswagen and Volvo are also developing electric vehicles. Electric vehicles have also already been brought to market in China and other foreign countries and we expect a number of those manufacturers to enter the United States market as well.  In addition, several manufacturers, including General Motors, Toyota, Ford, and Honda, are each selling hybrid vehicles, and certain of these manufacturers have announced plug-in versions of their hybrid vehicles.

Most of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater resources than we do, may be able to devote greater resources to the manufacture, sale and support of their products, and have other advantages. We believe our exclusive focus on electric vehicles and electric vehicle components, as well as our history of vehicle development and production, however, are the basis on which we can compete in the global automotive market in spite of the challenges posed by our competition.

Intellectual Property

As part of our business, we seek to protect our intellectual property rights in various ways, including through trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, including know-how, patents, patent applications, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements, intellectual property licenses and other contractual rights. Additionally, consistent with our mission to accelerate the advent of sustainable transport, we announced a patent policy in which we irrevocably pledged that we will not initiate a lawsuit against any party for infringing our patents through activity relating to electric vehicles or related equipment for so long as such party is acting in good faith.  We made this pledge in order to encourage the advancement of a common, rapidly-evolving platform for electric vehicles, thereby benefiting ourselves, other companies making electric vehicles, and the world.

Segment Information

We have determined that we operate as one reportable segment, which is the design, development, manufacturing and sales of electric vehicles and electric powertrain components. For information regarding financial data by geographic areas, see Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Employees

As of December 31, 2014, we had 10,161 full-time employees. To date, we have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good.

Available Information

We file or furnish periodic reports and amendments thereto, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K; proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports, amendments, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Our reports, amendments thereto, proxy statements and other information are also made available, free of charge, on our investor relations website atir.teslamotors.comas soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such information with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





