ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Our
    Company



IPG Photonics Corporation (“IPG,” the
    “Company,” the “Registrant,” “we”,
    “us” or “our”) was incorporated in Delaware
    in 1998. We are the leading developer and manufacturer of a
    broad line of high-performance fiber lasers for diverse
    applications in numerous markets. Fiber lasers are a new
    generation of lasers that combine the advantages of
    semiconductor diodes, such as long life and high efficiency,
    with the high amplification and precise beam qualities of
    specialty optical fibers to deliver superior performance,
    reliability and usability.



Our diverse lines of low, mid and high-power lasers and
    amplifiers are used in materials processing, advanced,
    communications and medical applications. We sell our products
    globally to original equipment manufacturers, or original
    equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), system integrators
    and end users. We market our products internationally primarily
    through our direct sales force and also through agreements with
    independent sales representatives and distributors. We have
    sales offices in the United States, Germany, Italy, the United
    Kingdom, France, Japan, China, South Korea, Singapore, India and
    Russia.



We are vertically integrated. We design and manufacture most key
    components used in our finished products, including
    semiconductor diodes, optical fiber preforms and cables,
    finished fiber lasers and amplifiers. We also manufacture
    certain complementary products used with our lasers including
    optical heads, beam splitters and chillers. Our vertically
    integrated operations allow us to reduce manufacturing costs,
    ensure access to critical components, rapidly develop and
    integrate advanced products and protect our proprietary
    technology.



Industry
    Background



Conventional
    Laser Technologies



Since the laser was invented over 50 years ago, laser
    technology has revolutionized a broad range of applications and
    products in various industries, including automotive, medical,
    research, consumer products,





electronics, semiconductors and communications. Lasers provide
    flexible, non-contact and high-speed ways to process and treat
    various materials. They are widely used to transmit large
    volumes of data in optical communications systems, in various
    medical applications and in test and measurement systems. For a
    wide variety of applications, lasers provide superior
    performance and a more cost-effective solution than non-laser
    technologies.



Lasers emit an intense light beam that can be focused on a small
    area, causing metals and other materials to melt, vaporize or
    change their character. These properties are utilized in
    applications requiring very high-power densities, such as
    marking, printing, welding, cutting, drilling, cladding and
    other materials processing procedures. Lasers are well-suited
    for imaging and inspection applications, and the ability to
    confine laser light to narrow wavelengths makes them
    particularly effective in medical and sensing applications. A
    laser works by converting electrical energy to optical energy.
    In a laser, an energy source excites or pumps a lasing medium,
    which converts the energy from the source into an emission
    consisting of particles of light, called photons, at a
    particular wavelength. Lasers are used as an energy or light
    source for various applications. They are also incorporated into
    manufacturing, medical and other systems by OEMs, system
    integrators and end users.



Historically,
    CO2gas lasers and crystal lasers have been the two principal laser
    types used in materials processing and many other applications.
    They are named for the materials used to create the lasing
    action. A
    CO2laser produces light by electrically stimulating a gas-filled
    tube. A crystal laser uses an arc lamp, pulsed flash lamp, or
    diode stack or array to optically pump a special crystal. The
    most common crystal lasers use yttrium aluminum garnet (YAG)
    crystals infused with neodymium or ytterbium.



Introduction
    of Fiber Lasers



Fiber lasers use semiconductor diodes as the light source to
    pump specialty optical fibers, which are infused with rare earth
    ions. These fibers are called active fibers and are comparable
    in diameter to a human hair. The laser emission is created
    within optical fibers and delivered through a flexible optical
    fiber cable. As a result of their different design and
    components, fiber lasers are more reliable, efficient, robust
    and portable, and easier to operate than conventional lasers. In
    addition, fiber lasers free the end users from fine mechanical
    adjustments and the high maintenance costs that are typical for
    conventional lasers.



Although low-power fiber lasers have existed for approximately
    four decades, their increased recent adoption has been driven
    primarily by our improvements in their performance, increases in
    output power levels and decreased costs including technological
    improvements in optical components such as active fibers that
    have increased their power capacities and improved their
    performance. Fiber lasers now offer output powers that exceed
    those of conventional lasers in many categories. Also,
    semiconductor diodes historically have represented the majority
    of the cost of fiber lasers. The high cost of diodes meant that
    fiber lasers could not compete with conventional lasers on price
    and limited their use to high value-added applications. Over the
    last several years, however, our semiconductor diodes have
    become more affordable and reliable due, in part, to substantial
    advancements in semiconductor diode technology and increased
    production volumes. As a result, the average cost per watt of
    output power has decreased dramatically over the last decade.
    Because of these improvements, our fiber lasers can now
    effectively compete with conventional lasers over a wide range
    of output powers and applications. As a pioneer in the
    development and commercialization of fiber lasers, we have
    contributed to many advancements in fiber laser technology and
    products.



Advantages
    of Fiber Lasers over Conventional Lasers



We believe that fiber lasers provide a combination of benefits
    that include:



•Superior Performance.Fiber lasers provide
    high beam quality over the entire power range. In most
    conventional laser solutions, the beam quality is sensitive to
    output power, while in fiber lasers, the output beam is
    virtually non-divergent over a wide power range, meaning the
    beam can be focused to achieve high levels of precision,
    increased power densities and greater distances over which
    processing can be completed. The superior beam quality and
    greater intensity of a fiber laser’s beam allow tasks to be
    accomplished rapidly and with lower-power units than comparable
    conventional lasers.









•Lower Cost.Fiber lasers offer strong value to
    customers because of their generally lower total cost of
    ownership due to their lower required maintenance costs, high
    reliability and energy efficiency. The initial purchase price
    for fiber lasers is generally below that of YAG lasers and
    comparable to that of conventional
    CO2lasers. Fiber lasers convert electrical energy to optical energy
    approximately 2 to 3 times more efficiently than diode-pumped
    YAG lasers, approximately 3 times more efficiently than
    conventional
    CO2lasers and approximately 15 to 30 times more efficiently than
    lamp-pumped YAG lasers. Because fiber lasers are much more
    energy-efficient and place lower levels of thermal stress on
    their internal components, they have substantially lower cooling
    requirements compared to those of conventional lasers and lower
    or no maintenance costs.



•Ease of Use.Many features of fiber lasers
    make them easier to operate, maintain and integrate into
    laser-based systems as compared to conventional lasers.



•Compact Size and Portability.Fiber lasers are
    typically smaller and lighter in weight than conventional
    lasers, saving valuable floor space. While conventional lasers
    are delicate due to the precise alignment of mirrors, fiber
    lasers are more durable and able to perform in variable
    environments.



•Choice of Wavelengths and Precise Control of
    Beam.The design of fiber lasers generally
    provides a broad range of wavelength choices, allowing users to
    select the precise wavelength that best matches their
    application and materials.



Fiber amplifiers are similar in design to fiber lasers, use many
    of the same components, such as semiconductor diodes and
    specialty optical fibers, and provide many of the same
    advantages in the applications that require amplification.



Notwithstanding the benefits offered by fiber lasers, there
    remain applications and processes where conventional laser
    technologies may provide superior performance with respect to
    particular features. For example, crystal lasers can provide
    higher peak power pulses and fiber lasers do not generate the
    deep ultraviolet light that is used for photolithography in many
    semiconductor applications. In addition,
    CO2lasers operate at wavelengths that are optimal for use on many
    non-metallic materials, including plastics.



Our
    Competitive Strengths



We believe that our key strengths and competitive advantages
    include the following:



Differentiated Proprietary Technology
    Platform.At the core of our products is our
    proprietary pumping technology platform that allows our products
    to have higher output powers and superior beam quality than are
    achievable through other techniques. Our technology platform is
    modular, scalable, robust and electrically efficient.



Leading Market Position.As a pioneer and
    technology leader in fiber lasers, we have built leading
    positions in our various end markets with a large and diverse
    customer base. Based on our leadership positions, we are driving
    the proliferation of fiber lasers in existing and new
    applications.



Breadth and Depth of Expertise.Since the
    founding of our company in 1990, our core business has been
    developing, designing, manufacturing and marketing advanced
    fiber lasers and amplifiers. We have extensive know-how in
    materials sciences, which enables us to make our specialty
    optical fibers, semiconductor diodes and other critical
    components.



Vertically Integrated Development and
    Manufacturing.We develop and manufacture all of
    our key high-volume specialty components, including
    semiconductor diodes, active fibers, passive fibers and
    specialty optical components. Our proprietary components are
    capable of handling the stress of the high optical powers from
    our products and we believe many of them exceed the performance
    of commercially available components. We believe that our
    vertical integration and our high-volume production enhances our
    ability to meet customer requirements, accelerate development,
    manage costs, improve component yields and protect our
    intellectual property, while maintaining high performance and
    quality standards.





Diverse Customer Base, End Markets and
    Applications.Our diverse customer base, end
    markets and applications provide us with many growth
    opportunities. Our products are used in a variety of
    applications and end markets worldwide. Our principal end
    markets and representative applications within those markets
    include:



Materials Processing•     Marking, engraving and
    printingGeneral manufacturing•     Welding, hybrid welding and
    cutting•     Prototyping, cladding and
    stripping•     High-strength steel cutting
    and weldingAutomotive•     Welding tailored metal
    blanks, frames, seats and transmissions•     Cutting frames, sheets and
    plastic bumpers•     Hardening and welding pipes
    in nuclear, wind turbine and pipeline industriesHeavy industry•     Welding and cutting thick
    plates for ships and rail cars•     Drilling concrete and rock•     Welding titanium air framesAerospace•     Cladding parts•     Percussion drilling of parts•     Electronics and credit card
    markingConsumer•     Diamond marking and cutting•     Welding razor blades and
    batteries•     Stent and pacemaker
    manufacturing•     Computer disk manufacturing
    and texturingSemiconductor andelectronics•     Photovoltaic manufacturing•     Memory repair and trim•     Directed energyAdvanced Applications•     Obstacle warning and light
    detecting and ranging•     Materials destruction testing•     Research, sensing and
    instrumentation•     Broadband — fiber
    to premisesCommunications•     Broadband — cable
    video signal transport•     Metro and long-haul
    wire-line DWDM transport•     Skin rejuvenation and
    wrinkle removalMedical•     General surgery and urology•     Dental•     Fat removal







Broad Product Portfolio and Ability to Meet Customer
    Requirements.We offer a broad range of standard
    and custom fiber lasers and amplifiers that operate between 0.5
    and 2 microns. Our vertically integrated manufacturing and broad
    technology expertise enable us to design, prototype and commence
    high-volume production of our products rapidly, allowing our
    customers to meet theirtime-to-marketrequirements.





Our
    Strategy



Our objective is to maintain and extend our leadership position
    by pursuing the following key elements of our strategy:



Leverage Our Technology to Gain Market
    Share.As fiber lasers become more widely
    accepted, we plan to continue to leverage our brand and position
    as the leader in developing and commercializing fiber lasers to
    increase our position in the broader market. Our lasers continue
    to displace conventional lasers in numerous low and mid-power
    materials processing applications, such as marking, engraving,
    printing and sintering. Our high-power lasers also have been
    penetrating several applications that use conventional lasers,
    such as welding, cutting and cladding of metal parts.



Target New Applications for Lasers.We intend
    to continue to enable and penetrate additional applications
    where lasers have not traditionally been used. We believe that
    fiber laser technology can overcome many of the limitations that
    have hindered the adoption of conventional lasers. We target
    applications where higher power, portability, efficiency, size
    and flexible fiber cable delivery can lead customers to adopt
    fiber lasers instead of non-laser solutions. Examples of such
    targeted new applications include solar cell processing and
    hybrid and robotic spot welding.



Expand Our Product Portfolio.We continue to
    invest in research and development to add additional
    wavelengths, power levels and other parameters while also
    improving beam quality. In 2010, we: (i) acquired welding
    tool technology that integrates seamlessly with our fiber laser,
    enabling IPG to provide turnkey robotic laser welding solutions
    for automotive and other materials processing applications;
    (ii) acquired a producer of active and passive laser
    materials and middle-infrared lasers for scientific, biomedical
    and technological applications; (iii) introduced new
    quasi-pulsed CW lasers and green pulsed lasers; and
    (iv) introduced a retro-fit service that allows customers
    to replace YAG and
    CO2lasers with fiber laser sources in their existing laser systems.



Optimize Our Manufacturing Capabilities.We
    plan to seek further increases in the automation of our
    component manufacturing processes and device assembly to improve
    component yields and increase the power outputs and capacities
    of the various components that we make. We intend to leverage
    our technology and operations expertise to manufacture
    additional components in order to reduce costs, ensure component
    quality and ensure supply. In 2010, we redesigned the
    electronics of certain of our low and mid-power products to
    simplify manufacturing, improve quality and decrease costs. In
    addition, we expanded production of our lower cost internally
    developed optical delivery systems. These initiatives, in
    addition to optimizing our manufacturing capabilities and
    maintaining efficient labor costs, are intended to improve
    margins.



Expand Global Reach to Attract Customers
    Worldwide.In 2010, almost 80% of our sales came
    from international customers. Last year, we opened application
    and development centers in Italy and South Korea and we expanded
    our sales office and application development center in Chubu,
    Japan. We intend to capitalize on and grow our global customer
    base by opening new application development centers as well as
    sales and service offices in Russia, Asia, Europe and South
    America.



Products



We design and manufacture a broad range of high-performance
    optical fiber-based lasers and amplifiers. We also make packaged
    diodes, direct diode laser systems and communications systems
    that utilize our optical fiber-based products. Many of our
    products are designed to be used as general purpose energy or
    light sources, making them useful in diverse applications and
    markets.



Our products are based on a common proprietary technology
    platform using many of the same core components, such as
    semiconductor diodes and specialty fibers, which we configure to
    our customers’ specifications. Our engineers and scientists
    work closely with OEMs and end users to develop and customize
    our products for their needs. Because of our flexible and
    modular product architecture, we offer products in different
    configurations according to the desired application, including
    modules, rack-mounted units and tabletop units. Our engineers
    and other technical experts work directly with the customer in
    our application





and development centers to develop and configure the optimal
    solution for each customer’s manufacturing requirements. We
    also make complementary products and components that are used
    with our ultra-high power products, such as fiber couplers, beam
    switches, optical beam delivery cables and chillers. In
    addition, we make laser marking and welding systems for certain
    applications and geographic markets. .



Lasers



Our laser products include low (1 to 99 watts), medium (100 to
    999 watts) and high (1,000 watts and above) output power lasers
    from 0.5 to 2 microns in wavelength. These lasers either may be
    continuous wave (CW) or may be modulated at different rates. We
    offer several different types of lasers, which are defined by
    the type of gain medium they use. These are ytterbium, erbium,
    thulium and Raman. We also sell fiber pigtailed packaged diodes
    and fiber coupled direct diode laser systems that use
    semiconductor diodes rather than optical fibers as their gain
    medium. In addition, we offer high-energy pulsed lasers,
    multi-wavelength lasers, tunable lasers, single-polarization and
    single-frequency lasers, as well as other versions of our
    products.



We believe that we produce the highest power solid-state lasers
    in the industry. Our ytterbium fiber lasers reach power levels
    up of to 50,000 watts. We also make single-mode output ytterbium
    fiber lasers with power levels of up to 10,000 watts and
    single-mode output erbium and thulium fiber lasers with power
    levels of up to 400 watts. Our compact, durable design and
    integrated fiber optic beam delivery allows us to offer
    versatile laser energy sources and simple laser integration for
    complex production processes without compromising quality, speed
    or power.



We also sell laser diode chips and packaged laser diodes
    operating at 9XX nanometers. Recently, we started to sell our
    own family of high power optical fiber delivery cables, fiber
    couplers, beam switches, chillers and other accessories for our
    fiber lasers.



IPG introduced a retrofit service which replaces
    CO2and YAG lasers sources with fiber lasers in the many welding,
    cutting, drilling and other systems allowing customers to retain
    their existing laser systems. IPG is also developing systems
    capabilities for special customer projects and for certain
    international markets. IPG makes a welding seam stepper and
    picker, which is an automated welding tool, that integrate with
    our fiber lasers. The seam stepper and picker can be used in
    automotive assembly, sheet metal production and other materials
    processing applications. IPG also makes active and passive laser
    materials and tunable lasers in the middle-infrared region.



Amplifiers



Our amplifier products range from milliwatts to up to 1,500
    watts of output power from 1 to 2 microns in wavelength. We
    offer erbium-doped fiber amplifiers, commonly called EDFAs,
    Raman amplifiers and integrated communications systems that
    incorporate our amplifiers. These products are predominantly
    deployed in broadband networks such as fiber to the home (FTTH),
    fiber to the curb (FTTC) and passive optical networks (PON), and
    dense wavelength division multiplexing, or DWDM, networks. We
    also offer ytterbium and thulium specialty fiber amplifiers and
    broadband light sources that are used in advanced applications.
    In addition, we sell single-frequency, linearly polarized and
    polarization-maintaining versions of our amplifier products. As
    with our fiber lasers, our fiber amplifiers offer some of the
    highest output power levels and highest number of optical
    outputs in the industry. We believe our line of fiber amplifiers
    offers the best commercially available output power and
    performance.





The following summarizes some of our product offerings by
    product family, primary markets and representative applications
    for each product family:





Product FamilyPrimary MarketsRepresentative
    Applications

Lasers



Short Pulse YtterbiumFiber LasersManufacturingSemiconductorSolarDisplay PanelsMicroelectronicsJewelry•            Marking
    and engraving•            Coating
    removal•            Cutting•            Diamond
    marking•            Scribing



Multi-Mode OutputYtterbium Fiber LasersAutomobilesShipbuildingAerospaceHeavy IndustryConstructionDefense•            Welding
    of automotive tailored blanks and transmissions•            Remote
    welding of automotive frames, doors and seats•            Cutting
    of hydro-formed automotive frames•            Cladding
    of blades and drill bits

•            Materials
    destruction testing

•            Plate
    welding and cutting



Single-Mode Output Ytterbium Fiber LasersManufacturingPrintingConsumerMedical DevicesMicroelectronicsDefense•            Engraving
    of printing rolls  and plates•            Stent
    cutting•            Welding•            Ceramic
    scribing•            Optical
    trapping of cells•            Cutting



Long Pulse Ytterbium Fiber LasersManufacturingAerospaceMedical•            Welding•            Drilling•            Medical
    device welding



Diode LasersManufacturingComputersAerospaceMedicalDefense•            Welding
    and bending of disk drive flexure•            Plastic
    welding•            Urology
    and dental•            Optical
    pumping



Erbium Fiber LasersMedicalManufacturingAerospaceRapid PrototypingScientific ResearchCommunications•            Skin
    rejuvenation and stretch mark removal•            Pumping
    of crystal lasers•            Photonic
    Doppler velocimetry•            Interferometry•            Remote
    sensing•            Non-wireline
    communications



Tunable, Ytterbium,Erbium andThulium Fiber LasersScientific ResearchMedicalInstrumentation•            Spectroscopy•            Optical
    fiber and component characterization•            Component
    stress-testing•            Diagnostic
    equipment



Pulsed Erbium FiberLasersAerospaceManufacturingScientific Research•            Obstacle
    detection•            LIDAR
    and 3-D mapping•            Atmospheric
    and remote sensing



Thulium Fiber LasersAerospaceManufacturingScientific ResearchMedical•            Optical
    pumping of lasers•            Pollution
    sensing•            Medical
    treatments•            Micromachining
    of plastics



Raman Fiber LasersCommunicationsScientific Research•            Distributed
    Raman amplification•            Remote
    amplifier pumping•            Optical
    pumping of lasers



Picosecond Pulsed LasersScientific ResearchManufacturing•            Hole
    drilling•            Memory
    repair



Green Fiber LasersSemiconductorConsumerMedical•            LCD
    display processing•            Scribing•            Marking







Product FamilyPrimary MarketsRepresentative
    ApplicationsAmplifiersErbium Fiber AmplifiersBroadband AccessCable TVDWDMInstrumentationScientific Research•            Telephony,
    video on demand  and high-speed internet•            Ultra-long-haul
    transmission•            Non-wireline
    optical communications•            Coherent
    and spectral beam combining•            High-power
    component testingRaman Fiber AmplifiersDWDMInstrumentationScientific Research•            Distributed
    Raman amplification•            Remote
    amplifier pumping•            Repeaterless
    submarine systems•            WDM
    Raman amplifiersCommunications SystemsDWDM•            200Km
    to 400Km long-span transmissions•            2.5
    and 10 gbit/second transmissionsYtterbium Fiber AmplifiersScientific ResearchLife Sciences•            Coherent
    and spectral beam combining•            Detection
    and sensing systems•            Non-linear
    frequency conversion





Materials
    Processing



The most significant materials processing applications for fiber
    lasers are marking, printing, welding and cutting. Other
    applications include micromachining, surface treatment,
    drilling, soldering, annealing, rapid prototyping and
    laser-assisted machining.



Marking, Engraving and Printing
    Applications.With the increasing need for source
    traceability, component identification and product tracking as a
    means of reducing product liability and preventing
    falsification, as well as the demand for modern robotic
    production systems, industrial manufacturers are increasingly
    demanding marking systems capable of applying serialized
    alphanumeric, graphic or bar code identifications directly onto
    their manufactured components. Laser engraving is similar to
    marking but forms deeper grooves in the material. In contrast to
    conventional acid etching and ink-based technologies, lasers can
    mark a wide variety of metal and non-metal materials, such as
    ceramic, glass and plastic surfaces, at high speeds and without
    contact by changing the surface structure of the material or by
    engraving. Laser marking systems can be easily integrated into a
    customer’s production process and do not subject the item
    being marked to mechanical stress.



In the semiconductor industry, lasers typically are used to mark
    wafers and integrated circuits. In the electronics industry,
    lasers typically are used to mark electrical components such as
    contactors and relays, printed circuit boards and keyboards.
    With the increase in marking speed in the past few years, the
    cost of laser marking has decreased. In the photovoltaic (solar
    panel) industry, pulsed lasers increasingly are used to remove
    materials and to scribe (cut) solar cells. The high beam
    quality, increased peak output powers, flexible fiber delivery
    and competitive price of fiber lasers have accelerated the
    adoption of fiber lasers in these low-power applications.



Historically, the printing industry has depended upon
    silver-halide films and chemicals to engrave printing plates.
    This chemical engraving process requires several time-consuming
    steps. In recent years, we have worked closely with OEMs in the
    printing industry to employ fiber lasers for alternative“computer-to-plate,”or CTP, processes. As a result, our ytterbium fiber lasers are
    now widely used for CTP printing, an environmentally friendly
    process that saves production time by writing directly to plates
    and greatly reduces chemical waste.



Welding Applications.Laser welding offers
    several important advantages over conventional welding
    technology as it is non-contact, easy to automate, provides high
    process speed and results in narrow-seamed, high quality welds
    that generally require little or no post-processing machining.
    Parts can be accurately machined before welding because laser
    welding does not overly heat or otherwise damage or distort the
    material being processed. The high beam quality of our fiber
    lasers coupled with high CW power offers deep





penetration welding as well as shallow conduction mode welding.
    High modulation frequencies offer very high throughput in pulsed
    applications. In addition, fiber lasers can be focused to a
    small spot with extremely long focal lengths, enabling remote
    welding “on the fly,” a flexible method of
    three-dimensional welding in which the laser beam is positioned
    by a robot-guided scanner. Such remote welding stations equipped
    with fiber lasers are used for welding door panels and the
    multiple welding of spot and lap welds over the entire auto body
    frame. Typically, mid to high-power ytterbium fiber lasers and
    long pulse quasi-continuous wave ytterbium fiber lasers are used
    in welding applications.



Cutting Applications.Laser-based cutting
    technology has several advantages compared to alternative
    technologies. Laser cutting is fast, flexible, and highly
    precise and can be used to cut complex contours on flat, tubular
    or three-dimensional materials. The laser source can be
    programmed to process many different kinds of materials such as
    steel, aluminum, brass, copper, glass, ceramic and plastic at
    various thicknesses. Laser cutting technology is a non-contact
    process that is easy to integrate into an automated production
    line and is not subject to wear of the cutting medium. We sell
    low, mid and high-power ytterbium fiber lasers for laser
    cutting. The operating wavelength, high beam quality, wide
    operating power range, power stability and small spot size are
    some of the qualities offered by fiber lasers for most cutting
    applications.



Advanced
    Applications



Our fiber lasers and amplifiers are utilized by commercial firms
    and by academic and government institutions worldwide for
    manufacturing of commercial systems and for research in advanced
    technologies and products. These markets may use specialty
    products developed by us or commercial versions of our products.



Directed Energy.Our high-power fiber lasers
    and amplifiers have been used in variety of demonstrations.



Obstacle Warning and Mapping.Our products are
    used aboard aircraft for obstacle warning and3-dimensionalmapping of earth surfaces.



Special Projects.Due to the high power,
    compactness, performance, portability, ruggedness and electrical
    efficiency of our fiber lasers and amplifiers, we sell our
    commercial products for government research and projects. These
    include materials testing, ordnance destruction, coherent beam
    combining, advanced communications and research.



Research and Development.Our products are
    used in a variety of applications for research and development
    by scientists and industrial researchers, including for example
    atom trapping. In addition, our lasers and amplifiers are used
    to design, test and characterize components and systems in a
    variety of markets and applications.



Optical Pumping and Harmonic
    Generation.Several types of our lasers are used
    to optically pump other solid-state lasers and for harmonic
    generation and parametric converters to support research in
    sensing, medical and other scientific research in the infrared
    and visible wavelength domains. Our lasers are used as a power
    source for these other lasers. Green visible lasers are used to
    pump titanium sapphire lasers. Visible lasers can be used in
    optical displays, planetariums and light shows.



Optical Communication.We provide high-power
    EDFAs and ytterbium fiber amplifiers for deployment in bothpoint-to-pointandpoint-to-multipointfree space optical networks. These networks permit
    communications between two or more points on land or in the sky
    without the use of fiber optic lines or radio or microwaves.



Remote Sensing.Our products are used in light
    detection and ranging, also called LIDAR, a laser technique for
    remote sensing. Optical fiber can be used as a sensor for
    measuring changes in temperature, pressure and gas concentration
    in oil wells, atmospheric and pollution measurements and seismic
    exploration.





Communications



We design and manufacture a DWDM transport system with varying
    output power and wavelengths and a full range of fiber
    amplifiers and Raman pump lasers that enhance data transmission
    in broadband access and DWDM optical networks. We are leveraging
    our high-power diode and fiber technology through the
    qualification and sale of high-value integrated solutions for
    network suppliers.



DWDM.DWDM is a technology that expands the
    capacity of optical networks, allowing service providers to
    extend the life of existing fiber networks and reduce operating
    and capital costs by maximizing bandwidth capacity. We provide a
    broad range of high-power products for DWDM applications
    including EDFAs and Raman lasers. We provide a DWDM transport
    system that offers service providers and private network
    operators a simple, flexible, optical layer solution scalable
    from 8 to 40 channels that operates at 10 gigabits per second
    per channel. We also have introduced a DWDM system capable of
    wavelengths operating at 40 gigabits per second per channel with
    OTN multiplexing capabilities.



Broadband Access.The delivery to subscribers
    of television programming and Internet- based information and
    communication services is converging, driven by advances in IP
    technology and by changes in the regulatory and competitive
    environment. Fiber optic lines offer connection speeds of up to
    1 gigabit per second, or 100 times faster than digital
    subscriber lines (DSL) or cable links. We offer a series of
    specialty multi-port EDFAs and cable TV nodes and transmitters
    that support different types of passive optical network
    architectures, enabling high speed data, voice, video on demand
    and high definition TV. We provide an EDFA that supports up to
    64 ports, which allows service providers to support a high
    number of customers in a small space, reducing overall power
    consumption and network cost. End users for our products include
    communications network operators for video wavelength division
    multiplexing overlay solutions, operators of metro and long-haul
    networks for DWDM and amplification solutions, as well as cable
    and multiple system operators for optical amplification
    solutions.



Medical



We sell our commercial fiber and diode lasers to OEMs that
    incorporate our products into their medical laser systems.
    Continuous wave and pulsed lasers from 1 to 150 watts and diode
    laser systems can be used in medical and biomedical
    applications. Aesthetic applications addressed by lasers include
    skin rejuvenation, skin resurfacing and stretch mark removal.
    Purchasers use our diode lasers in dental, skin tightening and
    fat removal procedures. Surgical applications include prostate
    surgery. Fiber lasers have the ability to fine-tune optical
    penetration depth and absorption characteristics and can be used
    for ear, nose and throat, urology, gynecology and other surgical
    procedures.



Technology



Our products are based on our proprietary technology platform
    that we have developed and refined since our formation. The
    following technologies are key elements in our products.



Specialty
    Optical Fibers



We have extensive expertise in the disciplines and techniques
    that form the basis for the multi-clad active and passive
    optical fibers used in our products. Active optical fibers form
    the laser cavity or gain medium in which lasing or amplification
    of light occurs in our products. Passive optical fibers deliver
    the optical energy created in our products. Our active fibers
    consist of an inner core that is infused with the appropriate
    rare earth ion, such as ytterbium, erbium or thulium, and outer
    cores of un-doped glass having different indices of refraction.
    We believe that our large portfolio of specialty active and
    passive optical fibers has a number of advantages as compared to
    other commercially available optical fibers. These advantages
    include higher concentrations of rare earth ions, fibers that
    will not degrade at the high power levels over the useful life
    of the product, high lasing efficiency, ability to achieve
    single-mode outputs at high powers, ability to withstand high
    optical energies and temperatures and scalable side-pumping
    capability.





Semiconductor
    Diode Laser Processing and Packaging Technologies



Another key element of our technology platform is that we use
    multiple multi-mode, or broad area, single-emitter diodes rather
    than diode bars or stacks as a pump source. We believe that
    multi-mode single-emitter diodes are the most efficient and
    reliable pumping source presently available, surpassing diode
    bars and stacks in efficiency, brightness and reliability.
    Single-emitter diodes have substantially reduced cooling
    requirements and typically have estimated lifetimes of more than
    100,000 hours at high operating currents, compared to
    typical lifetimes of 10,000 to 20,000 hours for diode bars.



We developed advanced molecular beam epitaxy techniques to grow
    alumina indium gallium arsenide wafers for our diodes. This
    method yields high-quality optoelectronic material for
    low-defect density and high uniformity of optoelectronic
    parameters. In addition, we have developed numerous proprietary
    wafer processes and testing and qualification procedures in
    order to create a high energy output in a reliable and
    high-power diode. We package our diodes in hermetically sealed
    pump modules in which the diodes are combined with an optical
    fiber output. Characteristics such as the ability of the package
    to dissipate heat produced by the diode and withstand vibration,
    shock, high temperature, humidity and other environmental
    conditions are critical to the reliability and efficiency of the
    products.



Specialty
    Components and Combining Techniques



We developed a wide range of advanced optical components that
    are capable of handling high optical power levels and contribute
    to the superior performance, efficiency, reliability and
    uniqueness of our products. In addition to fibers and diodes,
    our optical component portfolio includes fiber gratings,
    isolators and combiners. We also developed special methods and
    expertise in splicing fibers together with low optical energy
    loss and on-line loss testing. We believe that our internal
    development and manufacturing of key optical components allows
    us to lower our manufacturing costs and improve product
    performance.



Side
    Pumping of Fibers and Fiber Block Technologies



Our technology platform allows us to efficiently combine a large
    number of multi-mode single-emitter semiconductor diodes with
    our active optical fibers that are used in all of our products.
    A key element of this technology is that we pump our fiber
    lasers through the cladding surrounding the active core. We
    splice our specialty active optical fibers with other optical
    components and package them in a sealed box, which we call a
    fiber block. The fiber blocks are compact and eliminate the risk
    of contamination or misalignment due to mechanical vibrations
    and shocks as well as temperature or humidity variations. Our
    design is scalable and modular, permitting us to make products
    with high output power by coupling a large number of diodes with
    fiber blocks, which can be combined in parallel and serially.



High-Stress
    Testing



We employ high-stress techniques in testing components and final
    products that help increase reliability and accelerate product
    development. For example, we test all of our diodes with high
    current and temperatures to accelerate aging. We also have built
    a large database of diode test results that allows us to predict
    the estimated lifetime of our diodes. This testing allows us to
    eliminate defective diodes prior to further assembly and thus
    increase reliability.



Customers



We sell our products globally to OEMs, system integrators and
    end users in a wide range of diverse markets who have the
    in-house engineering capability to integrate our products into
    their own systems. We have hundreds of customers worldwide. Our
    end markets include materials processing (comprised of general
    manufacturing, automotive, heavy industry, aerospace, consumer
    products and medical device manufacturing, photovoltaic
    semiconductor and electronics customers), advanced applications
    (comprised of commercial companies, universities, research
    entities and government entities), communications (comprised of
    system integrators, utilities and municipalities) and medical
    (medical laser systems manufacturers and researchers).





We believe that our customer and end-market diversification
    minimizes dependence on any single industry or group of
    customers.



The following table shows the allocation of our net sales (in
    thousands) among our principal markets:



Year Ended December 31,201020092008Materials Processing$252,01484.2%$140,86475.8%$187,72081.9%Advanced Applications25,1968.426,55714.324,67010.8Communications14,0204.710,8675.812,9045.6Medical8,0262.77,6064.13,7821.7Total$299,256100.0%$185,894100.0%$229,076100.0%





None of our customers accounted for 10% or more of our net sales
    for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 or 2008.



Our net sales (in thousands) were derived from customers in the
    following geographic regions:



Year Ended December 31,201020092008North America(1)$61,70620.6%$45,66824.6%$52,01822.7%Europe112,45637.670,41337.994,07741.1Asia and Australia124,25441.566,10035.577,58233.9Rest of World8400.33,7132.05,3992.3Total$299,256100.0%$185,894100.0%$229,076100.0%









(1)The substantial majority of sales in North America are to
    customers in the United States.



Backlog



At December 31, 2010, our backlog of orders (generally
    scheduled for shipment within one year) was approximately
    $171.6 million compared to $68.1 million at
    December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, our backlog
    included $98.6 million of orders with firm shipment dates
    and $73.0 million of frame agreements that we expect to
    ship within one year, compared to $47.8 million of orders
    with firm shipment dates and $20.3 million of frame
    agreements at December 31, 2009. Frame agreements generally
    are agreements without committed shipment dates. Orders used to
    compute backlog are generally cancelable without substantial
    penalties. Historically, the rate of cancellation experienced by
    us has not been significant. We manage the risk of cancellation
    by establishing the right to charge a cancellation fee that
    generally covers a portion of the purchase price, any materials
    and development costs incurred prior to the order being
    cancelled. Our ability to enforce this right depends on many
    factors including, but not limited to, the customer’s
    requested length of delay, the number of other outstanding
    orders with the customer and our ability to quickly convert the
    cancelled order to another sale.



We anticipate shipping a substantial majority of the present
    backlog during fiscal year 2011. However, our backlog at any
    given date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any
    future period.



Sales,
    Marketing and Support



We market our products internationally primarily through our
    direct sales force and also through agreements with independent
    sales representatives and distributors. We have sales offices in
    the United States, Germany, Russia, Italy, China, Japan, South
    Korea, India, the United Kingdom, Singapore and France. Our
    independent sales representatives and distributors are located
    in the United States, Russia, Japan, Brazil, Mexico and other
    parts of the world. Only one of these arrangements is on an
    exclusive basis. Foreign sales to customers are generally priced
    in local currencies and are therefore subject to currency
    exchange fluctuations.





We maintain a customer support and field service staff in our
    major markets. We work closely with customers, customer groups
    and independent representatives to service equipment, train
    customers to use our products and explore additional
    applications for our technologies. We have materials processing
    application centers in the United States, Germany, Russia,
    China, Italy, Japan and South Korea, which we use to demonstrate
    our products and develop new applications. We may expand our
    support and field service, particularly in locations where
    customer concentration or volume requires local service
    capabilities. We repair products at our facilities or at
    customer sites.



We typically provide one to three-year parts and service
    warranties on our lasers and amplifiers. Most of our sales
    offices provide support to customers in their respective
    geographic areas. Warranty reserves have generally been
    sufficient to cover product warranty repair and replacement
    costs.



Manufacturing



Vertical integration is one of our core business strategies
    through which we control our proprietary processes and
    technologies as well as the supply of key components and
    assemblies. We believe that our vertically integrated business
    model gives us the following advantages:



•maintaining a technological lead over competitors;•reducing component and final product costs compared to market
    prices available to competitors;•ensuring access to critical components, enabling us to better
    meet customer demands;•controlling performance, quality and consistency; and•enabling rapid development and deployment of new products and
    technologies.



Our vertically integrated manufacturing operations include
    optical preform making, specialty fiber drawing, semiconductor
    wafer growth, diode processing and packaging, specialty optical
    component manufacturing, fiber block and fiber module assembly
    for different power units, software and electronics development,
    final assembly, as well as testing, tool manufacturing and
    automated production systems. Over the last several years, we
    added additional production capabilities, including three
    multi-wafer growth reactors, diode test stations, fiber pre-form
    and fiber drawing equipment, low, mid and high-power production
    and testing, in order to increase our capacity as well as reduce
    the risks associated with our production process.



We operate our own semiconductor foundry for the production of
    the multi-mode single-emitter diodes. Diodes are the pumps that
    are used as the light source in each device we make. We also
    process, package and extensively test all of our diodes. Because
    pump diodes represent a significant component cost of the final
    laser or amplifier, we have chosen to develop internal
    manufacturing capabilities for diodes. As a result of our high
    volume production levels of pump diodes, proprietary processes
    and use of limited chip designs, we have been able to increase
    yields, lower component costs and assure high quality. We also
    design, manufacture and optimize many of our own test
    instruments, diode test racks, robotic and automated assembly
    tools and machines.



We developed these proprietary components, manufacturing tools,
    equipment and techniques over many years in an effort to address
    the major issues that had been inhibiting the development of
    fiber laser technology and to provide products that
    differentiate us from our competitors. We believe that the
    proprietary components, manufacturing tools, equipment,
    techniques and software utilized in all of our product lines
    provide extensive barriers to potential competitors. Generally,
    we do not sell our proprietary components to third parties,
    except that in 2008, we started selling our diodes to third
    parties. Using our technology platform, we configure standard
    products based upon each customer’s specifications. Through
    our vertically integrated manufacturing operations, we can
    develop, test and produce new products and configurations with
    higher performance and reliability and in less time than by
    working with external vendors. We have developed proprietary
    testing methodologies that allow us to develop higher power
    components and products in short





periods of time, enable us to introduce products to the market
    more quickly, capitalize on new opportunities and provide
    superior service to our customers.



Our in-house manufacturing generally includes only those
    operations and components that are critical to the protection of
    our intellectual property, the reduction of our costs or the
    achievement of performance and quality standards. We purchase
    from vendors common and specialized mechanical, electrical and
    optical parts and raw materials, such as printed circuit boards,
    wafer substrates and various optical components.



Research
    and Development



We have extensive research and development experience in laser
    materials, fiber and optoelectronic components. We have
    assembled a team of scientists and engineers with specialized
    experience and extensive knowledge in fiber lasers and
    amplifiers, critical components, testing and manufacturing
    process design.



We focus our research and development efforts on designing and
    introducing new and improved standard and customized products
    and the mass production of components that go into our products.
    In addition to our cladding-pumped specialty fiber platform, we
    have core competencies in high-power multi-mode semiconductor
    laser diodes, diode packaging, specialty active and passive
    optical fibers, high-performance optical components, fiber gain
    blocks and fiber modules, as well as splicing and combining
    techniques and high-stress test methods. Our research and
    development efforts are aided by our vertical integration and
    our proprietary high-stress testing techniques that result in
    accelerated development cycles. The strategy of developing our
    proprietary components has allowed us to leverage our optical
    experience and large volume requirements to lower the cost of
    our products. We concentrate our research and development
    efforts on advancements in performance as well as capacity to
    hold and produce higher optical power levels.



Our research and development efforts are also directed at
    expanding our product line by increasing power levels, improving
    beam quality and electrical efficiency, decreasing the size of
    our products and lowering the cost per watt. We also are engaged
    in research projects to expand the spectral range of products
    that we offer. Our team of experienced scientists and engineers
    work closely with many of our customers to develop and introduce
    custom products that address specific applications and
    performance requirements.



We incurred research and development costs of approximately
    $19.2 million in 2010, $18.5 million in 2009 and
    $15.8 million in 2008. We plan to continue our commitment
    to research and development and to introduce new products,
    systems and complementary products that would allow us to
    maintain our competitive position. See Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition of Results of Operations.”



Intellectual
    Property



We seek to protect our proprietary technology primarily through
    U.S. and foreign laws affording protection for trade
    secrets, and to seek U.S. and foreign patent, copyright and
    trademark protection of our products and processes where
    appropriate. Historically, we relied primarily on trade secrets,
    technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information
    relating to our product development and manufacturing
    activities. We seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary
    information, in part, by requiring our employees to enter into
    agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and
    the assignment to us of rights to inventions that they make
    while we employ them. We also enter into non-disclosure
    agreements with our consultants and suppliers to protect
    confidential information delivered to them. We believe that our
    vertical integration, including our long experience in making a
    wide range of specialty and high-power capacity components, as
    well as our technology platform make it difficult for others to
    reverse engineer our products.



We have increased our efforts to expand our patent portfolio. We
    now have over 100 patents issued and over 60 pending patent
    applications in the United States relating to optical fiber
    lasers, amplifiers, bulk optics, semiconductors, and laser and
    telecommunications systems. We also have patents and patent
    applications in certain other countries. In February 2008, we
    purchased a portfolio of photonics patents from British
    Telecommunications plc in the fields of optical fiber lasers and
    amplifiers, semiconductor devices, integrated optics, fiber
    gratings, high-speed systems and optical networking.
    Intellectual property rights, including those





that we own and those of others, involve significant risks. See
    Item 1A, “Risk Factors-Our inability to Protect Our
    Intellectual Property and Proprietary Technologies Could Result
    in the Unauthorized Use of Our Technologies by Third Parties,
    Hurt Our Competitive Position and Adversely Affect Our Operating
    Results.”



Competition



Our markets are competitive and characterized by rapidly
    changing technology and continuously evolving customer
    requirements. We believe that the primary competitive factors in
    our markets are:



•product performance and reliability;•quality and service support;•price and value to the customer;•ability to manufacture and deliver products on a timely basis;•ability to achieve qualification for and integration into OEM
    systems;•ability to meet customer specifications; and•ability to respond quickly to market demand and technological
    developments.







In the communications market, our principal competitors are
    manufacturers of mid-power fiber amplifiers and DWDM systems,
    such as Oclaro Inc., the Scientific-Atlanta division of Cisco
    Systems, Inc. (Scientific-Atlanta), Emcore Corporation, JDS
    Uniphase Corporation, Huawei Corporation and MPB Communications
    Inc. We believe that we compete favorably with other high-power
    fiber amplifier producers with respect to price, product
    performance and output power. The fiber amplifier market is more
    established than the fiber laser market and technological change
    has not occurred as rapidly as it has in the case of fiber
    lasers.



Many of our competitors are larger than we are and have
    substantially greater financial, managerial and technical
    resources, more extensive distribution and service networks,
    greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed
    customer bases than we do.



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    1,760 full-time employees, including 140 in research and
    development, 1,370 in manufacturing operations, 100 in sales,
    service and marketing, and 150 in general and administrative
    functions. Of our total full-time employees at our principal
    facilities, approximately 490 were in the United States, 600
    were in Germany, 500 were in Russia and 60 were in China. We
    have never experienced a work stoppage and none of our employees
    is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that
    our current relations with our employees are good.





Government
    Regulation



Regulatory
    Compliance



The majority of our laser and amplifier products sold in the
    United States are classified as Class IV Laser Products
    under the applicable rules and regulations of the Center for
    Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) of the U.S. Food and
    Drug Administration. The same classification system is applied
    in the European markets. Safety rules are formulated with
    “Deutsche Industrie Norm” (i.e., German Industrial
    Standards) or ISO standards, which are internationally
    harmonized.



CDRH regulations generally require a self-certification
    procedure pursuant to which a manufacturer must submit a filing
    to the CDRH with respect to each product incorporating a laser
    device, make periodic reports of sales and purchases and comply
    with product labeling standards, product safety and design
    features and informational requirements. Our products
    applications can result in injury to human tissue if directed at
    an individual or otherwise misused. The CDRH is empowered to
    seek fines and other remedies for violations of their
    requirements. We believe that our products are in material
    compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to the
    manufacture of laser devices.



Environmental
    Regulation



Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and
    international laws governing the environment, including those
    relating to the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product
    composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous
    and toxic materials. We believe that our operations are in
    material compliance with applicable environmental protection
    laws and regulations.



Although we believe that our safety procedures for using,
    handling, storing and disposing of such materials comply with
    the standards required by federal and state laws and
    regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of
    accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the
    event of such an accident involving such materials, we could be
    liable for damages and such liability could exceed the amount of
    our liability insurance coverage and the resources of our
    business.



Availability
    of Reports



Our annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-Kand any amendments to such reports are available free of charge
    on our web site atwww.ipgphotonics.comas soon as
    reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically
    filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (www.sec.gov). We will also provide electronic
    or paper copies of such reports free of charge, upon request
    made to our Corporate Secretary.



