ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our
Company

IPG Photonics Corporation (“IPG,” the “Company,” the “Registrant,” “we”,
“us” or “our”) is the leading developer and manufacturer of a broad line of high-performance fiber lasers, fiber amplifiers and diode lasers that are used in numerous applications in diverse end markets. Fiber lasers are a type
of laser that combines the advantages of semiconductor diodes, such as long life and high efficiency, with the high amplification and precise beam qualities of specialty optical fibers to deliver superior performance, reliability and usability at a
generally lower cost compared to competing lasers.

Our diverse lines of low, mid and high-power lasers and amplifiers are
used in materials processing, advanced, communications and medical applications. We sell our products globally to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, system integrators and end users. We market our products internationally primarily through
our direct sales force. We have sales offices in the United States, Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Japan, China, South Korea, Singapore, India and Russia.

We design and manufacture most of our key components used in our finished products, from semiconductor diodes to optical fibers and other components, finished fiber lasers and amplifiers. We also
manufacture certain complementary products used with our lasers, including optical delivery cables, fiber couplers, beam switches, optical heads and chillers. Our vertically integrated operations allow us to reduce manufacturing costs, ensure access
to critical components, rapidly develop and integrate advanced products and protect our proprietary technology.







We are listed on the Nasdaq Global Market (ticker: IPGP). We began our operations in Russia
in 1990 and we were incorporated in Delaware in 1998. Our principal executive offices are located at 50 Old Webster Road, Oxford, Massachusetts 01540, and our telephone number is (508) 373-1100.

Industry Background

Conventional Laser Technologies

Since the laser was invented over 50 years ago, laser technology has revolutionized a broad range of applications and products in various industries, including general manufacturing, automotive, heavy
industry, consumer products, electronics, semiconductors, research, medical and communications. Lasers provide flexible, non-contact and high-speed ways to process and treat various materials. They are incorporated into manufacturing and other
systems by OEMs, system integrators and end users. For a wide variety of applications, lasers provide superior performance and a more cost-effective solution than non-laser technologies. Also, they are widely used to transmit large volumes of data
in optical communications systems, in various medical applications and in test and measurement systems.

Lasers emit an
intense light beam that can be focused on a small area, causing metals and other materials to melt, vaporize or change their character. These properties are utilized in applications requiring very high-power densities, such as cutting, welding,
marking, engraving, drilling, cladding, annealing and other materials processing procedures. Lasers are well-suited for imaging and inspection applications, and the ability to confine laser light to narrow wavelengths makes them particularly
effective in medical and sensing applications. A laser works by converting electrical energy to optical energy. In a laser, an energy source excites or pumps a lasing medium, which converts the energy from the source into an emission consisting of
particles of light, called photons, at a particular wavelength.

Historically, CO2gas lasers and crystal lasers have been the two principal laser types
used in materials processing and many other applications. They are named for the materials used to create the lasing action. A CO2laser produces light by electrically stimulating a gas-filled tube. A CO2laser delivers the beam through free space using mirrors to provide
direction. A crystal laser uses an arc lamp, pulsed flash lamp, or diode stack or array to optically pump a special crystal. The most common crystal lasers use yttrium aluminum garnet, or YAG, crystals infused with neodymium or ytterbium. Some
crystal lasers also use mirrors in free space to deliver the beam or direct the beam through fiber optics.

Introduction
of Fiber Lasers

Fiber lasers use semiconductor diodes as the light source to pump specialty optical fibers, which are
infused with rare earth ions. These fibers are called active fibers and are comparable in diameter to a human hair. The laser emission is created within optical fibers and delivered through a flexible optical fiber cable. As a result of their
different design and components, fiber lasers are more electrically efficient, productive, reliable, robust and portable, and easier to operate than conventional lasers. In addition, fiber lasers free the end users from fine mechanical adjustments
and the high maintenance costs that are typical for conventional lasers.

Although low-power fiber lasers have existed for
approximately four decades, their increased recent adoption has been driven primarily by the significant scaling of output powers and the reductions in cost that we achieved over the last two decades, as well as their superior performance compared
with conventional lasers. We have successfully increased output power levels by developing improved optical components such as active fibers that have increased their power capacities and improved their performance. Fiber lasers now offer output
powers that exceed those of conventional lasers in many categories. Also, semiconductor diodes historically have represented the majority of the cost of fiber lasers. The high cost of diodes meant that fiber lasers could not compete with
conventional lasers on price and limited their use to high value-added applications. Over the last several years, however, our semiconductor diodes have become more affordable and reliable due, in part, to







substantial advancements in semiconductor diode technology and increased production volumes. Also, component prices for fiber lasers have decreased as production volumes have risen, making fiber
lasers cost-competitive and generally priced lower than competing lasers. As a result, the average cost per watt of output power has decreased dramatically over the last decade.

Because of these improvements, our fiber lasers can now effectively compete with conventional lasers over a wide range of output powers
and applications, and we are developing new applications in which lasers have not been widely used before, for example in natural resource extraction. As a pioneer in the development and commercialization of fiber lasers, we have contributed to many
advancements in fiber laser technology and products.

Advantages of Fiber Lasers over Conventional Lasers

We believe that fiber lasers provide a combination of benefits that include:



•Superior Performance.Fiber lasers provide high beam quality over the entire power range. In most conventional laser
solutions, the beam quality is sensitive to output power, while in fiber lasers, the output beam is virtually non-divergent over a wide power range. A non-divergent beam enables higher levels of precision, increased power densities and the ability
to deliver the beam over greater distances to where processing can be completed. The superior beam quality and greater intensity of a fiber laser’s beam allow tasks to be accomplished more rapidly, with lower-power units and with greater
flexibility than comparable conventional lasers.



•Lower Cost.Fiber lasers offer strong value to customers because of their generally lower required maintenance costs,
high reliability and energy efficiency. Many high-power lasers have lower acquisition costs. Fiber lasers are cheaper to operate due to their lower energy usage, lower required maintenance costs and better processing speeds. Fiber lasers convert
electrical energy to optical energy approximately 2 to 3 times more efficiently than diode-pumped YAG lasers, approximately 3 times more efficiently than conventional CO2lasers and approximately 15 to 30 times more efficiently than lamp-pumped YAG lasers. Because fiber lasers are much more
energy-efficient and place lower levels of thermal stress on their internal components, they have substantially lower cooling requirements compared to those of conventional lasers, which also improves overall energy efficiency. Fiber lasers have
lower to no maintenance costs due to the high performance and long life of our single-emitter diodes, fiber optics and other optical components, which can be used for up to 100,000 hours without replacement. The higher power density of the fiber
laser beam also allows for higher processing speeds in many applications, which increases the operating efficiencies and reduces customer costs on a per-part basis.



•Ease of Use.Many features of fiber lasers make them easier to operate, maintain and integrate into laser-based systems
as compared to conventional lasers. There are no moving parts in the fiber laser so they do not require adjustments of internal components.



•Compact Size and Portability.Fiber lasers are typically smaller and lighter in weight than conventional lasers, saving
valuable floor space. While conventional lasers are delicate due to the precise alignment of mirrors, fiber lasers are more durable and able to perform reliably in variable environments both inside and outside a factory setting.



•Choice of Wavelengths and Precise Control of Beam.The design of fiber lasers generally provides a broad range of
wavelength choices, allowing users to select the precise wavelength that best matches their application and materials. Because the beam is delivered through fiber optics, it can be directed to the work area over longer distances without loss of beam
quality.

Fiber amplifiers are similar in design to fiber lasers, use many of the same components, such as
semiconductor diodes and specialty optical fibers, and provide many of the same advantages in the applications that require amplification.







Notwithstanding the benefits offered by fiber lasers, there remain
applications and processes where conventional laser technologies may provide superior performance with respect to particular features. For example, crystal lasers can provide higher peak power pulses and fiber lasers do not generate the deep
ultraviolet light that is used for photolithography in many semiconductor applications. In addition, CO2lasers operate at wavelengths that are optimal for use on many non-metallic materials, including plastics.

Our Competitive Strengths

We believe that our key competitive strengths
position us to take advantage of opportunities to displace traditional lasers and enable use of fiber lasers in new applications. Our key strengths and competitive advantages include:

World’s Leading Producer of Fiber Laser Technology.We are the world’s largest manufacturer of
fiber lasers, which is a technologically advanced laser technology that provides superior electrical efficiency, superior beam quality, lower maintenance cost, longer life, more flexibility and higher productivity than other laser technologies. As a
pioneer and technology leader in fiber lasers, we have built leading positions in our various end markets with a large and diverse customer base. Based on our leadership position, we are able to leverage our scale to lower costs for our customers
and drive the proliferation of fiber lasers in existing and new applications. Our technology platform is modular, scalable and robust. Our fiber lasers offer higher continuous-wave, or CW, output powers than any other commercial laser in the market.
We rely on several key proprietary technologies including pumping technology, manufacturing of fiber to withstand the high output power of our lasers, gain blocks and optics. In addition, we have developed a wide range of advanced proprietary
optical components that contribute to the superior performance and reliability of our products.

Vertically Integrated
Development and Manufacturing.We develop and manufacture all of our key high-volume specialty components, including semiconductor diodes, active fibers, passive fibers and specialty optical components. Our proprietary
components are capable of handling the stress of the high optical powers from our products and we believe many of them exceed the performance of commercially available components. We believe that our vertical integration and our high-volume
production enhances our ability to meet customer requirements, accelerate development, manage costs, improve component yields and protect our intellectual property, while maintaining high performance and quality standards.

Breadth and Depth of Expertise.Since the founding of our company in 1990, our core business has been
developing, designing, manufacturing and marketing advanced fiber lasers and amplifiers. We have extensive know-how in materials sciences, which enables us to make our specialty optical fibers, semiconductor diodes and other critical components. We
also have expertise in optical, electrical, mechanical and semiconductor engineering, which we use to develop and manufacture our proprietary components, products and systems.







Diverse Customer Base, End Markets and Applications.Our
diverse customer base, end markets and applications provide us with many growth opportunities. In 2011, we shipped more than 15,000 units to over 1,700 customers worldwide, with no single customer representing more than 8% of our sales. Our products
are used in a variety of applications and end markets worldwide. Our principal end markets and representative applications within those markets include:



Materials ProcessingGeneral manufacturing•      Welding, hybrid welding and brazing•      Cutting•      Marking, engraving and printing•      Annealing and hardening•      Prototyping, cladding and strippingAutomotive•      High-strength steel cutting and welding•      Welding tailored metal blanks, frames, seats and
transmissions•      Brazing and welding of auto
framesHeavy industry•      Hardening and welding pipes in nuclear, wind
turbine and pipeline industries•      Welding and cutting thick
plates for ships and rail cars•      Drilling for natural
resourcesAerospace•      Welding titanium air
frames•      Cladding parts•      Percussion drilling
of partsConsumer•      Electronics and credit card marking•      Cutting and marking parts for electronics and medical
devices•      Cutting and welding parts for consumer products and
appliances•      Stent and pacemaker
manufacturingSemiconductor and electronics•      Computer disk manufacturing and
texturing•      Photovoltaic manufacturing•      Wafer processing, memory repair and trimAdvanced Applications•      Obstacle warning and light detecting and
ranging•      Special projects and research•      Materials destruction testing and sensingCommunications•      Broadband — fiber to premises•      Broadband — cable video signal transport•      Metro and long-haul wire-line DWDM transportMedical•      Skin rejuvenation and wrinkle removal•      General surgery and urology•      Dental

Broad Product Portfolio and Ability to Meet Customer Requirements.We offer
a broad range of standard and custom fiber lasers and amplifiers that operate between 0.5 and 2 microns, enabling deployment of our







products in a wide variety of applications and end markets. Our vertically integrated manufacturing and broad technology expertise enable us to design, prototype and commence high-volume
production of our products rapidly, allowing our customers to meet their time-to-market requirements. Our manufacturing scale allows us to deliver large quantities of product with short lead times.

Our Strategy

Our
objective is to maintain and extend our leadership position by pursuing the following key elements of our strategy:

Leverage Our Technology to Increase Sales.As fiber lasers become more widely accepted, we plan to leverage our position as the leader in fiber lasers and our applications
expertise to develop solutions for customers and increase our position in the broader laser market. Over the last decade, our pulsed fiber lasers have become widely accepted in laser metal marking applications and now have a leading position in
those applications. More recently, our high-power CW fiber lasers have been accepted by a growing number of laser cutting system OEMs for two- and three-dimension cutting, one of the largest laser materials processing applications. We plan to
continue to leverage our fiber laser technology by pursuing large-scale laser applications where our fiber lasers offer improved customer value and performance. Some of the more significant applications we intend to target include: (i) welding
of thick steel with our high-power lasers; (ii) micro-processing and ceramic cutting with our quasi-CW, or QCW, fiber lasers; (iii) processing of non-metals, such as plastics, with our new high-power thulium lasers; and
(iv) fine-processing, scribing and marking with our high-power green lasers. We believe that our fiber lasers will continue to displace traditional lasers in many existing applications due to their superior performance and value.

Target New Applications for Lasers and Expand into Broader Markets.We intend to expand the
use of fiber lasers into additional applications where lasers have not traditionally been used. We believe that the advantages of fiber laser technology can overcome many of the limitations that have hindered the adoption of conventional lasers in
broader industrial markets and processes. Fiber lasers enable customers to complete tasks at lower cost, faster and more efficiently than non-laser tools. Using our manufacturing scale and technology innovations, we have been successful in reducing
the cost of manufacturing with lasers, making fiber lasers a more attractive manufacturing alternative. We target applications where higher power, portability, efficiency, size and flexible fiber cable delivery can lead customers to adopt fiber
lasers instead of non-laser solutions. For example, some of our fiber lasers are displacing traditional welding techniques used in shipbuilding, pipelines and spot welding used in automobile manufacturing. In addition, certain industry trends such
as the use of high-strength steel in automotive manufacturing are driving the use of fiber lasers over other manufacturing methods such as stamping. We are working on developing new applications for fiber lasers through internal research and in
partnership with industrial institutes and other strategic alliances.

Expand Our Product
Portfolio.We plan to continue to invest in research and development to add additional wavelengths, power levels and other parameters while also improving beam quality, as well as developing new product lines and
laser-based systems. Using our core processes, we plan to expand the wavelengths at which our lasers operate. This includes ultraviolet lasers that can be used for fine-processing applications and mid-infrared lasers that can be used for medical
applications, non-metal materials processing and other novel applications. We are working to improve the output power of our green lasers for use in the semiconductor market. We will continue to focus on the development of specialized laser-based
systems to meet the specific needs of manufacturing end users whose requirements are not met by standard systems or in certain geographic areas where fiber laser systems are not currently available. We are also improving the flexibility of existing
products. For example, we have developed a 2 kW air-cooled laser for use in dry environments and an ultra-compact 1 kW fiber laser for use in applications requiring a small footprint.

Lower Our Costs Through Manufacturing Improvements and Innovation.We plan to seek further
improvements in component manufacturing processes and device assembly as well as innovation in







components and device designs to improve performance and decrease the overall cost per watt for our products. As we increase our volumes, we are better able to negotiate price reductions with
certain of our suppliers. We intend to leverage our technology and operations expertise to manufacture additional components in order to reduce costs, ensure component quality and ensure supply. In 2011, we redesigned the electronics of certain low
and mid-power products to simplify manufacturing, improve quality and decrease costs. We also decreased the cost of packaged diodes. In addition, we manufactured additional components that we had previously outsourced. These initiatives are intended
to decrease costs and allow us to further penetrate the market while sustaining profit margins. By reducing the cost per watt of our lasers and maintaining the lower operating cost of our products, we believe that we can increase laser use in
applications in which conventional lasers could not be used economically.

Expand Global Reach to Attract
Customers Worldwide.Our customers’ manufacturing operations have expanded in emerging markets and are moving to lower-cost international locations. We have increased and will continue to increase our international
sales and service locations to respond to our customers’ needs. In 2011, we opened new application development centers as well as sales and service offices in Russia, Asia and Spain. We plan to open a sales and service center in Turkey in 2012
and we are considering increasing our presence in additional countries with large manufacturing infrastructures.

Products

We design and manufacture a broad range of high-performance optical fiber-based lasers and amplifiers. We also make packaged diodes,
direct diode laser systems, communications systems and materials processing laser systems that utilize our optical fiber-based products. Many of our products are designed to be used as general-purpose energy or light sources, making them useful in
diverse applications and markets.

Our products are based on a common proprietary technology platform using many of the same
core components, such as semiconductor diodes and specialty fibers, which we configure to our customers’ specifications. Our engineers and scientists work closely with OEMs and end users to develop and customize our products for their needs.
Because of our flexible and modular product architecture, we offer products in different configurations according to the desired application, including modules, rack-mounted units and tabletop units. Our engineers and other technical experts work
directly with the customer in our application and development centers to develop and configure the optimal solution for each customer’s manufacturing requirements. We also make complementary products and components that are used with our
high-power products, such as fiber couplers, beam switches, optical beam delivery cables and chillers.

Lasers

Our laser products include low (1 to 99 watts), medium (100 to 999 watts) and high (1,000 watts and above) output
power lasers from 0.5 to 2 microns in wavelength. These lasers either may be CW, QCW or pulsed. We offer several different types of lasers, which are defined by the type of gain medium they use. These are ytterbium, erbium, thulium and Raman. We
also sell fiber pigtailed packaged diodes and fiber coupled direct diode laser systems that use semiconductor diodes rather than optical fibers as their gain medium. In addition, we offer high-energy pulsed lasers, multi-wavelength lasers, tunable
lasers, single-polarization and single-frequency lasers, as well as other versions of our products.

We believe that we
produce the highest-power solid-state lasers in the industry. Our ytterbium fiber lasers reach power levels up of to 50,000 watts. We also make single-mode output ytterbium fiber lasers with power levels of up to 10,000 watts and single-mode output
erbium and thulium fiber lasers with power levels of up to 400 watts. Our compact, durable design and integrated fiber optic beam delivery allow us to offer versatile laser energy sources and simple laser integration for complex production processes
without compromising quality, speed or power.







We also sell laser diode chips and packaged laser diodes operating at 9XX nanometers.
Recently, we started to sell our own family of high-power optical fiber delivery cables, fiber couplers, beam switches, chillers and other accessories for our fiber lasers.

IPG offers a retrofit service to replace CO2and YAG laser sources with fiber lasers in many welding, cutting, drilling and other systems, allowing customers to retain
their existing laser systems. IPG also makes active and passive laser materials and tunable lasers in the middle-infrared region.

Amplifiers

Our amplifier products range from milliwatts to up to
1,500 watts of output power from 1 to 2 microns in wavelength. We offer erbium-doped fiber amplifiers, commonly called EDFAs, Raman amplifiers and integrated communications systems that incorporate our amplifiers. These products are predominantly
deployed in broadband networks such as fiber to the home, or FTTH, fiber to the curb, or FTTC, and passive optical networks, or PON, and dense wavelength division multiplexing, or DWDM, networks. We also offer ytterbium and thulium specialty fiber
amplifiers and broadband light sources that are used in advanced applications. In addition, we sell single-frequency, linearly polarized and polarization-maintaining versions of our amplifier products. As with our fiber lasers, our fiber amplifiers
offer some of the highest output power levels and highest number of optical outputs in the industry. We believe our line of fiber amplifiers offers the best commercially available output power and performance.

Systems

Besides selling laser sources, we also offer integrated laser systems for particular geographic markets or custom-developed for a customer’s manufacturing requirements. IPG makes a welding seam
stepper and picker, which is an automated welding tool that integrates with our fiber lasers. The seam stepper and picker can be used in automotive assembly, sheet metal production and other materials processing applications. We also make laser
marking and welding systems for certain applications and geographic markets. When requested by customers, we develop specialized laser systems for their unique applications.







The following table lists our principal product lines that generated a substantial majority
of our revenues in 2011, and the principal applications markets in which they are used:



Product LinePrincipal MarketsPrincipal ApplicationsHigh-Power Ytterbium CW(1,000 — 20,000 Watts)AutomotiveHeavy IndustryGeneral ManufacturingNatural Resources•           Cutting•           Welding•           Annealing•           Drilling•           CladdingMid-Power Ytterbium CW(100 — 999 Watts)General ManufacturingConsumerMedical DevicesPrintingMicroelectronics•           Cutting•           Welding•           Scribing•           Engraving•           Rapid prototypingPulsed Ytterbium(0.1 to 200 Watts)General ManufacturingSemiconductorMedical DevicesConsumerMicroelectronicsPanel Displays•           Marking•           Engraving•           Scribing•           Drilling•           Coating removal•           CuttingQuasi-CW Ytterbium(100 — 900 Watts)Medical DeviceComputer ComponentsMicro-Processing•           Welding and micro-welding•           Drilling•           CuttingErbium AmplifiersBroadband AccessCable TVDWDMInstrumentationScientific Research•           Telephony•           Video on demand•           High-speed internet•           Ultra-long-haul transmission•           Beam combining

Our products are used in a broad range of applications. The major application is materials processing,
comprising approximately 88% of our sales in 2011. Our products also address other applications, including advanced applications (approximately 6% of sales), communications (approximately 4% of sales) and medical (approximately 2% of sales).

Our Markets

Materials Processing

The most significant materials processing applications for fiber lasers are cutting and welding, and marking and engraving. Other applications include micro-processing, surface treatment, drilling,
soldering, annealing, hardening, rapid prototyping and laser-assisted machining.

Cutting and Welding
Applications.Laser-based cutting technology has several advantages compared to alternative technologies. Laser cutting is fast, flexible and highly precise and can be used to cut complex contours on flat, tubular or
three-dimensional materials. The laser source can be programmed to process many different kinds of materials such as steel, aluminum, brass, copper, glass, ceramic and plastic at various thicknesses. Laser cutting technology is a non-contact process
that is easy to integrate into an automated production line and is not subject to wear of the cutting medium. We sell low, mid and high-power ytterbium







fiber lasers for laser cutting. High electrical efficiency, low maintenance, operating wavelength, high beam quality, wide operating power range, power stability and small spot size are some of
the qualities offered by fiber lasers for many cutting applications, which enable customers to cut a variety of materials faster.

Laser welding offers several important advantages compared to conventional welding technology as it is non-contact, easy to automate, provides high process speed and results in narrow-seamed, high-quality
welds that generally require little or no post-processing machining. The high beam quality of our fiber lasers coupled with high CW power offer deep penetration welding as well as shallow conduction mode welding. In addition, fiber lasers can be
focused to a small spot with extremely long focal lengths, enabling remote welding “on the fly,” a flexible method of three-dimensional welding in which the laser beam is positioned by a robot-guided scanner. Such remote welding stations
equipped with fiber lasers are used for welding door panels and seat backs, the multiple welding of spot and lap welds over the entire auto body frame and welding “body-in-white,” which is welding pieces of metal with different thicknesses
for automotive applications. Typically, mid to high-power ytterbium fiber lasers and long-pulse QCW ytterbium fiber lasers are used in welding applications. Our products are used also for laser brazing of visible joints in automobiles such as
tailgates, roof joints and columns. Brazing is a method of connecting sheet metal.

Marking and
Engraving.With the increasing need for source traceability, component identification and product tracking as a means of reducing product liability and preventing falsification, as well as the demand for modern robotic
production systems, manufacturers increasingly demand marking systems capable of applying serialized alphanumeric, graphic or bar code identifications directly onto their manufactured components. Laser engraving is similar to marking but forms
deeper grooves in the material. In contrast to conventional acid etching and ink-based technologies, lasers can mark a wide variety of metal and non-metal materials, such as ceramic, glass and plastic surfaces, at high speeds and without contact by
changing the surface structure of the material or by engraving. Laser marking systems can be easily integrated into a customer’s production process and do not subject the item being marked to mechanical stress. Our ytterbium pulsed fiber lasers
are used for these applications.

In the semiconductor industry, lasers typically are used to mark wafers and integrated
circuits. In the electronics industry, lasers typically are used to mark electrical components such as contactors, relays and printed circuit boards. Consumer electronic devices such as mobile phones, computers and handheld computers contain many
parts that are laser-marked, including keyboards, logos and labels. With the increase in marking speed in the past few years, the cost of laser marking has decreased. In the photovoltaic or solar panel industry, pulsed lasers increasingly are used
to remove materials and to scribe, or cut, solar cells. The high beam quality, increased peak output powers, flexible fiber delivery and competitive price of fiber lasers have accelerated the adoption of fiber lasers in these low-power applications.

Micro-Processing.The trend toward miniaturization in numerous industries such as consumer
electronics, as well as innovations in materials and structures, is driving end users to utilize lasers in processing and fabrication. The ability of lasers to cut, weld, drill, ablate, etch and add materials on a fine scale is enabling new
technologies and products across many industries. Our low-power CW and QCW lasers are used to cut medical stents and weld medical batteries. In photovoltaic manufacturing, our lasers etch and perform edge isolation processes. The aerospace industry
requires precise manufacturing of engine parts so that cooling is effective and aerospace manufacturers use lasers to conduct percussive drilling. Our mid-power lasers are used in sintering, a laser-based three-dimensional prototyping method.

Advanced Applications

Our fiber lasers and amplifiers are utilized by commercial firms and by academic and government institutions worldwide for manufacturing of commercial systems and for research in advanced technologies and
products. These markets may use specialty products developed by us or commercial versions of our products.







Obstacle Warning and Mapping.Our products are used for
obstacle warning and 3-dimensional mapping of earth surfaces.

Special Projects.Due to the high
power, compactness, performance, portability, ruggedness and electrical efficiency of our fiber lasers and amplifiers, we sell our commercial products for government research and projects. These include materials testing, ordnance destruction,
coherent beam combining, directed energy demonstrations, advanced communications and research.

Research and
Development.Our products are used in a variety of applications for research and development by scientists and industrial researchers, including atom trapping. In addition, our lasers and amplifiers are used to design,
test and characterize components and systems in a variety of markets and applications.

Optical Pumping and Harmonic
Generation.Several types of our lasers are used to optically pump other solid-state lasers and for harmonic generation and parametric converters to support research in sensing, medical and other scientific research in the
infrared and visible wavelength domains. Our lasers are used as a power source for these other lasers. Green visible lasers are used to pump titanium sapphire lasers. Visible lasers can be used in optical displays, planetariums and light shows.

Remote Sensing.Our products are used in light detection and ranging, also called LIDAR, a
laser technique for remote sensing. Optical fiber can be used as a sensor for measuring changes in temperature, pressure and gas concentration in oil wells, atmospheric and pollution measurements and seismic exploration.

Communications

We design and manufacture a DWDM transport system with varying output power and wavelengths and a full range of fiber amplifiers and Raman pump lasers that enhance data transmission in broadband access
and DWDM optical networks. We are leveraging our high-power diode and fiber technology through the qualification and sale of high-value integrated solutions for network suppliers.

DWDM.    DWDM is a technology that expands the capacity of optical networks, allowing service providers to
extend the life of existing fiber networks and reduce operating and capital costs by maximizing bandwidth capacity. We provide a broad range of high-power products for DWDM applications including EDFAs and Raman lasers. We provide a DWDM transport
system that offers service providers and private network operators a simple, flexible, optical layer solution scalable from 8 to 40 channels that operates at 10 gigabits per second per channel. We also have introduced a DWDM system capable of
wavelengths operating at 40 gigabits per second per channel with optical terminal network, or OTN, multiplexing capabilities.

Broadband Access.The delivery to subscribers of television programming and Internet-based information and
communication services is converging, driven by advances in IP technology and by changes in the regulatory and competitive environment. Fiber optic lines offer connection speeds of up to 1 gigabit per second, or 100 times faster than digital
subscriber lines, or DSL, or cable links. We offer a series of specialty multi-port EDFAs and cable TV nodes and transmitters that support different types of passive optical network architectures, enabling high-speed data, voice, video on demand and
high-definition TV. We provide an EDFA that supports up to 64 ports, which allows service providers to support a high number of customers in a small space, reducing overall power consumption and network cost. End users for our products include
communications network operators for video wavelength division multiplexing overlay solutions, operators of metro and long-haul networks for DWDM and amplification solutions, as well as cable and multiple system operators for optical amplification
solutions.







Medical

We sell our commercial fiber and diode lasers to OEMs that incorporate our products into their medical laser systems. CW erbium and
thulium fiber lasers from 1 to 100 watts and diode laser systems can be used in various medical and biomedical applications. Aesthetic applications addressed by lasers include skin rejuvenation, skin resurfacing and stretch mark removal. Purchasers
use our diode lasers in dental and skin tightening procedures. Surgical applications include prostate surgery. Fiber lasers have the ability to fine-tune optical penetration depth and absorption characteristics and can be used for ear, nose and
throat, urology, gynecology and other surgical procedures.

Technology

Our products are based on our proprietary technology platform that we have developed and refined since our formation. The following
technologies are key elements in our products.

Specialty Optical Fibers

We have extensive expertise in the disciplines and techniques that form the basis for the multi-clad active and passive optical fibers
used in our products. Active optical fibers form the laser cavity or gain medium in which lasing or amplification of light occurs in our products. Passive optical fibers deliver the optical energy created in our products. Our active fibers consist
of an inner core that is infused with the appropriate rare earth ion, such as ytterbium, erbium or thulium, and outer cores of un-doped glass having different indices of refraction. We believe that our large portfolio of specialty active and passive
optical fibers has a number of advantages as compared to other commercially available optical fibers. These advantages include higher concentrations of rare earth ions, fibers that will not degrade at the high power levels over the useful life of
the product, high lasing efficiency, ability to achieve single-mode outputs at high powers, ability to withstand high optical energies and temperatures and scalable side-pumping capability.

Semiconductor Diode Laser Processing and Packaging Technologies

Another key element of our technology platform is that we use multiple multi-mode, or broad area, single-emitter diodes rather than diode
bars or stacks as a pump source. We believe that multi-mode single-emitter diodes are the most efficient and reliable pumping source presently available, surpassing diode bars and stacks in efficiency, brightness and reliability. Single-emitter
diodes have substantially reduced cooling requirements and typically have estimated lifetimes of more than 100,000 hours at high operating currents, compared to typical lifetimes of up to 10,000 to 20,000 hours for diode bars.

We developed advanced molecular beam epitaxy techniques to grow alumina indium gallium arsenide wafers for our diodes. This method yields
high-quality optoelectronic material for low-defect density and high uniformity of optoelectronic parameters. In addition, we have developed numerous proprietary wafer processes and testing and qualification procedures in order to create a high
energy output in a reliable and high-power diode. We package our diodes in hermetically sealed pump modules in which the diodes are combined with an optical fiber output. Characteristics such as the ability of the package to dissipate heat produced
by the diode and withstand vibration, shock, high temperature, humidity and other environmental conditions are critical to the reliability and efficiency of the products.

Specialty Components and Combining Techniques

We developed a wide
range of advanced optical components that are capable of handling high optical power levels and contribute to the superior performance, efficiency and reliability of our products. In addition to fibers and diodes, our optical component portfolio
includes fiber gratings, couplers, isolators and combiners. We also developed special methods and expertise in splicing fibers together with low optical energy loss and on-line loss







testing. We believe that our internal development and manufacturing of key optical components allows us to lower our manufacturing costs and improve product performance.

Side Pumping of Fibers and Fiber Block Technologies

Our technology platform allows us to efficiently combine a large number of multi-mode single-emitter semiconductor diodes with our active
optical fibers that are used in all of our products. A key element of this technology is that we pump our fiber lasers through the cladding surrounding the active core. We splice our specialty active optical fibers with other optical components and
package them in a sealed box, which we call a fiber block. The fiber blocks are compact and eliminate the risk of contamination or misalignment due to mechanical vibrations and shocks as well as temperature or humidity variations. Our design is
scalable and modular, permitting us to make products with high output power by coupling a large number of diodes with fiber blocks, which can be combined in parallel and serially.

High-Stress Testing

We employ high-stress techniques in testing components and final products that help increase reliability and accelerate product development. For example, we test all of our diodes with high current and
temperatures to accelerate aging. We also have built a large database of diode test results that allows us to predict the estimated lifetime of our diodes. This testing allows us to eliminate defective diodes prior to further assembly and thus
increase reliability.

Customers

We sell our products globally to OEMs, system integrators and end users in a wide range of diverse markets who have the in-house engineering capability to integrate our products into their own systems. We
have thousands of customers worldwide. Our primary end market is materials processing, comprised of general manufacturing, automotive, heavy industry, natural resources, aerospace, consumer products and medical device manufacturing, photovoltaic
semiconductor and electronics customers. We also sell our products to other end markets, including advanced applications (comprised of commercial companies, universities, research entities and government entities), communications (comprised of
system integrators, utilities and municipalities) and medical (comprised of medical laser systems manufacturers and researchers). We believe that our customer and end-market diversification minimizes dependence on any single industry or group of
customers.

The following table shows the allocation of our net sales (in thousands) among our principal markets:



Year Ended December 31,201120102009Materials Processing$419,44388.4%$252,01484.2%$140,86475.8%Advanced Applications25,9185.5%25,1968.4%26,55714.3%Communications20,3684.3%14,0204.7%10,8675.8%Medical8,7531.8%8,0262.7%7,6064.1%Total$474,482100.0%$299,256100.0%$185,894100.0%

We sell to a broad and diverse customer base. Sales to our largest customer accounted for 8%, 7% and 3%
of our net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.







Our net sales (in thousands) were derived from customers in the following geographic
regions:



Year Ended December 31,201120102009North America(1)$86,18118.2%$61,70620.6%$45,66824.6%Europe:Germany76,27916.1%46,28215.5%28,24215.2%Other including Eastern Europe/CIS103,30521.8%66,17422.1%42,17122.7%Asia and Australia:Japan63,26113.3%35,87812.0%29,93716.1%China104,56022.0%57,76219.3%20,94211.3%Other36,9377.8%30,61410.2%15,2218.2%Rest of World3,9590.8%8400.3%3,7132.0%Total$474,482100.0%$299,256100.0%$185,894100.0%



(1)The substantial majority of sales in North America are to customers in the United States.

Backlog

At December 31, 2011, our backlog of orders, generally
scheduled for shipment within one year, was approximately $207.0 million compared to $171.6 million at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, our backlog included $124.1 million of orders with firm shipment dates and $82.9 million of
frame agreements that we expect to ship within one year, compared to $98.6 million of orders with firm shipment dates and $73.0 million of frame agreements at December 31, 2010. Frame agreements generally are agreements without committed
shipment dates. Orders used to compute backlog are generally cancelable without substantial penalties. Historically, the rate of cancellation experienced by us has not been significant. We manage the risk of cancellation by establishing the right to
charge a cancellation fee that generally covers a portion of the purchase price, any materials and development costs incurred prior to the order being cancelled. Our ability to enforce this right depends on many factors including, but not limited
to, the customer’s requested length of delay, the number of other outstanding orders with the customer and our ability to quickly convert the cancelled order to another sale.

We anticipate shipping a substantial majority of the present backlog during fiscal year 2012. However, our backlog at any given date is
not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any future period.

Sales, Marketing and Support

We market our products internationally primarily through our direct sales force. Our direct sales force sells to end users, OEMs and
systems integrators. Once our fiber laser products are designed into an OEM system, the OEM sales force markets the product, allowing us to take advantage of numerous OEM sales forces, each typically having several salespersons in locations other
than where our sales offices are located. We have sales offices in the United States, Germany, Russia, Italy, France, Spain, China, Japan, South Korea, India, the United Kingdom, and Singapore. We have materials processing application centers in the
United States, Germany, Russia, China, Italy, Japan and South Korea, which we use to demonstrate our products and develop new applications. Our application centers are fundamental to developing new laser applications for customers and assisting them
in integrating lasers into their production processes.

To a lesser extent, we market through agreements with independent
sales representatives and distributors. Our independent sales representatives and distributors are located in the United States, Russia, Japan, Brazil and Mexico. Sales to foreign customers are generally priced in local currencies and are therefore
subject to currency exchange fluctuations.







We maintain a customer support and field service staff in our major markets. We work
closely with customers and independent representatives to service equipment and to train customers to use our products. We may expand our support and field service, particularly in locations where customer concentration or volume requires local
service capabilities. We repair products at our facilities or at customer sites.

We typically provide one to three-year parts
and service warranties on our lasers and amplifiers. Most of our sales offices provide support to customers in their respective geographic areas. Warranty reserves have generally been sufficient to cover product warranty repair and replacement
costs.

Manufacturing

Vertical integration is one of our core business strategies through which we control our proprietary processes and technologies as well as the supply of key components and assemblies. We believe that our
vertically integrated business model gives us the following advantages:



•maintaining a technological lead over competitors;



•reducing component and final product costs compared to market prices available to competitors;



•ensuring access to critical components, enabling us to better meet customer demands;



•controlling performance, quality and consistency; and



•enabling rapid development and deployment of new products and technologies.

Our vertically integrated manufacturing operations include optical preform making, specialty fiber drawing, semiconductor wafer growth,
diode processing and packaging, specialty optical component manufacturing, fiber block and fiber module assembly for different power units, software and electronics development, final assembly, as well as testing, tool manufacturing and automated
production systems. Over the last several years, we added additional production capabilities, including three multi-wafer growth reactors, diode test stations, fiber pre-form and fiber drawing equipment and low, mid and high-power production and
testing, in order to increase our capacity as well as reduce the risks associated with our production process.

We operate our
own semiconductor foundry for the production of the multi-mode single-emitter diodes. Diodes are the pumps that are used as the light source in each device we make. We also process, package and extensively test all of our diodes. Because pump diodes
represent a significant component cost of the final laser or amplifier, we have chosen to develop internal manufacturing capabilities for diodes. As a result of our high-volume production levels of pump diodes, proprietary processes and use of
limited chip designs, we have been able to increase yields, lower component costs and assure high quality. We also design, manufacture and optimize many of our own test instruments, diode test racks, robotic and automated assembly tools and
machines.

We developed these proprietary components, manufacturing tools, equipment and techniques over many years in an
effort to address the major issues that had been inhibiting the development of fiber laser technology and to provide products that differentiate us from our competitors. We believe that the proprietary components, manufacturing tools, equipment,
techniques and software utilized in all of our product lines provide extensive barriers to potential competitors. Generally, we do not sell our proprietary components to third parties. Using our technology platform, we configure standard products
based upon each customer’s specifications. Through our vertically integrated manufacturing operations, we can develop, test and produce new products and configurations with higher performance and reliability and in less time than by working
with external vendors. We have developed proprietary testing methodologies that allow us to develop higher power components and products in short periods of time, enable us to introduce products to the market more quickly, capitalize on new
opportunities and provide superior service to our customers.







Our in-house manufacturing generally includes only those operations and components that are
critical to the protection of our intellectual property, the reduction of our costs or the achievement of performance and quality standards. We purchase from vendors common and specialized mechanical, electrical and optical parts and raw materials,
such as printed circuit boards, wafer substrates and various optical components.

Research and Development

We have extensive research and development experience in laser materials, fiber and optoelectronic components. We have assembled a team of
scientists and engineers with specialized experience and extensive knowledge in fiber lasers and amplifiers, critical components, testing and manufacturing process design.

We focus our research and development efforts on designing and introducing new and improved standard and customized products and the mass production of components for our products. In addition to our
cladding-pumped specialty fiber platform, we have core competencies in high-power multi-mode semiconductor laser diodes, diode packaging, specialty active and passive optical fibers, high-performance optical components, fiber gain blocks and fiber
modules, as well as coupling and combining techniques and high-stress test methods. Our research and development efforts are aided by our vertical integration and our proprietary high-stress testing techniques that result in accelerated development
cycles. The strategy of developing our proprietary components has allowed us to leverage our optical experience and large volume requirements to lower the cost of our products. We concentrate our research and development efforts on advancements in
performance as well as capacity to hold and produce higher optical power levels.

Our research and development efforts are
also directed at expanding our product line by increasing power levels, improving beam quality and electrical efficiency, decreasing the size of our products and lowering the cost per watt. We also are engaged in research projects to expand the
spectral range of products that we offer, including the development of a mid-IR line of lasers from 2 to 5 microns, with a hybrid fiber and crystal laser design. Our team of experienced scientists and engineers works closely with many of our
customers to develop and introduce custom products that address specific applications and performance requirements.

We
incurred research and development costs of approximately $25.4 million in 2011, $19.2 million in 2010 and $18.5 million in 2009. We plan to continue our commitment to research and development and to introduce new products, systems and complementary
products that would allow us to maintain our competitive position. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition of Results of Operations.” We may seek to acquire additional specialized research and
development capabilities to expand our research efforts.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and contractual non-disclosure obligations to protect our
intellectual property rights. The principal focus of our patenting activities is laser and amplifier designs and laser systems. As of February 22, 2012, we owned approximately 136 U.S. and international patents with expiration dates from
2012 through 2029 and approximately 145 pending U.S. and international patent applications. We pursue patent protection in our major markets. In February 2008, we purchased a portfolio of photonics patents from British Telecommunications plc in
the fields of optical fiber lasers and amplifiers, semiconductor devices, integrated optics, fiber gratings, high-speed systems and optical networking. Intellectual property rights, including those that we own, those that we license and those of
others, involve significant risks. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors-Our Inability to Protect Our Intellectual Property and Proprietary Technologies Could Result in the Unauthorized Use of Our Technologies by Third Parties, Hurt Our Competitive
Position and Adversely Affect Our Operating Results.” We also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities.







Competition

Our markets are competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technology and continuously evolving customer requirements. We believe that the primary competitive factors in our markets are:



•product performance and reliability;



•quality and service support;



•price and value to the customer;



•ability to manufacture and deliver products on a timely basis;



•ability to achieve qualification for and integration into OEM systems;



•ability to meet customer specifications; and



•ability to respond quickly to market demand and technological developments.

We believe we compete favorably with respect to these criteria. In the materials processing market, the competition
is fragmented and includes a large number of competitors. We compete with makers of high-power CO2and solid-state lasers, including Fanuc, Rofin-Sinar Technologies, Inc. and Trumpf GmbH + Co. KG, and makers of mid and low-power CO2and solid-state lasers such as Coherent, Inc., GSI Group Inc., Newport Corporation and Rofin-Sinar Technologies, Inc. We
also compete with fiber laser makers, including Rofin-Sinar Technologies, Inc., Trumpf GmbH + Co. KG, GSI Group Inc., Coherent Inc., Hypertherm, Inc., Newport Corporation, The Furukawa Electric Co., Ltd., Keopsys SA, Mitsubishi Cable Industries,
Ltd., Miyachi Unitek Corporation, Raycus Fiber Laser Technologies Co. Ltd. and JDS Uniphase Corporation. We believe that we compete favorably with other makers of fiber lasers on price and value to customer, reliability, service and performance.
Several competitors recently introduced fiber lasers or announced plans to introduce fiber lasers that compete with our high-power products. We also compete in the materials processing, advanced and medical applications markets with end users that
produce their own solid-state and gas lasers as well as with manufacturers of non-laser methods and tools, such as resistance welding and cutting dies in the materials processing market and scalpels in the medical market.

In the communications market, our principal competitors are manufacturers of mid-power fiber amplifiers and DWDM systems, such as Oclaro
Inc., the Scientific-Atlanta division of Cisco Systems, Inc. (Scientific-Atlanta), Emcore Corporation, JDS Uniphase Corporation, Huawei Corporation and MPB Communications Inc. We believe that we compete favorably with other fiber amplifier producers
with respect to price, product performance and output power.

Many of our competitors are larger than we are and have
substantially greater financial, managerial and technical resources, more extensive distribution and service networks, greater sales and marketing capacity, and larger installed customer bases than we do.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2011, we had approximately 2,137 full-time employees, including 184 in research and development, 1,646 in manufacturing operations, 122 in sales, service and marketing, and 185 in general and administrative functions. Of our total
full-time employees at our principal facilities, approximately 659 were in the United States, 658 were in Germany, 608 were in Russia and 82 were in China. We have never experienced a work stoppage and none of our employees is subject to a
collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our current relations with our employees are good.







Government Regulation

Regulatory Compliance

The majority of our laser and amplifier
products sold in the United States are classified as Class IV Laser Products under the applicable rules and regulations of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health, or CDRH, of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The same classification
system is applied in the European markets. Safety rules are formulated with “Deutsche Industrie Norm” (i.e., German Industrial Standards) or ISO standards, which are internationally harmonized.

CDRH regulations generally require a self-certification procedure pursuant to which a manufacturer must submit a filing to the CDRH with
respect to each product incorporating a laser device, make periodic reports of sales and purchases and comply with product labeling standards, product safety and design features and informational requirements. Our product applications can result in
injury to human tissue if directed at an individual or otherwise misused. The CDRH is empowered to seek fines and other remedies for violations of their requirements. We believe that our products are in material compliance with applicable laws and
regulations relating to the manufacture of laser devices.

Environmental Regulation

Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment, including those relating to
the storage, use, discharge, disposal, product composition and labeling of, and human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental protection laws and
regulations.

Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of such materials
comply with the standards required by federal and state laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of such an accident involving such materials, we
could be liable for damages and such liability could exceed the amount of our liability insurance coverage and the resources of our business.

Availability of Reports

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports are
available free of charge on our web site atwww.ipgphotonics.comas soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (www.sec.gov). We will also
provide electronic or paper copies of such reports free of charge, upon request made to our Corporate Secretary.

