ITEM 1.BUSINESS.



Products



Deere & Company (the Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively called John Deere) have operations which are categorized into three major business segments.



Theagriculture and turfsegment primarily manufactures and distributes a full line of farm and turf equipment and related service parts — including large, medium and utility tractors; loaders; combines, corn pickers, cotton and sugarcane harvesters and related front-end equipment and sugarcane loaders; tillage, seeding and application equipment, including sprayers, nutrient management and soil preparation machinery; hay and forage equipment, including self-propelled forage harvesters and attachments, balers and mowers; turf and utility equipment, including riding lawn equipment and walk-behind mowers, golf course equipment, utility vehicles, and commercial mowing equipment, along with a broad line of associated implements; integrated agricultural management systems technology; precision agricultural irrigation equipment and supplies; landscape and nursery products; and other outdoor power products.



Theconstruction and forestrysegment primarily manufactures and distributes a broad range of machines and service parts used in construction, earthmoving, material handling and timber harvesting — including backhoe loaders; crawler dozers and loaders; four-wheel-drive loaders; excavators; motor graders; articulated dump trucks; landscape loaders; skid-steer loaders; and log skidders, feller bunchers, log loaders, log forwarders, log harvesters and related attachments.



The products and services produced by the segments above are marketed primarily through independent retail dealer networks and major retail outlets.



Thefinancial servicessegment primarily finances sales and leases by John Deere dealers of new and used agriculture and turf equipment and construction and forestry equipment. In addition, the financial services segment provides wholesale financing to dealers of the foregoing equipment, provides operating loans, finances retail revolving charge accounts and offers crop risk mitigation products and extended equipment warranties.



John Deere’s worldwide agriculture and turf operations and construction and forestry operations are sometimes referred to as the “equipment operations.” The financial services segment is sometimes referred to as the “financial services operations.”



Additional information is presented in the discussion of business segment and geographic area results on page 20. The John Deere enterprise has manufactured agricultural machinery since 1837. The present Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1958.



The Company’s internet address ishttp://www.JohnDeere.com. Through that address, the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“Securities and Exchange Commission” or “Commission”). The information contained on the Company’s website is not included in, or incorporated by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K.



Market Conditions and Outlook



In spite of an unsettled global economy, demand for the Company’s products is expected to experience substantial growth in fiscal year 2012 and the Company is forecasting further increases in sales and earnings as a result. Company equipment sales are projected to increase about 15 percent for the year and 16 to 18 percent for the first quarter, compared with the same periods of 2011. Included is a favorable currency translation impact of about 3 percent for the first quarter and about 1 percent for the year. Net income attributable to Deere & Company for the year is anticipated to be approximately $3.2 billion.



Agriculture & Turf.Worldwide sales of the Company’s agriculture and turf segment are forecast to increase by about 15 percent for fiscal year 2012, with a favorable currency translation impact of about 1 percent. Farmers in the world’s major markets are continuing to experience favorable incomes due to strong demand for agricultural commodities. The Company’s sales are expected to benefit as well from advanced new products being launched throughout the world and major expansion projects such as those in emerging markets.










Industry farm machinery sales in the United States (U.S.) and Canada are forecast to increase 5 to 10 percent in 2012, following an increase in 2011. Overall conditions remain positive and demand continues to be strong, especially for high horsepower equipment.



Industry sales in the EU 27 nations of Western and Central Europe are forecast to be approximately the same for 2012 as a result of general economic concerns in the region. Sales in the Commonwealth of Independent States are expected to be moderately higher, after rising substantially in 2011. Sales in Asia are forecast to increase strongly again in 2012. In South America, industry sales for the year are projected to be about the same as the strong levels of 2011.



Industry sales of turf and utility equipment in the U.S. and Canada are expected to increase slightly in 2012.



Construction & Forestry.Worldwide sales of the Company’s construction and forestry equipment are forecast to grow by about 16 percent for fiscal year 2012, with a favorable currency translation impact of about 1 percent. The increase reflects slightly improved market conditions and improved activity outside of the U.S., including strength in Canada. Construction equipment sales to independent rental companies are expected to see further gains. The Company’s sales also are expected to be supported by a range of advanced new products and by geographic expansion. After considerable growth in 2011, world forestry markets are projected to be about the same in 2012 due to weaker economic conditions in Europe.



Financial Services.Fiscal year 2012 net income attributable to Deere & Company for the financial services operations is expected to be approximately $450 million. The forecast decline from 2011 is primarily due to an increase in the provision for credit losses, which is anticipated to return to a more typical level, as well as higher selling, administrative and general expenses in support of enterprise growth initiatives. Partially offsetting these items is expected growth in the credit portfolio.



2011 Consolidated Results Compared with 2010



Worldwide net income attributable to Deere & Company in 2011 was $2,800 million, or $6.63 per share diluted ($6.71 basic), compared with $1,865 million, or $4.35 per share diluted ($4.40 basic), in 2010. Net sales and revenues increased 23 percent to $32,013 million in 2011, compared with $26,005 million in 2010. Net sales of the equipment operations increased 25 percent in 2011 to $29,466 million from $23,573 million last year. The sales increase, which was primarily due to higher shipment volumes, also included a favorable effect for foreign currency translation of 3 percent and price realization of 3 percent. Net sales in the U.S. and Canada increased 17 percent in 2011. Net sales outside the U.S. and Canada increased by 38 percent in 2011, which included a favorable effect of 7 percent for foreign currency translation.



Worldwide equipment operations had an operating profit of $3,839 million in 2011, compared with $2,909 million in 2010. The higher operating profit was primarily due to higher shipment volumes and improved price realization, partially offset by increased raw material costs, higher manufacturing overhead costs related to new products, higher selling, administrative and general expenses and increased research and development expenses.



The equipment operations’ net income was $2,329 million in 2011, compared with $1,492 million in 2010. The same operating factors mentioned above and a lower effective tax rate in 2011 affected these results.



Net income of the financial services operations attributable to Deere & Company in 2011 increased to $471 million, compared with $373 million in 2010. The increase was primarily a result of growth in the credit portfolio and a lower provision for credit losses. Additional information is presented in the discussion of the “Worldwide Financial Services Operations” on page 20.



The cost of sales to net sales ratio for 2011 was 74.4 percent, compared with 73.8 percent last year. The increase was primarily due to increased raw material costs and higher manufacturing overhead costs related to new products, partially offset by improved price realization.



Additional information on 2011 results is presented on pages 19 - 20.



EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS



Agriculture and Turf



The John Deere agriculture and turf segment manufactures and distributes a full line of agricultural and turf equipment and related service parts. The segment’s global operating model is designed to enable faster geographic growth and increase the segment’s competitiveness. Pursuant to this model, the segment consolidates all markets into four geographical customer focus areas to facilitate comprehensive customer understanding and deliver optimal customer service. As an additional component of the global operating model, the segment’s equipment operations are consolidated into five product platforms — crop harvesting (combines, corn pickers,










cotton and sugarcane harvesters and related front-end equipment and sugarcane loaders); turf and utility (utility vehicles, riding lawn equipment, walk-behind mowers, commercial mowing equipment, golf course equipment, implements for mowing, tilling, snow and debris handling, aerating and many other residential, commercial, golf and sports turf care applications; and other outdoor power products); hay and forage (self-propelled forage harvesters and attachments, balers and mowers); crop care (tillage, seeding and application equipment, including sprayers, nutrient management and soil preparation machinery); and tractors (loaders and large, medium and utility tractors and related attachments). John Deere also purchases certain products from other manufacturers for resale.



Additionally, the segment offers ancillary products and services supporting its agricultural and turf equipment customers. John Deere Landscapes, a unit of the segment, distributes irrigation equipment, nursery products and landscape supplies, including seed, fertilizer and hardscape materials, primarily to landscape service professionals. John Deere Water, also a unit of the agriculture and turf segment, manufactures and distributes precision agricultural irrigation equipment and supplies.



The segment also provides integrated agricultural business and equipment management systems. John Deere has developed a comprehensive agricultural management systems approach using advanced communications, data collection and global satellite positioning technologies to enable farmers to better control input costs and yields, improve soil conservation and minimize chemical use and to gather information. Recently introduced advanced telematics systems remotely connect agricultural equipment owners, business managers and dealers to agricultural equipment in the field, providing real-time alerts and information about equipment location, utilization, performance and maintenance to improve productivity and efficiency.



In addition to the John Deere brand, the agriculture and turf segment purchases and sells a variety of equipment attachments under the Frontier and Green Systems brand names, and manufactures and sells walk-behind mowers and scarifiers in Europe under the SABO brand name and tractors in China under the Benye brand name. John Deere manufactures its agricultural and turf equipment for sale primarily through independent retail dealer networks, and also builds products for sale by mass retailers, including The Home Depot and Lowe’s.



Sales of agricultural equipment are affected by total farm cash receipts, which reflect levels of farm commodity prices, acreage planted, crop yields and governmental policies, including the amount and timing of government payments. Sales are also influenced by general economic conditions, farm land prices, farmers’ debt levels and access to financing, interest and exchange rates, agricultural trends, including the production of and demand for renewable fuels, labor availability and costs, energy costs and other input costs associated with farming. Other important factors affecting new agricultural equipment sales are the value and level of used equipment, including tractors, harvesting equipment, self-propelled sprayers, hay and forage equipment and seeding equipment. Weather and climatic conditions can also affect buying decisions of agricultural equipment purchasers.



Innovations in machinery and technology also influence agricultural equipment purchasing. For example, larger, more productive equipment is well accepted where farmers are striving for more efficiency in their operations. Large, cost-efficient, highly-mechanized agricultural operations account for an important share of worldwide farm output. The large-size agricultural equipment used on such farms has been particularly important to John Deere. A large proportion of the equipment operations’ total agricultural equipment sales in the U.S. and Canada, and a growing proportion of sales in many countries outside the U.S. and Canada, is comprised of tractors over 100 horsepower, self-propelled combines, self-propelled cotton pickers, self-propelled forage harvesters, self-propelled sprayers and seeding equipment. However, as John Deere expands its business globally, especially in developing countries where demand for smaller equipment is greater, John Deere’s sales of small tractors below 100 horsepower are increasing and John Deere offers a number of harvesting solutions to support the development of mechanized harvesting of grain, oilseeds, cotton, sugar and biomass.



Retail sales of lawn and garden tractors, compact utility tractors, residential and commercial mowers, utility vehicles, and golf and turf equipment are influenced by weather conditions, consumer spending patterns and general economic conditions.



Seasonality










Retail demand for turf and utility equipment is normally higher in the second and third quarters. John Deere is pursuing a strategy of building and shipping as close to retail demand as possible. Consequently, to increase asset turnover and reduce the average level of field inventories through the year, production and shipment schedules of these product lines will normally be proportionately higher in the second and third quarters of each year, corresponding closely to the seasonal pattern of retail sales.



Construction and Forestry



John Deere construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment includes a broad range of backhoe loaders, crawler dozers and loaders, four-wheel-drive loaders, excavators, motor graders, articulated dump trucks, landscape loaders, skid-steer loaders, log skidders, log feller bunchers, log loaders, log forwarders, log harvesters and a variety of attachments. John Deere provides the most complete line of forestry machines and attachments available in the world. The segment’s forestry machines are distributed under the John Deere brand name and forestry attachments are distributed under the John Deere and Waratah brand names. In addition to the equipment manufactured by the construction and forestry segment, John Deere purchases certain products from other manufacturers for resale. The segment also provides comprehensive fleet management telematics solutions designed to improve customer productivity and efficiency through access to fleet location, utilization and maintenance information.



The prevailing levels of residential, commercial and public construction and the condition of the forest products industry influence retail sales of John Deere construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment. General economic conditions, the level of interest rates, the availability of credit and certain commodity prices such as those applicable to pulp, paper and saw logs also influence sales.



Pursuant to agreements between John Deere and Bell Equipment Limited (Bell), Bell licenses John Deere to manufacture articulated dump trucks in the U.S. for John Deere’s distribution under the John Deere brand name in North, Central and South America. John Deere licenses Bell to manufacture and sell certain John Deere-designed construction equipment in specified territories of Africa. Bell is also the distributor of certain John Deere-manufactured construction equipment under the Bell brand name and forestry equipment under the John Deere brand name in certain territories of Africa. Bell and John Deere are in discussions to terminate the manufacturing and license agreements and retain Bell as a dealer of construction and forestry equipment.



John Deere and Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (Hitachi) have a joint venture for the manufacture of hydraulic excavators and track log loaders in the U.S. and Canada, and have established a new joint venture for the manufacture of excavators in Brazil. John Deere distributes Hitachi brands of construction and mining equipment in North, Central and South America. John Deere also has supply agreements with Hitachi under which a range of construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry products manufactured by John Deere in the U.S., Finland and New Zealand are distributed by Hitachi in certain Asian markets.



Outside the U.S. and Canada, the construction and forestry segment has a joint venture in China for the manufacture of hydraulic excavators with Xuzhou Bohui Science & Technology Development CO. Ltd. (Xuzhou) known as Xuzhou XCG John Deere Machinery Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (XCGJD). In India, the construction and forestry segment manufactures construction equipment branded Leyland Deere through its joint venture with Ashok Leyland Limited, known as Ashok Leyland John Deere Construction Equipment Company Private Limited (ALJD). The segment has also established manufacturing capacity for construction and forestry equipment in Russia, and is establishing manufacturing capacity for construction equipment in Brazil and China.



The segment has a number of initiatives in the rent-to-rent, or short-term rental, market for construction, earthmoving and material handling equipment. These include specially designed rental programs for John Deere dealers and expanded cooperation with major, national equipment rental companies.



John Deere also owns Nortrax, Inc. and Nortrax Canada Inc. (collectively called Nortrax). Nortrax is an authorized John Deere dealer for construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment in a variety of markets in the U.S. and Canada. John Deere also owns a retail construction and forestry sales operation in Russia and owns retail forestry sales operations in Australia, Brazil, Finland, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom.



Competition



The equipment operations sell products and services into a variety of highly competitive global and regional markets. The principal competitive factors in all markets include product performance, innovation and quality, distribution, customer service and price. In North America and many other parts of the world, John Deere’s brand recognition is a competitive factor.



The competitive environment for the agriculture and turf segment includes some global competitors, including AGCO Corporation, CLAAS KGaA mbH, CNH Global N.V., Kubota Tractor Corporation and The Toro Company, and many regional and local competitors. These competitors have varying numbers of product lines competing with the segment’s products and each have varying










degrees of regional focus. An important part of the competition within the agricultural equipment industry during the past decade has come from a diverse variety of short-line and specialty manufacturers, as well as indigenous regional competitors, with differing manufacturing and marketing methods. Because of industry conditions, including the merger of certain large integrated competitors and the emergence and expanding global capability of many competitors, particularly in emerging and high potential markets such as Brazil, China, India and Russia where John Deere seeks to increase market share, the agricultural equipment business continues to undergo significant change and is becoming even more competitive. John Deere has continued to increase its global manufacturing capacity to compete in these markets. The segment’s turf equipment is sold primarily in the highly competitive North American and Western European markets. The agriculture and turf segment’s global operating model is designed to enhance the segment’s competitive position by reducing complexity, implementing standard processes and increasing customer focus, speed and flexibility while building on the segment’s broad global reach and deep understanding of the agriculture and turf care markets.



The construction and forestry segment operates in highly competitive North American and global markets, and is seeking to grow its competitive position in other parts of the world, including Brazil, China, India and Russia. Global competitors of the construction and forestry segment include Caterpillar Inc., Komatsu Ltd., Volvo Construction Equipment (part of Volvo Group AB), CNH Global N.V., Tigercat Industries Inc. and Ponsse Plc. The segment manufactures construction, earthmoving and material handling equipment for over 90 percent of the types of equipment used in North America.



Engineering and Research



John Deere invests heavily in engineering and research to improve the quality and performance of its products, to develop new products and to comply with government regulations. Such expenditures were $1,226 million or 4.2 percent of net sales in 2011, $1,052 million or 4.5 percent in 2010 and $977 million or 4.7 percent in 2009.



Manufacturing



Manufacturing Plants

. In the U.S. and Canada, the equipment operations own and operate 19 factory locations and lease and operate another four locations, which contain approximately 27.1 million square feet of floor space. Of these 23 factories, 15 are devoted primarily to agriculture and turf equipment, three to construction and forestry equipment, one to engines, two to engine and component remanufacturing and two to hydraulic and power train components. Outside the U.S. and Canada, the equipment operations own or lease and operate: agriculture and turf equipment factories in Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Mexico, the Netherlands, Russia and Spain; a construction and forestry assembly operation in Russia; engine factories in Argentina, France, India and Mexico; and forestry equipment factories in Finland and New Zealand. Construction equipment factories are being added in Brazil and China, and an engine factory is being added in China. In addition, John Deere Water has manufacturing operations outside of North America in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, France, India, Israel and Spain. These factories and manufacturing operations outside the U.S. and Canada contain approximately 17.8 million square feet of floor space. The engine factories referred to above manufacture non-road, heavy duty diesel engines a majority of which are manufactured for John Deere’s equipment operations. The remaining engines are sold to other regional and global original equipment manufacturers.



The equipment operations also have financial interests in other manufacturing organizations, which include agricultural equipment manufacturers in the U.S., an industrial truck manufacturer in South Africa, the Hitachi joint venture that builds hydraulic excavators and track log loaders in the U.S. and Canada and the Hitachi joint venture that will build hydraulic excavators in Brazil, the XCGJD joint venture that builds excavators, the ALJD joint venture that builds backhoes and four-wheel-drive loaders, ventures that manufacture transaxles and transmissions used in certain agriculture and turf segment products and a venture that remanufactures turbochargers, diesel particulate filters and electronics.



John Deere’s facilities are well maintained, in good operating condition and are suitable for their present purposes. These facilities, together with both short-term and long-term planned capital expenditures, are expected to meet John Deere’s manufacturing needs in the foreseeable future.



Capacity is adequate to satisfy John Deere’s current expectations for retail market demand. The equipment operations’ manufacturing strategy involves the implementation of appropriate levels of technology and automation to allow manufacturing processes to remain profitable at varying production levels. Operations are also designed to be flexible enough to accommodate the product design changes required to meet market conditions and changing customer requirements. Common manufacturing facilities and techniques are employed in the production of components for agriculture and turf equipment and construction and forestry equipment.



In order to utilize manufacturing facilities and technology more effectively, the equipment operations pursue continuous improvements in manufacturing processes. These include steps to streamline manufacturing processes and enhance responsiveness to customers. John Deere has implemented flexible assembly lines that can accommodate a wider product mix and deliver products in line with dealer and customer demand. Additionally, considerable effort is being directed to manufacturing cost reduction through










process improvement, product design, advanced manufacturing technology, enhanced environmental management systems, supply management and logistics as well as compensation incentives related to productivity and organizational structure. In recent years, John Deere has experienced volatility in the price of many raw materials. John Deere has responded to cost pressures by implementing the cost-reduction measures described above and increasing prices. Significant cost increases, if they occur, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. The equipment operations also pursue external sales of selected parts and components that can be manufactured and supplied to third parties on a competitive basis.



Capital Expenditures.The equipment operations’ capital expenditures totaled $1,047 million in 2011, compared with $796 million in 2010 and $772 million in 2009. Provisions for depreciation applicable to these operations’ property and equipment during these years were $510 million, $477 million and $450 million, respectively. Capital expenditures for the equipment operations in 2012 are currently estimated to be $1,200 million to $1,300 million. The 2012 expenditures will relate primarily to U.S. Tier 4 emission requirements, the modernization and restructuring of key manufacturing facilities, the construction of new manufacturing facilities, and the development of new products. Future levels of capital expenditures will depend on business conditions.



Patents and Trademarks



John Deere owns a significant number of patents, trade secrets, licenses and trademarks related to John Deere products and services, and expects the number to grow as John Deere continues to pursue technological innovations. John Deere’s policy is to further its competitive position by filing patent applications in the U.S. and internationally to protect technology and improvements considered important to the business. The Company believes that, in the aggregate, the rights under these patents and licenses are generally important to its operations and competitive position, but does not regard any of its businesses as being dependent upon any single patent or group of patents. However, certain John Deere trademarks, which contribute to John Deere’s identity and the recognition of its products and services, including but not limited to the “John Deere” mark, the leaping deer logo, the “Nothing Runs Like a Deere” slogan and green and yellow equipment colors, are an integral part of John Deere’s business, and their loss could have a material adverse effect on John Deere.



Marketing



In the U.S. and Canada, the equipment operations distribute equipment and service parts through the following facilities: two agriculture and turf equipment sales and administration offices located in Olathe, Kansas and Cary, North Carolina and one sales branch located in Grimsby, Ontario; and one construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment sales and administration office located in Moline, Illinois. In addition, the equipment operations operate a centralized parts distribution warehouse in coordination with eight regional parts depots and distribution centers in the U.S. and Canada.



Through these U.S. and Canadian facilities, John Deere markets products to approximately 2,496 dealer locations, most of which are independently owned. Of these, approximately 1,546 sell agricultural equipment, while 418 sell construction, earthmoving, material handling and/or forestry equipment. Nortrax owns some of the 418 dealer locations. Turf equipment is sold at most John Deere agricultural equipment locations, a few construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment locations, and about 532 turf-only locations, many of which also sell dissimilar lines of non-John Deere products. In addition, certain lawn and garden product lines are sold through The Home Depot and Lowe’s. John Deere Landscapes operates its business from approximately 423 branch locations throughout the U.S. and Canada.



Outside the U.S. and Canada, John Deere agriculture and turf equipment is sold to distributors and dealers for resale in over 100 countries. Sales and administrative offices are located in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine and the United Kingdom. Associated companies doing business in China also sell agricultural equipment. Turf equipment sales outside the U.S. and Canada occur primarily in Europe and Australia. Construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment is sold to distributors and dealers primarily by sales offices located in Australia, Brazil, Finland, Ireland, New Zealand, Russia and Singapore. Some of these dealers are independently owned while John Deere owns others. The equipment operations operate centralized parts distribution warehouses in Brazil, Germany and Russia in coordination with regional parts depots and distribution centers in Argentina, Australia, China, India, Mexico, South Africa, Sweden and the United Kingdom.



John Deere Water operates from 24 sales and marketing locations and 26 warehousing locations in 16 countries including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, Ecuador, France, India, Israel, Italy, Mexico, Peru, Russia, Spain, Turkey and the U.S. John Deere Water’s products are marketed through approximately 1,500 independent dealers and distributors in over 100 countries.



John Deere engines are marketed worldwide through select sales branches to large original equipment manufacturers and independently owned engine distributors.










Raw Materials



John Deere purchases raw materials and some manufactured components and replacement parts for its equipment, engines and other products from leading suppliers both domestically and internationally. These materials and components include a variety of steel products, steel and iron castings, forgings and ready to assemble components made to certain specifications. John Deere also purchases various goods and services used in production, logistics, offices and research and development processes. John Deere maintains strategic sourcing models to meet its production needs and build upon long-term supplier relationships. John Deere uses a variety of agreements with suppliers intended to drive innovation, ensure availability and delivery of industry-leading quality raw materials and components, manage costs on a globally competitive basis, protect John Deere’s intellectual property and minimize other supply-related risks. Supply chain risks monitored by John Deere to minimize the likelihood of the supply base causing business disruption include supplier financial viability, capacity, business continuity, quality and delivery, and weather-related events including natural disasters. In fiscal year 2011, John Deere experienced no significant work stoppages as a result of shortages of raw materials or other commodities.



Backlog Orders



The dollar amount of backlog orders for the agriculture and turf segment believed to be firm was approximately $5.5 billion at October 31, 2011, compared with $4.3 billion at October 31, 2010. The agriculture and turf backlog is generally highest in the second and third quarters due to seasonal buying trends in these industries. John Deere generally produces and ships its construction and forestry equipment on average within approximately 60 days after an order is deemed to become firm. Therefore, no significant amount of construction and forestry backlog orders accumulates during any period.



Trade Accounts and Notes Receivable



Trade accounts and notes receivable arise primarily from sales of goods to independent dealers. Most trade receivables originated by the equipment operations are purchased by the financial services operations. The equipment operations compensate the financial services operations at approximate market rates of interest for these receivables. Additional information appears in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



FINANCIAL SERVICES



U.S. and Canada. The Company’s financial services segment primarily provides and administers financing for retail purchases from John Deere dealers of new equipment manufactured by John Deere’s agriculture and turf and construction and forestry segments and used equipment taken in trade for this equipment. In the U.S., certain subsidiaries included in the financial services segment also offer crop risk mitigation products and extended equipment warranties.





Retail notes acquired by the sales companies are immediately sold to the financial services operations. The equipment operations are the financial services operations’ major source of business, but many retail purchasers of John Deere products finance their purchases outside the John Deere organization through a variety of sources, including commercial banks and finance and leasing companies.



The financial services operations offer retail leases to equipment users in the U.S. A small number of leases are executed with units of local government. Leases are usually written for periods of four months to sixty months, and typically contain an option permitting the customer to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term. Retail leases are also offered in a generally similar manner to customers in Canada through John Deere Credit Inc. and John Deere Canada ULC.










The financial services operations’ terms for financing equipment retail sales (other than smaller items financed with unsecured revolving charge accounts) provide for retention of a security interest in the equipment financed. The financial services operations’ guidelines for minimum down payments, which vary with the types of equipment and repayment provisions, are generally 10 percent to 30 percent. Finance charges are sometimes waived for specified periods or reduced on certain John Deere products sold or leased in advance of the season of use or in other sales promotions. The financial services operations generally receive compensation from the sales companies at approximate market interest rates for periods during which finance charges are waived or reduced on the retail notes or leases. The cost is accounted for as a deduction in arriving at net sales by the equipment operations.



The Company has an agreement with Capital Corporation to make payments to Capital Corporation such that its ratio of earnings to fixed charges is not less than 1.05 to 1 for any fiscal quarter. For 2011 and 2010, Capital Corporation’s ratios were 2.18 to 1 and 1.89 to 1, respectively, and never less than 1.96 to 1 and 1.61 to 1 for any fiscal quarter of 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company has also committed to continue to own at least 51 percent of the voting shares of capital stock of Capital Corporation and to maintain Capital Corporation’s consolidated tangible net worth at not less than $50 million. The Company’s obligations to make payments to Capital Corporation under the agreement are independent of whether Capital Corporation is in default on its indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities. Further, the Company’s obligations under the agreement are not measured by the amount of Capital Corporation’s indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities. The Company’s obligations to make payments under this agreement are expressly stated not to be a guaranty of any specific indebtedness, obligation or liability of Capital Corporation and are enforceable only by or in the name of Capital Corporation. No payments were required under this agreement in 2011 or 2010.



Outside the U.S. and Canada. The financial services operations also offer financing, primarily for John Deere products, in Australia, China, New Zealand, and in several countries in Europe and in Latin America, and has announced plans to offer lease financing in  Russia. In certain areas, financing is offered through cooperation agreements or joint ventures. The manner in which the financial services operations offer financing in these countries is affected by a variety of country specific laws, regulations and customs, including those governing property rights and debtor obligations, that are subject to change and that may introduce greater risk to the financial services operations.



The financial services operations also offer to select customers and dealers credit enhanced international export financing for the purchase of John Deere products.



Capital Expenditures. The financial services operations’ capital expenditures (cost reductions) totaled $2 million in 2011, compared with $(1) million in 2010 and $(5) million in 2009. The capital expenditures for 2010 and 2009 were more than offset by cost reductions due to becoming eligible for government grants for certain wind energy investments related to costs recognized in prior and current periods. Provisions for depreciation applicable to these operations’ property and equipment during these years were $6 million, $64 million and $62 million, respectively. Capital expenditures for the financial services operations in 2011 are not expected to be significant. The Company sold the wind energy business for approximately $900 million after 2010 fiscal year end (see Note 4).



Additional information on the financial services operations appears on pages 20, 21, 23, 25 and 26.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



John Deere is subject to a wide variety of local, state and federal environmental laws and regulations in the U.S., as well as the environmental laws and regulations of other countries in which John Deere conducts business. John Deere strives to comply, and believes it is in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations. However, failure to comply with these regulations could lead to fines and other penalties. John Deere is involved in the evaluation and clean-up of a limited number of sites but does not expect that these matters, or other expenses or liabilities John Deere may incur in connection with any noncompliance with environmental laws or regulations or the cleanup of any additional properties, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows or competitive position of the Company. With respect to acquired properties and businesses or properties and businesses acquired in the future, John Deere conducts due diligence into potential exposure to environmental liabilities, but cannot be certain that it has identified or will identify all adverse environmental conditions. Compliance with these laws and regulations has added, and will continue to add, to the cost of John Deere products.



The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has issued increasingly stringent regulations concerning permissible emissions of off-road engines, and governmental agencies throughout the world are similarly enacting more stringent laws to reduce off-road engine emissions. John Deere has achieved, and plans to continue to achieve, compliance with these regulations through significant investments in the development of new engine technologies and after-treatment systems. Compliance with emissions regulations has added, and will continue to add, to the cost of John Deere’s products.










EMPLOYEES



At October 31, 2011, John Deere had approximately 61,300 full-time employees, including approximately 32,300 employees in the U.S. and Canada. From time to time, John Deere also retains consultants, independent contractors, and temporary and part-time workers. Unions are certified as bargaining agents for approximately 39 percent of John Deere’s U.S. employees. Most of the Company’s U.S. production and maintenance workers are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the United Auto Workers (UAW), with an expiration date of October 1, 2015.



Unions also represent the majority of employees at John Deere manufacturing facilities outside the U.S.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



Following are the names and ages of the executive officers of the Company, their positions with the Company and summaries of their backgrounds and business experience. All executive officers are elected or appointed by the Board of Directors and hold office until the annual meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in each year.



Name, age and office (at December 1, 2011), and year elected to officePrincipal occupation during lastfive years other than officeof the Company currently held

Samuel   R. Allen58Chairman   and Chief Executive Officer2010August 2009-February 2010 President and   Chief Executive Officer; June 2009-August 2009 President and Chief   Operating Officer; 2005-2009 President, Worldwide Construction &   Forestry Division and John Deere Power Systems

David   C. Everitt59President,   Agriculture & Turf Division-North America, Asia, Australia,   Sub-Saharan and South Africa, and Global Tractor and Turf Products2009January 2006-May 2009 President,   Agricultural Division - North America, Australia, Asia and Global   Tractor & Implement Sourcing

James   M. Field48Senior   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer20092007-2009 President, Worldwide   Commercial & Consumer Equipment Division; 2002-2007 Vice President   and Comptroller

Jean   H. Gilles54Senior   Vice President John Deere Power Systems, Worldwide Parts Services, Advanced   Technology and Engineering and Global Supply Management and Logistics2010June 2009-June 2010 Senior Vice   President, John Deere Power Systems, John Deere Intelligent Solutions Group   and Advanced Technology and Engineering; 2005-2009 Senior Vice President,   John Deere Power Systems

James   A. Israel55President,   Worldwide Financial Services Division2006Has held this position for the last five years

James   R. Jenkins66Senior   Vice President and General Counsel2000Has held this position for the last five years

Michael   J. Mack, Jr.55President,   Worldwide Construction & Forestry Division20092006-2009 Senior Vice President and Chief   Financial Officer; 2004-2006 Vice President and Treasurer

Markwart   von Pentz48President,   Agriculture & Turf Division-Europe, CIS, Northern Africa, Middle   East, Latin America, and Global Harvesting, Crop Care, Hay & Forage   Products20092007-2009 President, Agricultural Division -   Europe, Africa, South America and Global Harvesting Equipment Sourcing;   2006-2007 Senior Vice President Marketing and Product Support - Europe,   Africa and Middle East; 2005-2006 Vice President Agricultural Marketing   U.S. & Canada










