ITEM 1.BUSINESS.



Products



Deere & Company (the Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively, John Deere) have operations that are categorized into three major business segments.



Theagriculture and turfsegment primarily manufactures and distributes a full line of agriculture and turf equipment and related service parts — including large, medium and utility tractors; loaders; combines, corn pickers, cotton and sugarcane harvesters and related front-end equipment and sugarcane loaders; tillage, seeding and application equipment, including sprayers, nutrient management and soil preparation machinery; hay and forage equipment, including self-propelled forage harvesters and attachments, balers and mowers; turf and utility equipment, including riding lawn equipment and walk-behind mowers, golf course equipment, utility vehicles, and commercial mowing equipment, along with a broad line of associated implements; integrated agricultural management systems technology and solutions; precision agricultural irrigation equipment and supplies; landscape and nursery products; and other outdoor power products.



Theconstruction and forestrysegment primarily manufactures and distributes a broad range of machines and service parts used in construction, earthmoving, material handling and timber harvesting — including backhoe loaders; crawler dozers and loaders; four-wheel-drive loaders; excavators; motor graders; articulated dump trucks; landscape loaders; skid-steer loaders; and log skidders, feller bunchers, log loaders, log forwarders, log harvesters and related attachments.



The products and services produced by the segments above are marketed primarily through independent retail dealer networks and major retail outlets.



Thefinancial servicessegment primarily finances sales and leases by John Deere dealers of new and used agriculture and turf equipment and construction and forestry equipment. In addition, the financial services segment provides wholesale financing to dealers of the foregoing equipment, finances retail revolving charge accounts and operating loans and offers crop risk-mitigation products and extended equipment warranties.



John Deere’s worldwide agriculture and turf operations and construction and forestry operations are sometimes collectively referred to as the “equipment operations.” The financial services segment is sometimes referred to as the “financial services operations.”



Additional information is presented in the discussion of business segment and geographic area results on pages 24-25. The John Deere enterprise has manufactured agricultural machinery since 1837. The present Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1958.



The Company’s internet address ishttp://www.JohnDeere.com. Through that address, the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (Securities and Exchange Commission or Commission). The information contained on the Company’s website is not included in, or incorporated by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K.



Market Conditions and Outlook



The Company’s equipment sales are projected to decrease by about 3 percent for fiscal year 2014 and decrease about 2 percent for the first quarter, compared with the same periods of 2013. For fiscal year 2014, net income attributable to Deere & Company is anticipated to be approximately $3.3 billion.



Agriculture & Turf.The Company’s worldwide sales of agriculture and turf equipment are forecast to decrease by about 6 percent for fiscal year 2014. The outlook contemplates the sale of a majority interest in the John Deere Landscapes operations. Although commodity prices and farm incomes are expected to remain at healthy levels in 2014 by historical standards, they are forecast to be lower than in 2013. The Company believes the decline will have a dampening effect on demand, primarily for large farm equipment.



Industry sales for agricultural machinery in the United States (U.S.) and Canada are forecast to decrease 5 to 10 percent for 2014, with the decline mainly reflecting lower sales of large equipment such as high-horsepower tractors and combines.











Fiscal year industry sales in the European Union (EU)28 nations are forecast to decrease about 5 percent due to lower commodity prices and farm incomes. In South America, industry sales of tractors and combines are projected to decrease 5 to 10 percent from strong 2013 levels. Industry sales in the Commonwealth of Independent States are expected to decrease slightly for fiscal year 2014, while industry sales in Asia are projected to be slightly higher in fiscal year 2014.



U.S. and Canada industry sales of turf and utility equipment are expected to increase about 5 percent for 2014, reflecting improved market conditions.



Construction & Forestry.The Company’s worldwide sales of construction and forestry equipment are forecast to increase by about 10 percent for fiscal year 2014. The gain reflects further economic recovery and higher housing starts in the U.S. as well as sales increases outside the U.S. and Canada. Global forestry sales are expected to increase for the year due to general economic growth and higher sales in European markets.



Financial Services.Fiscal year 2014 net income attributable to Deere & Company for the financial services operations is expected to be approximately $600 million. The outlook reflects improvement primarily due to continued growth in the credit portfolio, partially offset by a projected increase in the provision for credit losses from the low level in 2013.



2013 Consolidated Results Compared with 2012



Worldwide net income attributable to Deere & Company in 2013 was $3,537 million, or $9.09 per share diluted ($9.18 basic), compared with $3,065 million, or $7.63 per share diluted ($7.72 basic), in 2012. Worldwide net sales and revenues increased 5 percent to $37,795 million in 2013, compared with $36,157 million in 2012. Net sales of the equipment operations increased 4 percent in 2013 to $34,998 million from $33,501 million last year. The sales increase included improved price realization of 3 percent and an unfavorable foreign currency translation effect of 1 percent. Net sales in the U.S. and Canada increased 5 percent in 2013. Outside the U.S. and Canada, net sales increased by 4 percent in 2013, which included an unfavorable effect of 3 percent for foreign currency translation.



Worldwide equipment operations had an operating profit of $5,058 million in 2013, compared with $4,397 million in 2012. The higher operating profit was primarily due to the impact of improved price realization and higher shipment volumes, partially offset by unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange, increased production costs, higher selling, administrative and general expenses, higher warranty costs and impairment charges. The increase in production costs related primarily to higher manufacturing overhead expenses in support of growth, new products and engine emission requirements, partially offset by lower raw material costs.



The equipment operations’ net income was $2,974 million in 2013, compared with $2,616 million in 2012. The same operating factors mentioned above, as well as an increase in interest expense due to higher average borrowings and a higher effective tax rate affected these results.



Net income of the financial services operations attributable to Deere & Company in 2013 increased to $565 million, compared with $460 million in 2012. The increase was primarily a result of growth in the credit portfolio and higher crop insurance margins, partially offset by higher selling, administrative and general expenses. In addition, last year’s results benefited from revenue related to wind energy credits. Additional information is presented in the discussion of the “Worldwide Financial Services Operations” on page 24.



The cost of sales to net sales ratio for 2013 was 73.3 percent, compared with 74.6 percent last year. The improvement was primarily due to the increase in price realization, partially offset by the unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange, higher production costs and increased warranty costs.



Additional information on 2013 results is presented on pages 23-25.



EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS



Agriculture and Turf



The John Deere agriculture and turf segment manufactures and distributes a full line of agriculture and turf equipment and related service parts. The segment’s global operating model is designed to enable faster geographic growth and increase the segment’s competitiveness. Under this model, the segment consolidates all markets into four geographical customer focus areas to facilitate deep











customer understanding and deliver better customer service. The segment’s equipment operations are consolidated into five product platforms — crop harvesting (combines, corn pickers, cotton and sugarcane harvesters and related front-end equipment and sugarcane loaders); turf and utility (utility vehicles, riding lawn equipment, walk-behind mowers, commercial mowing equipment, golf course equipment, implements for mowing, tilling, snow and debris handling, aerating and many other residential, commercial, golf and sports turf care applications and other outdoor power products); hay and forage (self-propelled forage harvesters and attachments, balers and mowers); crop care (tillage, seeding and application equipment, including sprayers, nutrient management and soil preparation machinery); and tractors (loaders and large, medium and utility tractors and related attachments). John Deere also purchases certain products from other manufacturers for resale.



The segment also offers ancillary products and services supporting its agriculture and turf equipment customers. John Deere Landscapes, a unit of the segment, distributes irrigation equipment, nursery products and landscape supplies, including seed, fertilizer and hardscape materials, primarily to landscape service professionals. In October 2013, the Company entered into an investment agreement with a private equity investment firm for the sale of a majority of John Deere Landscapes. John Deere Water, also a unit of the agriculture and turf segment, manufactures and distributes precision agricultural irrigation equipment and supplies. The Company is reviewing strategic options for John Deere Water and has retained Bank of America Merrill Lynch as exclusive financial advisor to assist in the initiative.



The segment also provides integrated agricultural business and equipment management systems. John Deere has developed a comprehensive agricultural management systems approach using advanced communications, data collection and global satellite positioning technologies to enable farmers to better control input costs and yields, improve soil conservation and minimize chemical use, and to gather information. John Deere’s advanced telematics systems remotely connect agricultural equipment owners, business managers and dealers to agricultural equipment in the field, providing real-time alerts and information about equipment location, utilization, performance and maintenance to improve productivity and efficiency.



In addition to the John Deere brand, the agriculture and turf segment purchases and sells a variety of equipment attachments under the Frontier, Kemper and Green Systems brand names, and manufactures and sells walk-behind mowers and scarifiers in select European countries under the SABO brand name. John Deere manufactures its agriculture and turf equipment for sale primarily through independent retail dealer networks, and also builds products for sale by mass retailers, including The Home Depot and Lowe’s.



Sales of agricultural equipment are affected by total farm cash receipts, which reflect levels of farm commodity prices, acreage planted, crop yields and government policies, including the amount and timing of government payments. Sales are also influenced by general economic conditions, farm land prices, farmers’ debt levels and access to financing, interest and exchange rates, agricultural trends, including the production of and demand for renewable fuels, labor availability and costs, energy costs and other input costs associated with farming. Other important factors affecting new agricultural equipment sales are the value and level of used equipment, including tractors, harvesting equipment, self-propelled sprayers, hay and forage equipment and seeding equipment. Weather and climatic conditions can also affect buying decisions of agricultural equipment purchasers.



Innovations in machinery and technology also influence agricultural equipment purchasing. For example, larger, more productive equipment is well accepted where farmers are striving for more efficiency in their operations. Large, cost-efficient, highly-mechanized agricultural operations account for an important share of worldwide farm output. The large-size agricultural equipment used on such farms has been particularly important to John Deere. A large proportion of the equipment operations’ total agricultural equipment sales in the U.S. and Canada, and a growing proportion of sales in many countries outside the U.S. and Canada, comprises tractors over 100 horsepower, self-propelled combines, self-propelled cotton pickers, self-propelled forage harvesters, self-propelled sprayers and seeding equipment. However, as John Deere expands its business globally, especially in developing countries where demand for smaller equipment is greater, John Deere’s sales of small tractors below 100 horsepower are increasing, and John Deere offers a number of harvesting solutions to support development of the mechanized harvesting of grain, oilseeds, cotton, sugar and biomass.



Retail sales of lawn and garden tractors, compact utility tractors, residential and commercial mowers, utility vehicles, and golf and turf equipment are influenced by weather conditions, consumer spending patterns and general economic conditions.



Seasonality. Seasonal patterns in retail demand for agricultural equipment result in substantial variations in the volume and mix of products sold to retail customers during the year. Seasonal demand must be estimated in advance, and equipment must be manufactured in anticipation of such demand in order to achieve efficient utilization of manpower and facilities throughout the year. For certain equipment, John Deere offers early order discounts to retail customers. Production schedules are based, in part, on these early order programs. The segment incurs substantial seasonal variation in cash flows to finance production and inventory of agricultural equipment. The segment also incurs costs to finance sales to dealers in advance of seasonal demand. New combine and











cotton harvesting equipment has been sold under early order programs with waivers of retail finance charges available to customers who take delivery of machines during off-season periods. In Australia, Canada and the U.S., there are typically several used equipment trade-in transactions as part of most new agricultural equipment sales. To provide support to its dealers for these used equipment trade-ins, John Deere provides dealers in these countries with a pool of funds, awarded to dealers as a percentage of the dealer cost for eligible new equipment sales. Dealers can use these funds to defray the costs of carrying or marketing used equipment inventory or to provide financing incentives to customers purchasing the used equipment.



Retail demand for turf and utility equipment is normally higher in the second and third fiscal quarters. John Deere is pursuing a strategy of building and shipping such equipment as close to retail demand as possible. Consequently, to increase asset turnover and reduce the average level of field inventories through the year, production and shipment schedules of these product lines will normally be proportionately higher in the second and third fiscal quarters of each year, corresponding closely to the seasonal pattern of retail sales.



Construction and Forestry



John Deere construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment includes a broad range of backhoe loaders, crawler dozers and loaders, four-wheel-drive loaders, excavators, motor graders, articulated dump trucks, landscape loaders, skid-steer loaders, log skidders, log feller bunchers, log loaders, log forwarders, log harvesters and a variety of attachments. John Deere provides the most complete line of forestry machines and attachments available in the world. The segment’s forestry machines are distributed under the John Deere brand name, and forestry attachments are distributed under the John Deere and Waratah brand names. In addition to the equipment manufactured by the construction and forestry segment, John Deere purchases certain products from other manufacturers for resale. The segment also provides comprehensive fleet management telematics solutions designed to improve customer productivity and efficiency through access to fleet location, utilization and maintenance information.



The prevailing levels of residential, commercial and public construction and the condition of the forestry products industry influence retail sales of John Deere construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment. General economic conditions, the level of interest rates, the availability of credit and certain commodity prices such as those applicable to pulp, paper and saw logs also influence sales.



Pursuant to agreements between John Deere and Bell Equipment Limited (Bell), Bell licenses John Deere to manufacture articulated dump trucks in the U.S. for John Deere’s distribution under the John Deere brand name in North, Central and South America. John Deere licenses Bell to manufacture and sell certain John Deere-designed construction equipment in specified territories of Africa. Bell is also the distributor of certain John Deere-manufactured construction equipment under the Bell brand and forestry equipment under the John Deere brand in certain territories of Africa. Bell and John Deere have agreed to terminate the articulated dump truck manufacturing and license agreements over the next few years.



John Deere and Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (Hitachi) have a joint venture for the manufacture of hydraulic excavators and tracked forestry equipment and loaders in the U.S. and Canada and a joint venture for the manufacture of excavators in Brazil. John Deere distributes Hitachi brands of construction and mining equipment in North, Central and South America. John Deere also has supply agreements with Hitachi under which a range of construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment manufactured by John Deere in the U.S., Finland and New Zealand is distributed by Hitachi in certain Asian markets.



In India, the construction and forestry division manufactures construction equipment branded Leyland Deere through its joint venture with Ashok Leyland Limited, known as Ashok Leyland John Deere Construction Equipment Company Private Limited (ALJD).The division has also established manufacturing capacity for construction equipment in China and Brazil.



The segment has a number of initiatives in the rent-to-rent, or short-term rental, market for construction, earthmoving and material handling equipment. These include specially designed rental programs for John Deere dealers and expanded cooperation with major, national equipment rental companies.



John Deere also owns Nortrax, Inc. that in turn owns Nortrax Canada Inc. that in turn owns Nortrax Quebec Inc. (collectively called Nortrax). Nortrax is an authorized John Deere dealer for construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment in a variety of markets in the U.S. and Canada. John Deere also owns a retail construction and forestry sales operation in Russia and owns retail forestry sales operations in Australia, Brazil, Finland, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom.











Competition



The equipment operations sell products and services into a variety of highly competitive global and regional markets. The principal competitive factors in all markets include product performance, innovation and quality, distribution, customer service and price. In North America and many other parts of the world, John Deere’s brand recognition is a competitive factor.





The construction and forestry segment operates in highly competitive North American and global markets and is seeking to grow its competitive position in other parts of the world, including Brazil, China, India and Russia. Global competitors of the construction and forestry segment include Caterpillar Inc., Komatsu Ltd., Volvo Construction Equipment (part of Volvo Group AB), CNH Global N.V., Tigercat Industries Inc. and Ponsse Plc. The segment manufactures construction, earthmoving and material handling equipment for over 90 percent of the types of construction equipment used in the U.S. and Canada.



Engineering and Research



John Deere invests heavily in engineering and research to improve the quality and performance of its products, to develop new products and to comply with government regulations. Such expenditures were $1,477 million, or 4.2 percent of net sales, in 2013, $1,434 million, or 4.3 percent of net sales, in 2012 and $1,226 million, or 4.2 percent of net sales, in 2011.



Manufacturing



Manufacturing Plants. In the U.S. and Canada, the equipment operations own and operate 20 factory locations and lease and operate another six locations, which contain approximately 27.7 million square feet of floor space. Of these 26 factories, 17 are devoted primarily to agriculture and turf equipment, four to construction and forestry equipment, one to engines, two to engine and component remanufacturing and two to hydraulic and power train components. Outside the U.S. and Canada, the equipment operations own or lease and operate: agriculture and turf equipment factories in Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Mexico, the Netherlands, Russia and Spain; construction equipment factories in Brazil and China; engine factories in Argentina, China, France, India and Mexico; and forestry equipment factories in Finland and New Zealand. In addition, John Deere Water has manufacturing operations outside North America in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, France, India, Israel and Spain. These factories and manufacturing operations outside the U.S. and Canada contain approximately 20.8 million square feet of floor space. The engine factories referred to above manufacture non-road, heavy duty diesel engines, a majority of which are manufactured for John Deere’s equipment operations. The remaining engines are sold to other regional and global original equipment manufacturers.



The equipment operations also have financial interests in other manufacturing organizations, which include agricultural equipment manufacturers in the U.S., Bell in South Africa, the Hitachi joint venture that builds hydraulic excavators and track log loaders in the U.S. and Canada and the Hitachi joint venture that will build hydraulic excavators in Brazil, the ALJD joint venture that builds backhoes and will build four-wheel-drive loaders in India, ventures that manufacture transaxles and transmissions used in certain agriculture and turf segment products and a venture that remanufactures turbochargers, diesel particulate filters and electronics.



John Deere’s facilities are well maintained, in good operating condition and suitable for their present purposes. These facilities, together with both short-term and long-term planned capital expenditures, are expected to meet John Deere’s manufacturing needs in the foreseeable future.











Existing capacity is adequate to satisfy John Deere’s current expectations for retail market demand. The equipment operations’ manufacturing strategy involves the implementation of appropriate levels of technology and automation to allow manufacturing processes to remain profitable at varying production levels. Operations are also designed to be flexible enough to accommodate the product design changes required to meet market conditions and changing customer requirements. Common manufacturing facilities and techniques are employed in the production of components for agriculture and turf equipment and construction and forestry equipment.



In order to utilize manufacturing facilities and technology more effectively, the equipment operations pursue continuous improvements in manufacturing processes. These include steps to streamline manufacturing processes and enhance responsiveness to customers. John Deere has implemented flexible assembly lines that can accommodate a wider product mix and deliver products in line with dealer and customer demand. Additionally, considerable effort is being directed to manufacturing cost reduction through process improvement, product design, advanced manufacturing technology, enhanced environmental management systems, supply management and logistics as well as compensation incentives related to productivity and organizational structure. In past years, John Deere has experienced volatility in the price of many raw materials. John Deere has responded to cost pressures by implementing the cost-reduction measures described above and by increasing prices. Significant cost increases, if they occur, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. The equipment operations also pursue external sales of selected parts and components that can be manufactured and supplied to third parties on a competitive basis.



Capital Expenditures.The equipment operations’ capital expenditures totaled $1,129 million in 2013, compared with $1,357 million in 2012 and $1,047 million in 2011. Provisions for depreciation applicable to these operations’ property and equipment during these years were $630 million, $549 million and $510 million, respectively. Capital expenditures for the equipment operations in 2014 are currently estimated to be approximately $1,200 million. The 2014 expenditures will relate primarily to the modernization and restructuring of key manufacturing facilities, U.S. Tier 4 emission requirements, the construction of new manufacturing facilities and the development of new products. Future levels of capital expenditures will depend on business conditions.



Patents and Trademarks



John Deere owns a significant number of patents, trade secrets, licenses and trademarks related to John Deere products and services, and expects the number to grow as John Deere continues to pursue technological innovations. John Deere’s policy is to further its competitive position by filing patent applications in the U.S. and internationally to protect technology and improvements considered important to the business. John Deere believes that, in the aggregate, the rights under these patents and licenses are generally important to its operations and competitive position, but does not regard any of its businesses as being dependent upon any single patent or group of patents. However, certain John Deere trademarks, which contribute to John Deere’s identity and the recognition of its products and services, including but not limited to the “John Deere” mark, the leaping deer logo, the “Nothing Runs Like a Deere” slogan, the prefix “JD” associated with many products and green and yellow equipment colors, are an integral part of John Deere’s business, and their loss could have a material adverse effect on John Deere.



Marketing



In the U.S. and Canada, the equipment operations distribute equipment and service parts through the following facilities: two agriculture and turf equipment sales and administration offices located in Olathe, Kansas and Cary, North Carolina and one sales branch located in Grimsby, Ontario; and one construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment sales and administration office located in Moline, Illinois. In addition, the equipment operations operate a centralized parts distribution warehouse in coordination with eight regional parts depots and distribution centers in the U.S. and Canada.



Through these U.S. and Canadian facilities, John Deere markets products to approximately 2,438 dealer locations, most of which are independently owned and operated. Of these, approximately 1,539 sell agricultural equipment, while approximately 428 sell construction, earthmoving, material handling and/or forestry equipment. Nortrax owns some of the 428 dealer locations. Turf equipment is sold at most John Deere agricultural equipment locations, a few construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment locations and about 471 turf-only locations, many of which also sell dissimilar lines of non-John Deere products. In addition, certain lawn and garden product lines are sold through The Home Depot and Lowe’s. John Deere Landscapes operates its business from approximately 400 branch locations throughout the U.S. and Canada.



Outside the U.S. and Canada, John Deere agriculture and turf equipment is sold to distributors and dealers for resale in over 100 countries. Sales and administrative offices are located in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, Netherlands, Poland, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine and the United Kingdom and an administrative office is located in Kenya. Associated companies doing business in China also sell agricultural equipment. Turf equipment sales outside the U.S. and Canada occur primarily in Europe and Australia. Construction, earthmoving,











material handling and forestry equipment is sold to distributors and dealers primarily by sales offices located in Australia, Brazil, Finland, Ireland, New Zealand, Russia and Singapore. Some of these dealers are independently owned while John Deere owns others. The equipment operations operate centralized parts distribution warehouses in Brazil, Germany and Russia in coordination with regional parts depots and distribution centers in Argentina, Australia, China, India, Mexico, South Africa, Sweden and the United Kingdom.



John Deere Water operates from 19 sales and marketing locations and 19 warehousing locations in 15 countries including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, Ecuador, France, India, Israel, Italy, Mexico, Russia, Spain, Turkey and the U.S. John Deere Water’s products are marketed through approximately 700 independent dealers and distributors in over 100 countries.



John Deere engines are marketed worldwide through select sales branches to large original equipment manufacturers and independently owned engine distributors.



Raw Materials



John Deere purchases raw materials and some manufactured components and replacement parts for its equipment, engines and other products from leading suppliers both domestically and internationally. These materials and components include a variety of steel products, steel and iron castings, forgings, plastics, electronics and ready-to-assemble components made to certain specifications. John Deere also purchases various goods and services used in production, logistics, offices and research and development processes. John Deere maintains strategic sourcing models to meet its production needs and build upon long-term supplier relationships. John Deere uses a variety of agreements with suppliers intended to drive innovation, ensure availability and delivery of industry-leading quality raw materials and components, manage costs on a globally competitive basis, protect John Deere’s intellectual property and minimize other supply-related risks. Supply chain risks monitored by John Deere to minimize the likelihood of the supply base causing business disruption include supplier financial viability, capacity, business continuity, quality and delivery and weather-related events including natural disasters. In fiscal year 2013, John Deere experienced no significant work stoppages as a result of shortages of raw materials or other commodities.



Backlog Orders



The dollar amount of backlog orders for the agriculture and turf segment believed to be firm was approximately $6.3 billion at October 31, 2013, compared with $5.5 billion at October 31, 2012. The agriculture and turf backlog is generally highest in the second and third quarters due to seasonal buying trends in these industries. John Deere generally produces and ships its construction and forestry equipment on average within approximately 60 days after an order is deemed to become firm. Therefore, no significant amount of construction and forestry backlog orders accumulates during any period.



Trade Accounts and Notes Receivable



Trade accounts and notes receivable arise primarily from sales of goods to independent dealers. Most trade receivables originated by the equipment operations are purchased by the financial services operations. The equipment operations compensate the financial services operations at approximate market rates of interest for these receivables. Additional information appears in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



FINANCIAL SERVICES



U.S. and Canada. The financial services segment primarily provides and administers financing for retail purchases from John Deere dealers of new equipment manufactured by John Deere’s agriculture and turf and construction and forestry segments and used equipment taken in trade for this equipment.



The Company and John Deere Construction & Forestry Company (a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company) are referred to as the “sales companies.” John Deere Capital Corporation (Capital Corporation), a U.S. financial services subsidiary, generally purchases retail installment sales and loan contracts (retail notes) from the sales companies. These retail notes are acquired by the sales companies through John Deere retail dealers in the U.S. John Deere Financial Inc., a Canadian financial services subsidiary, purchases and finances retail notes acquired by John Deere Canada ULC, the Company’s Canadian sales branch. The terms of retail notes and the basis on which the financial services operations acquire retail notes from the sales companies are governed by agreements with the sales companies. The financial services segment also finances and services revolving charge accounts, in most cases acquired from and offered through merchants in the agriculture and turf and construction and forestry markets (revolving charge accounts). Further,











the financial services operations finance and service operating loans. Additionally, the financial services operations provide wholesale financing for inventories of John Deere agriculture and turf equipment and construction and forestry equipment owned by dealers of those products (wholesale notes). The various financing options offered by the financial services operations are designed to enhance sales of John Deere products and generate financing income for the financial services operations. In the U.S., certain subsidiaries included in the financial services segment offer crop risk mitigation products and certain subsidiaries offer extended equipment warranties.



Retail notes acquired by the sales companies are immediately sold to the financial services operations. The equipment operations are the financial services operations’ major source of business, but many retail purchasers of John Deere products finance their purchases outside the John Deere organization through a variety of sources, including commercial banks and finance and leasing companies.



The financial services operations offer retail leases to equipment users in the U.S. A small number of leases are executed with units of local government. Leases are usually written for periods of four months to sixty months, and typically contain an option permitting the customer to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term. Retail leases are also offered in a generally similar manner to customers in Canada through John Deere Financial Inc. and John Deere Canada ULC.



The financial services operations’ terms for financing equipment retail sales (other than smaller items financed with unsecured revolving charge accounts) provide for retention of a security interest in the equipment financed. The financial services operations’ guidelines for minimum down payments, which vary with the types of equipment and repayment provisions, are generally 10 percent to 30 percent. Finance charges are sometimes waived for specified periods or reduced on certain John Deere products sold or leased in advance of the season of use or in other sales promotions. The financial services operations generally receive compensation from the sales companies at approximate market interest rates for periods during which finance charges are waived or reduced on the retail notes or leases. The cost is accounted for as a deduction in arriving at net sales by the equipment operations.



The Company has an agreement with Capital Corporation to make payments to Capital Corporation such that its ratio of earnings to fixed charges is not less than 1.05 to 1 for any fiscal quarter. For 2013 and 2012, Capital Corporation’s ratios were 3.04 to 1 and 2.30 to 1, respectively, and never less than 2.75 to 1 and 2.02 to 1 for any fiscal quarter of 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Company has also committed to continue to own, directly or through one or more wholly-owned subsidiaries, at least 51 percent of the voting shares of capital stock of Capital Corporation and to maintain Capital Corporation’s consolidated tangible net worth at not less than $50 million. The Company’s obligations to make payments to Capital Corporation under the agreement are independent of whether Capital Corporation is in default on its indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities. Further, the Company’s obligations under the agreement are not measured by the amount of Capital Corporation’s indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities. The Company’s obligations to make payments under this agreement are expressly stated not to be a guaranty of any specific indebtedness, obligation or liability of Capital Corporation and are enforceable only by or in the name of Capital Corporation. No payments were required under this agreement in 2013 or 2012.



Outside the U.S. and Canada. The financial services operations also offer financing, primarily for John Deere products, in Australia, Brazil, China, India, New Zealand, Russia, Thailand and in several other countries in Asia, Europe and Latin America. In certain areas, financing is offered through cooperation agreements or joint ventures. The manner in which the financial services operations offer financing in these countries is affected by a variety of country specific laws, regulations and customs, including those governing property rights and debtor obligations, that are subject to change and that may introduce greater risk to the financial services operations.



The financial services operations also offer to select customers and dealers credit enhanced international export financing for the purchase of John Deere products.



Additional information on the financial services operations appears on pages 24, 25, 27, 28 and 30.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



John Deere is subject to a wide variety of local, state and federal environmental laws and regulations in the U.S., as well as the environmental laws and regulations of other countries in which John Deere conducts business. John Deere strives to comply and believes it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations. However, failure to comply with these regulations could lead to fines and other penalties. John Deere is involved in the evaluation and clean-up of a limited number of sites but does not expect that these matters or other expenses or liabilities John Deere may incur in connection with any noncompliance with environmental laws or regulations or the cleanup of any additional properties, will have a material adverse effect on the











consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows or competitive position of John Deere. With respect to acquired properties and businesses or properties and businesses acquired in the future, John Deere conducts due diligence into potential exposure to environmental liabilities, but cannot be certain that it has identified or will identify all adverse environmental conditions. Compliance with these laws and regulations has added, and will continue to add, to the cost of John Deere’s products.



The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has issued increasingly stringent regulations concerning permissible emissions of off-road engines, and governmental agencies throughout the world are similarly enacting more stringent laws to reduce off-road engine emissions. John Deere has achieved and plans to continue to achieve compliance with these regulations through significant investments in the development of new engine technologies and after-treatment systems. Compliance with emissions regulations has added and will continue to add to the cost of John Deere’s products.



EMPLOYEES



At October 31, 2013, John Deere had approximately 67,000 full-time employees, including approximately 33,900 employees in the U.S. and Canada. John Deere also retains consultants, independent contractors, and temporary and part-time workers. Unions are certified as bargaining agents for approximately 83 percent of John Deere’s U.S. production and maintenance employees. Approximately 11,300 of John Deere’s U.S. production and maintenance workers are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the United Auto Workers (UAW), with an expiration date of October 1, 2015.



Unions also represent the majority of employees at John Deere manufacturing facilities outside the U.S.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



Following are the names and ages of the executive officers of the Company, their positions with the Company and summaries of their backgrounds and business experience. All executive officers are elected or appointed by the Board of Directors and hold office until the annual meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in each year.



Name, age and office (at December 1, 2013), and year elected to officePrincipal occupation during lastfive years other than officeof the Company currently held

Samuel R. Allen60Chairman and Chief Executive Officer20102009 –2010 President and Chief Executive   Officer; 2009 President and Chief Operating Officer; 2005 – 2009 President,   Worldwide Construction & Forestry Division and John Deere Power Systems

James M. Field50President, Agriculture & Turf Division-20122009 –2012, Senior Vice

Global Harvesting & Turf Platforms, Americas and AustraliaPresident and Chief Financial Officer; 2007   – 2009 President, Worldwide Commercial & Consumer Equipment Division

Jean H. Gilles56Senior Vice President, John Deere Power Systems, Worldwide Parts   Services, Advanced Technology & Engineering and Global Supply   Management and Logistics20102009 –2010 Senior Vice President, John   Deere Power Systems, John Deere Intelligent Solutions Group and Advanced   Technology and Engineering; 2005 – 2009 Senior Vice President, John Deere   Power Systems

Max A. Guinn55Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Communications, Public   Affairs and Labor Relations20122009 – 2012 Senior Vice President   Agriculture & Turf Division, Global Platform, Crop Harvesting; 2006   – 2009 Senior Vice President, Manufacturing & Engineering,   Harvesting Equipment

James A. Israel57President, Worldwide Financial Services Division2006Has held this position for the last five   years

Mary K.W. Jones45Senior Vice President and General Counsel20132010 – 2013 Vice President Global Human   Resources; 2009 – 2010











Director, Global Human Resources   Deployment; 2008 – 2009 Director, Regional Human Resources and Shared Services;   2008 Corporate Secretary and Associate General Counsel; 2005 – 2008 Associate   General Counsel Special Litigation & ComplianceRajesh Kalathur45Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer20122012 Assistant Financial Officer; 2009 – 2012   Vice President, Sales & Marketing, China/India/South and East   Asia/Sub-Saharan and South Africa, Agriculture & Turf Division; 2006   –2009 Managing Director and CEO, John Deere India Private Limited, a wholly   owned subsidiary of the CompanyMichael J. Mack, Jr.57President, Worldwide Construction & Forestry Division20092006 – 2009 Senior Vice President and Chief   Financial OfficerJohn C. May44President, Agricultural Solutions & Chief Information   Officer20122009 – 2012 Vice President, Agriculture &   Turf Global Platform, Turf & Utility; 2007 – 2009 Factory Manager,   John Deere Dubuque WorksMarkwart von Pentz50President, Agriculture & Turf Division-Europe, Asia, Africa,   and Global Tractor Platform20122009 – 2012 President,   Agriculture & Turf Division-Europe, CIS, Northern Africa, Middle   East, Latin America, and Global Harvesting, Crop Care, Hay & Forage   Products; 2007 – 2009 President, Agricultural Division - Europe, Africa,   South America and Global Harvesting Equipment Sourcing



