Item 1. Business

History and Development of the Company

Norwegian Cruise Line commenced operations out of
Miami in 1966. In February 2000, Genting HK acquired control of and subsequently became the sole owner of the Norwegian Cruise Line operations.

In January 2008, the Apollo Funds acquired 50% of the outstanding ordinary share capital of NCLC. As part of this investment, the Apollo Funds assumed
control of NCLC’s Board of Directors. Also, in January 2008, the TPG Viking Funds acquired, in the aggregate, 12.5% of NCLC’s outstanding share capital from the Apollo Funds. As a result of the aforementioned transactions, the relative
ownership percentages of NCLC’s ordinary shares were as follows: Genting HK (50.0%), the Apollo Funds (37.5%) and the TPG Viking Funds (12.5%).

Our Sponsors

Apollo

Apollo is a leading global alternative investment manager with offices in New York, Los Angeles, Houston, London, Frankfurt, Luxembourg, Singapore, Hong Kong and Mumbai. As of December 31, 2012, Apollo
had assets under management of $113 billion invested in its private equity, capital markets and real estate businesses. Apollo owns a controlling interest in Prestige Cruises International, Inc. which operates through two distinct upscale cruise
brands, Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises. Investment funds managed by Apollo also have current and past investments in other travel and leisure companies, including Caesars Entertainment, Great Wolf Resorts, Vail Resorts, AMC
Entertainment, Wyndham International and other hotel properties.

TPG

TPG is a leading global private investment firm founded in 1992 with more than $54.5 billion of assets under management as of September 30, 2012. TPG has extensive experience with global public and
private investments executed through leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations, spinouts, joint ventures and restructurings. TPG seeks to invest in world-class franchises across a range of industries. Prior and current investments include Alltel, Burger
King, Caesars Entertainment, Continental, Fairmont Raffles, Hotwire, J. Crew, Neiman Marcus, Sabre, Seagate, Texas Genco, Energy Future Holdings (formerly TXU) and Univision.

Genting HK

Genting HK was founded in 1993 and through its subsidiary, Star Cruises Asia
Holding Ltd., operates a leading cruise line in the Asia-Pacific region. Its headquarters are located in Hong Kong and it is represented in more than 20 locations worldwide, with offices and representatives in Asia, Australia, Europe, United Arab
Emirates and the U.S. Genting HK currently has a fleet of five ships, which offer various cruise itineraries in the Asia-Pacific region.

Corporate Reorganization

In February
2011, NCLH, a Bermuda exempted limited liability company, was formed with the issuance of 10,000 ordinary shares at $.001 per share. On January 24, 2013, NCLH completed the IPO. In connection with the consummation of the IPO, NCLC’s
ordinary shares were exchanged for the ordinary shares of NCLH’s, and NCLH became the owner of 100% of the ordinary shares (representing a 97.3% economic interest) and parent company of NCLC (the “Corporate Reorganization”). The
Corporate Reorganization was effected solely for the purpose of reorganizing our corporate structure. NCLH had not, prior to the completion of the Corporate Reorganization, conducted any activities other than those incidental to its formation
and to preparations for the Corporate Reorganization and the IPO. Following the IPO, the relative ownership percentages of NCLH’s ordinary shares were as follows: Genting HK (43.4%), the Apollo Funds (32.5%), the TPG Viking Funds
(10.8%) and public shareholders (13.3%). NCLH is treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.







NCLC is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and the terms of the partnership
(including the economic rights with respect thereto) are set forth in an amended and restated tax agreement for NCLC. Economic interests in NCLC are represented by the partnership interests established under the tax agreement, which we refer to as
“NCL Corporation Units.” The NCL Corporation Units held by NCLH (as a result of its ownership of 100% of the ordinary shares of NCLC) currently represent a 97.3% economic interest in NCLC.

In connection with the Corporate Reorganization, NCLC’s outstanding profits interests granted under the Profits Sharing Agreement to management (or
former management) of NCLC, including the Ordinary Profits Units described below in “Compensation Discussion & Analysis,” were exchanged for an economically equivalent number of NCL Corporation Units. We refer to the NCL
Corporation Units exchanged for profits interests granted under the Profits Sharing Agreement as “Management NCL Corporation Units”. The Management NCL Corporation Units received upon the exchange of outstanding profits interests are
subject to the same time-based vesting requirements and performance-based vesting requirements applicable to the profits interests for which they were exchanged. The Management NCL Corporation Units issued in exchange for the profits interests
currently represent a 2.7% economic interest in NCLC.

NCL Corporation Units are not transferrable without NCLH’s prior consent and do
not entitle the holders to any voting, pre-emptive, or sinking fund rights. Any distributions (other than the tax distributions described below) made by NCLC are allocated on a pro rata basis to NCLH and the holders of the Management NCL Corporation
Units, based upon the total number of NCL Corporation Units (including Management NCL Corporation Units) outstanding. Distributions by NCLC to NCLH or holders of Management NCL Corporation Units do not entitle holders of ordinary shares of NCLH to
any portion of such distribution or to any additional distribution by NCLH.

NCLC does not have any current plans to make any distributions,
other than tax distributions which may occur in the future. To the extent funds are legally available, NCLC will make cash distributions, which we refer to as “tax distributions,” to holders of the NCL Corporation Units (including the
Management NCL Corporation Units) if ownership of the NCL Corporation Units gives rise to U.S. taxable income for the holder. The U.S. taxable income attributable to NCLH’s ownership of NCL Corporation Units may be different from the relative
U.S. taxable income attributable to the Management NCL Corporation Units. In that case, tax distributions may be made on a non-pro rata basis with the holders of Management NCL Corporation Units possibly receiving relative tax distributions greater
than the tax distributions received by NCLH.

Holders of NCL Corporation Units (including the Management NCL Corporation Units prior to
exchange for ordinary shares of NCLH, as described below) may be entitled to recover on account of the economic interest represented by those units in a bankruptcy or other insolvency event of NCLC or NCLH (even if NCLH incurs debt or other claims
that are senior to its ordinary shares). In contrast, the rights of the holders of NCLH’s ordinary shares will be potentially junior to the debt or senior claims (if any) incurred by NCLH in a bankruptcy or other insolvency event. In this
respect, the NCL Corporation Units (including the Management NCL Corporation Units) may be considered, in some cases, to be potentially structurally superior to those of the holders of ordinary shares of NCLH in a bankruptcy or other insolvency
event for NCLH and NCLC.







If and when any holder of a Management NCL Corporation Unit exchanges such unit for one of NCLH’s ordinary shares (or a cash payment equal to the value of one of its ordinary shares), the
relative economic interests of the exchanging NCL Corporation Unit holder and the holders of ordinary shares of NCLH will not be altered. No new NCLC profits interests or Management NCL Corporation Units will be issued; however, NCLH has granted
options to acquire its ordinary shares to our management team under its new long-term incentive plan.

NCLH’s executive officers and
directors are the same as the executive officers and directors of NCLC in effect immediately prior to the Corporate Reorganization. Within 90 days following the consummation of the IPO, our board of directors (“Board of Directors”) will
consist of nine directors, including five directors designated by the Apollo Funds, two directors designated by Genting HK and two independent directors (one designated by the Apollo Funds and one designated by Genting HK). We refer you to
“Item 13— Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.”

Additional Information

We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda. Our registered offices are located at Cumberland House, 9th Floor, 1 Victoria Street,
Hamilton HM 11, Bermuda. Our principal executive offices are located at 7665 Corporate Center Drive, Miami, Florida 33126. Our telephone number is (305) 436-4000. The website for Norwegian Cruise Line is located at www.investor.ncl.com.
Information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this or any other report filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Daniel S. Farkas, the Company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel,
is our agent for service of process at our principal executive offices.

Our Company

We are a leading global cruise line operator, offering cruise experiences for travelers with a wide variety of itineraries in North America (including
Alaska and Hawaii), the Mediterranean, the Baltic, Central America, Bermuda and the Caribbean. We strive to offer an innovative and differentiated cruise vacation with the goal of providing our guests the highest levels of overall satisfaction on
their cruise experience. In turn, we aim to generate the highest guest loyalty and greatest numbers of repeat guests. We created a distinctive style of cruising called “Freestyle Cruising” onboard all of our ships, which we believe
provides our guests with the freedom and flexibility associated with a resort style atmosphere and experience as well as more dining options than a traditional cruise. We established the very first private island developed by a cruise line in the
Bahamas with a diverse offering of activities for guests. We are also the only cruise line operator to offer an entirely inter-island itinerary in Hawaii.

By providing such a distinctive experience and appealing combination of value and service, we straddle both the contemporary and premium segments. As a result, we have been recognized for our achievements
as the recipient of multiple honorary awards mainly consisting of reviews tabulated from the readers of travel periodicals such as Travel Weekly, Condé Nast Traveler, and Travel + Leisure. We were rated as the favorite cruise line by Budget
Travel, and best for family cruises by Family Circle, Yahoo! Travel, and Today Travel. In addition, we were recognized as Europe’s leading cruise line five years in a row by the World Travel Awards and identified as the cruise line with
the best use of a social media platform by Travel + Leisure. Our newest ship, Norwegian Epic, was recognized as “Best Overall Individual Cruise Ship” by the Travel Weekly Readers’ Choice Awards two years in a row.

We offer a wide variety of cruises ranging in length from one day to three weeks. During 2012, we docked at approximately 114 ports worldwide, with
itineraries originating from 15 ports of which 11 are in North America. In line with our strategy of innovation, many of these North American ports are part of our “Homeland Cruising” program in which we have homeports that are close to
major population centers, such as New York, Boston and Miami. This reduces the need for vacationers to fly to distant ports to embark on a cruise and helps reduce our guests’ overall vacation cost. We offer a wide selection of exotic
itineraries outside of the traditional cruising markets of the Caribbean and Mexico; these include cruises in Europe, including the Mediterranean and the Baltic, Bermuda, Alaska, and the industry’s only entirely inter-island itinerary in Hawaii
with our U.S.-flagged ship, Pride of America. This itinerary is unparalleled in the cruise industry, as all other vessels from competing cruise lines are registered outside the U.S. and are required to dock at a distant foreign port when providing
their guests with a Hawaii-based cruise itinerary.

Each of our 11 modern ships has been purpose-built to consistently deliver our
“Freestyle Cruising” product offering across our entire fleet, which we believe provides us with a competitive advantage. By focusing on “Freestyle Cruising,” we have been able to achieve higher onboard spend levels, greater
customer loyalty and the ability to attract a more diverse clientele.







As a result of our strong operating performance over the last four years, the growing demand we see for our
distinctive cruise offering, and the rational supply outlook for the industry, we believe that it is an optimal time to add new ships to our fleet. In 2010, we placed an order with Meyer Werft GmbH of Papenburg, Germany (“Meyer Werft”) for
two new cruise ships, Norwegian Breakaway and Norwegian Getaway, which are scheduled for delivery in April 2013 and January 2014, respectively, in order to continue to grow the Norwegian brand and drive shareholder value. Most recently, in October
2012, we reached an agreement with Meyer Werft to build a new cruise ship for delivery in the fourth quarter of 2015 with an option to build a second ship with an expected delivery date in spring 2017. Currently referred to as “Breakaway
Plus,” this new ship will be the largest in our fleet and will be similar in design and innovation to Norwegian Breakaway and Norwegian Getaway. The contract cost of this ship is approximately €698.4 million, or $921.4 million based
on the euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate as of December 31, 2012.

As of December 31, 2012, we have one of the most modern fleets of
cruise ships in the industry among the Major North American Cruise Brands, with a weighted-average age of 8.1 years. Following the delivery of Norwegian Breakaway and Norwegian Getaway, which are currently under construction, we will have the
youngest fleet amongst the North American Cruise Brands. These new ships are the next generation of “Freestyle Cruising” and include some of the most popular elements of our recently delivered ships together with new and differentiated
features.

Our senior management team has delivered consistent growth and has driven measurable improvements in operating metrics and cash
flow generation across several different operating environments. Under the leadership of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Kevin M. Sheehan, we significantly differentiated the Norwegian brand, largely with the “Freestyle
Cruising” concept that accelerated revenue growth and contributed to improving our operating income margins by approximately 1,370 basis points since the beginning of 2008. Our management team was augmented in key areas such as Sales,
Marketing, Hotel Operations and Finance and has since implemented major initiatives such as enhancing onboard service and amenities across the fleet, expanding our European presence and overseeing a newbuild program that included the successful
launch in June 2010 of our largest ship to date, Norwegian Epic.

Our Industry

We believe that the cruise industry demonstrates the following positive fundamentals:

Strong Growth with Low Penetration and Significant Upside

Cruising is a vacation
alternative with broad appeal, as it offers a wide range of products and services to suit the preferences of vacationing guests of all ages, backgrounds and interests. Since 1980, cruising has been one of the fastest growing segments of the North
American vacation market. According to CLIA, in 2012 approximately 17.2 million passengers took cruises on CLIA member lines versus 7.2 million passengers in 2000, representing a compound annual growth rate of approximately 7.5%. Based on
CLIA’s research, we believe that cruising is under-penetrated and represents approximately 12% of the North American vacation market. As measured in Berths, or room count, the cruise industry is relatively nascent compared to the wide variety
of much more established vacation travel destinations across North America.

According to the Orlando/Orange County Convention &
Visitors Bureau and the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, there are approximately 268,000 rooms in just Orlando and Las Vegas combined. By comparison, the estimated Major North American Cruise Brands’ capacity in terms of Berths is
approximately 235,500. In addition, according to industry research, only 24% of the U.S. population has ever taken a cruise and we believe this percentage should increase. The European vacation market, the fastest growing market globally, remains
under-penetrated by the cruise industry, with approximately 1% of Europeans having taken a cruise in a given year, compared with 3% of the population in the U.S. and Canada. We believe that improving leisure travel trends along with a relatively low
supply outlook in the near term from the Major North American Cruise Brands lead to an attractive business environment for our Company to operate in.







Attractive Demographic Trends to Drive Cruising Growth

The cruise market is comprised of a broad spectrum of guests and appeals to virtually all demographic categories. Based on CLIA’s 2011 Cruise Market
Profile Study, the target North American cruise market, defined as households with income of $40,000 or more headed by a person who is at least 25 years old, is estimated to be 132.9 million people. Also according to the study, the average
cruise customer has a household income of $109,000. It is our belief that “Freestyle Cruising” will help us attract the younger generations who we believe are more likely to enjoy greater levels of freedom from our “Freestyle
Cruising” product offering than was traditionally offered within the cruise industry.

Significant Value Proposition and High Level of
Guest Satisfaction

We believe that the cost of a cruise vacation, relative to a comparable land-based resort or hotel vacation in Orlando
or Las Vegas, offers an exceptional value proposition. When one considers that a typical cruise, for an all-inclusive price, offers its guests transportation to a variety of destinations, hotel-style accommodations, a generous diversity of food
choices and a selection of daily entertainment options, this is compelling support for the cruise value proposition relative to other leisure alternatives. Cruises have become even more affordable for a greater number of North American guests over
the past few years through the introduction of “Homeland Cruising,” which eliminates the cost of airfare commonly associated with a vacation. According to CLIA’s 2011 study, approximately 70% of persons who have taken a cruise rate
cruising as a high-value vacation alternative. In this same survey, CLIA reported that approximately 80% of cruise passengers agree that a cruise vacation is a good way to sample various destinations that they may visit again on a land-based
vacation.

High Barriers to Entry

The cruise industry is characterized by high barriers to entry, including the existence of several established and recognizable brands, the large investment to build a new, sophisticated cruise ship, the
long lead time necessary to construct new ships and limited newbuild shipyard capacity. Based on new ship orders announced over the past several years, the cost to build a cruise ship can range from approximately $500 million to $1.4 billion or
approximately $200,000 to $425,000 per Berth, depending on the ship’s size and quality of product offering. The construction time of a newbuild ship is typically between 27 months to 36 months and requires significant upfront cash payments to
fund construction costs before revenue is generated. In addition, the shipbuilding industry is experiencing tightened capacity as the size of ships increases and the industry consolidates, with virtually all new capacity added in the last 20 years
having been built by one of three major European shipbuilders.

Varied Segments and Brands







Our Competitive Strengths

We believe that the following business strengths will enable us to execute our strategy:

Leading Cruise Operator with High-Quality Product Offering

We believe that our modern fleet provides us with operational and strategic advantages as our entire fleet has been purpose-built for “Freestyle Cruising” with a wider range of passenger
amenities relative to many of our competitors.

We believe that in recent years the distinction has been blurred between segments of the
market historically known as premium and contemporary, with the Major North American Cruise Brands each offering a wide range of onboard experiences across their respective fleets. With the completion of our fleet renewal initiative, we believe that
based on a number of different metrics that directly impact a guest’s onboard experience, we compare favorably against the other Major North American Cruise Brands, with many product attributes that are more in line with the premium segment.

• Modern Fleet.With a weighted-average age of 8.1 years as of December 31, 2012 and no ships built before
1998, we have one of the most modern fleets among the Major North American Cruise Brands, which we believe allows us to offer a high-quality passenger experience with a significant level of consistency across our entire fleet.

•Rich Stateroom Mix.As of December 31, 2012, 48% of our staterooms had private balconies representing a higher mix of
outside balcony staterooms than the other contemporary brands. In addition, five of our ships offer The Haven, with suites of up to 570 square feet each. Guests staying in The Haven are provided with personal butler service and exclusive access to a
private courtyard area with a private pool, sundecks, hot tubs, and a fitness center. Six of our ships also offer luxury garden suites of up to 6,694 square feet, making them the largest accommodations at sea.

•High-Quality Service.We believe we offer a very high level of onboard service and to further enhance this service we have
implemented the Norwegian Platinum Standards program. This program introduces specific standards emphasizing dedicated service, consistency in execution, and overall guest satisfaction which we believe will promote customer loyalty.

• Diverse Selection of Premium Itineraries.For 2012, approximately 50% of our itineraries, by Capacity Days, were in more
exotic, underpenetrated and less traditional locations, including Alaska, Hawaii, Bermuda and Europe, compared to the other contemporary brands which are focused primarily on itineraries in the Caribbean and Mexico. This mix of destinations is more
consistent with the brands in the premium segment, and these itineraries typically attract higher Net Yields than Caribbean and Mexico sailings.

We believe that this high-quality product offering positions us well in comparison to the other Major North American Cruise Brands and provides an opportunity for continued Net Yield growth.

“Freestyle Cruising”

The most
important differentiator for our brand is the “Freestyle Cruising” concept onboard all 11 of our ships. The essence of “Freestyle Cruising” is to provide a cruise experience that offers more freedom and flexibility than any other
traditional cruise alternative. While many cruise lines have historically required guests to dine at assigned group tables and at specified times, “Freestyle Cruising” offers the flexibility and choice to our guests who prefer to dine when
they want, with whomever they want and without having to dress formally. Additionally, we have increased the number of activities and dining facilities available onboard, allowing guests to tailor their onboard experience to their own schedules,
desires and tastes.

All of our ships have been custom designed and purpose-built for “Freestyle Cruising,” which we believe
differentiates us significantly from our major competitors. We further believe that “Freestyle Cruising” attracts a passenger base that prefers the less structured, resort-style experience of our cruises. Building on the success of
“Freestyle Cruising,” we implemented across our fleet “Freestyle 2.0” featuring significant enhancements to our onboard product offering. These enhancements include a major investment in the total dining experience; upgrading the
stateroom experience across the ship; new wide-ranging onboard activities for all ages; and additional recognition, services and amenities for premium-priced balcony, suite and The Haven guests. With Norwegian Epic we have enhanced “Freestyle
Cruising” by offering what we believe to be unmatched flexibility in entertainment, offering guests a wide variety of activities and performances to choose from at any time of day or night.







Established Brand Recognition

The Norwegian Cruise Line brand is well established in the cruise industry with a long track record of delivering a world class cruise product offering to its guests. We achieve high-quality feedback
scores from our guests in the areas of overall service, physical ship attributes, onboard products and services, food and beverage offerings and overall entertainment and land-based excursion quality. Based on recent guest experience and loyalty
reports, the quality of our guests’ experience generates high levels of customer loyalty, as demonstrated by the fact that approximately 33% of our guests are repeat guests and 78% say they would recommend Norwegian Cruise Line to their friends
and family. Brand recognition is also strong with over 92% of cruisers reporting familiarity with Norwegian. Additionally, our brand is known for freedom, flexibility and choice, all highly valued benefits within the cruise industry demographic.

Strong Cash Flow

Nearly all
of our capital expenditures, other than those related to our newbuild projects (which are substantially financed) and the recent renovation of our private island, relate to the maintenance of our modern fleet and shoreside operations, which includes
investments in our IT infrastructure and business intelligence systems. We have obtained export credit financing for Breakaway Plus, Norwegian Getaway and Norwegian Breakaway which will fund approximately 80% to 90% of the required pre-delivery and
delivery date construction payments; as such, we expect the cost of our newbuild projects to have a minimal impact on our cash flow in the near term.

We are able to generate significant levels of cash flow due to our ability to pre-sell tickets and receive customer deposits with long lead times ahead of sailing. We also offer our guests the ability to
advance book and prepay for certain services. In addition, we believe that the favorable U.S. federal income tax regime applicable to international shipping income enhances our cash flow from operations which continues to contribute significantly to
deleveraging our balance sheet.

Highly Experienced Management Team

Our senior management team is comprised of executives with an average of 16 years in the cruise, travel, leisure and hospitality-related industries. Our executive team has streamlined our organization and
instilled a results-driven management philosophy that promotes direct accountability and a more nimble decision-making culture that contributed in driving approximately 1,370 basis points of operating income margin expansion since the beginning of
2008. We believe our stock incentive plan closely aligns the interest of our management team and our stockholders.

Strong Sponsors with
Extensive Industry Expertise

Our Sponsors or their affiliates have extensive experience investing in the cruise, leisure and
travel-related industries. Affiliates of the Apollo Funds have invested significant equity and resources to the cruise and leisure industry with its investment in Prestige Cruises International, Inc. which operates through two distinct upscale
cruise brands, Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises. In addition, affiliates of both Apollo and TPG have investments in Caesars Entertainment Corporation (“Caesars Entertainment”), with whom we have created a marketing alliance.
Affiliates of TPG are also significant investors in Sabre Holdings, a leading GDS (global distribution system) and parent of Travelocity.com. Genting HK, headquartered in Hong Kong, operates a leading Asian cruise line through its subsidiary, Star
Cruises Asia Holding Ltd., with destinations in Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, Vietnam, China and Thailand. We believe that the synergies and purchasing power obtained through these affiliates have resulted in better price
negotiations for us and our affiliates for selected supplies and services.

Our Business Strategies

We seek to attract vacationers by offering new products and services and creating differentiated itineraries in new markets through new and existing
modern ships with the aim of delivering a better, value-added, vacation experience to our guests relative to other broad-based or land-based leisure alternatives. Our business strategies include the following:







Attractive Product Offerings

We have a long history of product development and innovation within the cruise industry as one of the most established consumer brands. We became the first cruise operator to purchase a private island in
the Bahamas and offer a private beach experience to our guests; and we were the first to introduce a 2,000-Berth megaship into the Caribbean market in 1980. More recently, we pioneered new concepts in cruising over the last decade with the
development of “Homeland Cruising” and the launch of “Freestyle Cruising.”

We continued to enhance our product offering
with the delivery of Norwegian Epic in June 2010, which offers 21 dining options, a diverse range of accommodations and what we believe is the widest array of entertainment at sea. In addition to several differentiated full-service complimentary
dining rooms, Norwegian Epic also features specialty restaurants including a classic steakhouse, sushi, Japanese teppanyaki, Brazilian churrascaria, Asian noodle bar, traditional Chinese, fine French and Italian. Guest accommodations on Norwegian
Epic include the groundbreaking Studios, 128 staterooms designed for solo travelers centered around the Studio Lounge, a private two-story lounge for studio guests. On its top decks, Norwegian Epic offers a “ship within a ship” in the
largest suite complex at sea; The Haven includes two decks with 60 suites and penthouses, a private pool with multiple hot tubs and sundecks, a private fitness center and steam rooms, fine dining in the Epic Club restaurant, casual outdoor dining at
the Courtyard Grill, and 24-hour concierge service, all exclusively for guests of The Haven. Entertainment onboard Norwegian Epic includes a wide variety of branded entertainment for guests to choose from, including exclusive engagements with Blue
Man Group, Cirque Dreams & Dinner, Legends in Concert, Nickelodeon and the improvisational comedy troupe, The Second City.

Building
on the success of Norwegian Epic, Norwegian Breakaway will include many of her most popular elements, while maintaining the innovative spirit of “Freestyle Cruising” by introducing new and differentiated features. These include The Haven
and a quarter-mile oceanfront boardwalk, The Waterfront, which will create outdoor seating areas for many dining venues and lounges, including our first seafood restaurant, “Ocean Blue by Geoffrey Zakarian.” The centrally located “678
Ocean Place” will connect three entire decks of daytime and nighttime entertainment. Master Baker Buddy Valastro, of the popular TLC series “Cake Boss,” will open an extension of Carlo’s Bake Shop onboard. We will offer our
guests many of the popular entertainment venues of Norwegian Epic such as the dueling pianos of “Howl at the Moon” and new jazz and blues venues, and will also feature the 80’s-inspired rock musical “Rock of Ages,” ballroom
dance experience “Burn the Floor” and “Cirque Dreams & Dinner Jungle Fantasy.” We have secured a strategic partnership with the Radio City Rockettes who will christen Norwegian Breakaway. This relationship includes a
marketing partnership that names Norwegian as the official cruise line of the Rockettes and Radio City Music Hall and an exhibit showcasing the Rockettes will be integrated into the ship. This relationship also includes two Rockettes sailing on
select voyages and offering special fitness classes and photo opportunities.

We have recently completed a $25 million renovation to our
private island, Great Stirrup Cay, which includes a new marina, dining and bar facility to enhance the guest experience, as well as offers new activities such as wave runners and private cabanas. The enhancements provide us with additional
revenue-generating opportunities on the island.

Maximize Net Yields

We are focused on growing our revenue through various initiatives aimed at increasing our ticket prices and occupancy as well as onboard spending to drive higher overall Net Yields. To maximize passenger
ticket revenue, our revenue management strategy is focused on optimizing pricing and generating demand throughout the booking curve. We utilize a base-loading strategy to fill our capacity by booking guests as early before sailing as possible.

Base-loading is a strategy that focuses on selling inventory further from the cruise departure date by utilizing certain sales and marketing
tactics which generate business with longer booking windows. Base-loading allows us to fill our ships earlier, which prevents discounting close to sailing dates, in order to achieve our targeted Occupancy Percentages. Our specific initiatives to
achieve this include:



•Casino Player Strategy.As part of this strategy, we have non-exclusive arrangements with approximately 100 casino partners worldwide including
Caesars Entertainment, in which affiliates of both Apollo and TPG have investments, whereby loyal gaming guests are offered cruise reward certificates redeemable for cruises on our ships. Through property sponsored events and joint marketing







programs, we have the opportunity to market cruises to Caesars Entertainment’s guests. These arrangements with our casino partners have the dual benefit of filling open inventory and
reaching guests expected to generate above average onboard revenue through the casino and other onboard spending.



•Strategic Relationships.Our base-loading strategy also includes strategic relationships with travel agencies and international tour operators,
who commit to purchasing a certain level of inventory with long lead times.



•Meetings, Incentives and Charters.We are increasing our focus on the meetings, incentives and charters channel, which typically books very far
in advance and can represent a significant portion of the ship, or even an entire sailing, in one transaction.

We continue
to focus on various initiatives to drive increased onboard revenue across a variety of areas. From the year ended December 31, 2007 to the year ended December 31, 2012, our net onboard and other revenue yield increased by approximately
27.7% from $40.58 to $51.84 primarily due to strong performance in casino, beverage sales, shore excursions and specialty dining. Our strategy for further driving increased onboard revenue includes, among other things, generating additional casino
revenue through our arrangements with our casino partners, including Caesars Entertainment and Genting HK. These arrangements incorporate marketing resources to deliver cross-company advertising and marketing campaigns to promote our brand. We also
focus on optimizing the utilization of our specialty restaurants and pre-booking and pre-selling additional onboard activities. In addition, Norwegian Epic has created additional onboard revenue opportunities based on our premium entertainment
offerings.

Brand Expansion Through Disciplined Newbuild Program

We have three new ships on order and an option to build a fourth, all of which would be delivered through 2017. Norwegian Breakaway and Norwegian Getaway are under construction with Meyer Werft and are
scheduled for delivery in April 2013 and January 2014, respectively, and each will approximate 144,000 Gross Tons and 4,000 Berths with an aggregate cost of approximately €1.3 billion, or $1.7 billion based on the euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate
as of December 31, 2012. Our financing arrangements provide for financing for approximately 90% of the contract price of these two ships.

In October 2012, we reached an agreement with Meyer Werft to build a new cruise ship for delivery in the fourth quarter of 2015 with an option to build a
second ship with an expected delivery date in spring 2017. Currently referred to as “Breakaway Plus,” this new ship will be the largest in our fleet at approximately 163,000 Gross Tons and 4,200 Berths and will be similar in design and
innovation to our current Breakaway class ships. The contract cost of this ship is approximately €698.4 million, or $921.4 million based on the euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate as of December 31, 2012. We have obtained export credit
financing for Breakaway Plus that provides financing for 80% of the contract price of the ship. In addition, we have an option in place for export credit financing for the second ship on similar terms. We believe that these ships will allow us to
continue to expand the reach of our brand while driving shareholder value by positioning our Company for accelerated growth with an optimized return on invested capital.

Improve Operating Efficiency and Lower Costs

We are continually focused on driving
financial improvement through a variety of business improvement initiatives. These initiatives are focused on reducing costs while at the same time improving the overall product we deliver to our guests. Since the beginning of 2008, we have
significantly reduced our operating cost base through various programs including contract renegotiations, overhead rationalization, and fuel consumption reduction initiatives. We hedge our fuel purchases in order to provide greater visibility of our
fuel expense. As of December 31, 2012, we had hedged approximately 69%, 48% and 10% of our projected metric tons of fuel purchases for 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. We have also reduced our maintenance expense as a result of our fleet
renewal program, as younger, more modern ships are typically less costly to maintain than older ships. Adjusted EBITDA grew to $555.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 from $332.3 million for the year ended 2009 with an increase in
Adjusted EBITDA Margin to 24.4% from 17.9%, respectively, (we refer you to “Item 7— Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a calculation of Adjusted EBITDA). In addition, we
expect the economies of scale from Norwegian Breakaway, Norwegian Getaway and Breakaway Plus to drive further operating efficiencies over the long term.







Expand and Strengthen Our Product Distribution Channels

As part of our growth strategy, we are continually looking for ways to deepen and expand our customer sales channels. We continue to invest in our brand
by enhancing our website and our reservation department where our travel agents and guests have the ability to book cruise vacations. We also restructured our sales and marketing organization, which included the recruiting of a new executive
leadership team, to provide better focus on distribution through our primary channels: “Retail/Travel Agent,” “International,” and “Meetings, Incentives and Charters.”



•Retail/Travel Agent.We introduced our “Partners First” program, in which we have invested in travel partners’ success with
additional technology booking improvements and new marketing tools, improved communication and cooperative marketing initiatives. We also have implemented close to 100 individual projects specifically designed to improve our efficiency with the
travel agency channels and our guests, ranging from more timely commission payments to aggressive call center quality monitoring. We restructured our travel agent sales force with specific expertise and we also gain access to a significantly larger
number of travel partners through an outbound call center based in our Miami headquarters. We believe that our travel agent partners have witnessed a material improvement in our business practices and overall communication.



•International.We have an international sales presence in Europe and representatives covering Latin America, Australia and Asia. We are
primarily focused on increasing our business in the European market, which has grown significantly in recent years but remains underpenetrated. In Europe, we offer local itineraries year-round and our “Freestyle Cruising” has been well
received. We expanded our sales force in Europe which allows us to develop our distribution in Europe in a manner similar to our U.S. operation. In support of this European strategy, we deployed our newest and most sophisticated ship, Norwegian
Epic, in Europe for an extended summer season in 2011 and again in 2012. We are forging a closer distribution partnership with Genting HK, to develop product distribution across the Asia Pacific region.



•Meetings, Incentives and Charters. This channel focuses on full ship Charters as well as corporate meeting and incentive travel. These sales
often have very long lead times and can fill a significant portion of the ship’s capacity, or even an entire sailing, in one transaction. In addition, it strengthens base-loading, which allows us to fill our ships earlier, rather than
discounting close to sailing dates, in order to achieve our targeted Occupancy Percentages. In addition, we recently acquired Sixthman, a company specializing in developing and delivering music-oriented charters, including productions from KISS, Kid
Rock and the Cayamo festival, a cruise featuring a wide variety of popular and emerging songwriters.

Across every
distribution channel we are undertaking a major effort to grow demand with a targeted sales and marketing program for our premium stateroom categories, including our balcony and other premium stateroom categories, with a particular emphasis on our
suites and The Haven, which have increased as a percentage of our total inventory as a result of our fleet renewal.

Our Fleet

Our ships are purpose-built ships that enable us to provide our guests with the ultimate “Freestyle Cruising” experience.
Our ships have state-of-the art passenger amenities, including up to 21 dining options together with hundreds of private balcony staterooms on each ship. As of December 31, 2012, 48% of our staterooms have private balconies representing a
higher mix of outside staterooms with balconies than the other contemporary brands. Private balcony staterooms are very popular with guests and offer the opportunity for increased revenue by allowing us to charge a premium. Five of our ships offer
accommodations in The Haven, with suites up to 570 square feet, which provide personal butler service and exclusive access to a private courtyard area with private pool, sundecks, hot tubs, and fitness center. In addition, six of our ships have
luxury garden suites with up to 6,694 square feet, making them the largest accommodations at sea. These luxury garden suites offer three separate bedroom areas, spacious living and dining room areas, as well as 24-hour, on-call butler and concierge
service.







We place the utmost importance on the safety of our guests and crew. Every crew member is well trained in
the Company’s stringent safety protocols and participates in weekly safety drills onboard every one of our ships. In addition, our ships utilize operational closed circuit television systems, and we use an advanced, intranet-based Safety and
Environmental Management System (“SEMS”) for shipboard and shoreside procedures and self-improvement standards.

Our new ships on
order are the next-generation of “Freestyle Cruising” and include some of the most popular elements of our recently delivered ships together with new and differentiated features. One such feature is The Haven, which consists of luxury
suites included on our Jewel-Class ships, as well as Norwegian Epic. We are also introducing The Waterfront, a quarter-mile oceanfront boardwalk which will create outdoor seating areas for many dining venues and lounges. The centrally located
“678 Ocean Place” will connect three entire decks of daytime and nighttime entertainment.

Continuing our tradition of new product
development and the extension of the Norwegian Cruise Line brand, Norwegian Breakaway will offer our guests many of the popular entertainment venues of Norwegian Epic such as the dueling pianos of “Howl at the Moon” and new jazz and blues
venues, and will also feature the 80’s-inspired rock musical “Rock of Ages,” ballroom dance experience “Burn the Floor” and “Cirque Dreams & Dinner Jungle Fantasy.” Norwegian Breakaway will homeport
year-round in New York City with many elements of New York incorporated into its offerings.

The hull art design is by famed New York artist
Peter Max, New York-based celebrity chef Geoffrey Zakarian will create our first seafood-centric dining venue, “Ocean Blue by Geoffrey Zakarian” and master baker Buddy Valastro of the “Cake Boss” television series will have a
bakery onboard. The Radio City Rockettes will christen Norwegian Breakaway and an exhibit showcasing the Rockettes will be integrated into the ship. This relationship also includes two Rockettes sailing on select voyages and offering special fitness
classes and photo opportunities. Continuing our commitment to Miami, Norwegian Getaway, sister ship to Norwegian Breakaway, with hull artwork designed by Miami artist David “LEBO” LeBatard, will homeport year-round in Miami along with
Norwegian Sky.

The table below provides a brief description of our ships and areas of operation based on 2012 itineraries:



Ship(1)Year BuiltBerthsGross TonsPrimary Areas of OperationNorwegian Epic20104,100155,900Caribbean, EuropeNorwegian Gem20072,40093,500Bahamas, Bermuda, Caribbean, Canada and New EnglandNorwegian Jade20062,40093,600EuropeNorwegian Pearl20062,40093,500Alaska, Bahamas, Caribbean, Pacific Coastal and Panama CanalNorwegian Jewel20052,38093,500Alaska, Bahamas, Caribbean, Pacific Coastal and Panama CanalPride of America20052,14080,400HawaiiNorwegian Dawn20022,34092,300Bermuda, Caribbean, Canada and New EnglandNorwegian Star20012,35091,700Bermuda, CaribbeanNorwegian Sun20011,94078,300Caribbean, EuropeNorwegian Sky19992,00077,100BahamasNorwegian Spirit19982,02075,300Caribbean, Europe



(1)The table does not include Norwegian Breakaway, Norwegian Getaway and Breakaway Plus that are scheduled for future delivery.







Itineraries

We offer cruise itineraries ranging from one day to three weeks calling on over 100 worldwide locations, including destinations in the Caribbean, Bermuda, the Bahamas, Mexico, Alaska, Europe, Hawaii, New
England, Central America, North Africa and Scandinavia. We have developed, and are continuing to develop, innovative itineraries to position our ships in new and niche markets as well as in the mainstream markets throughout the Americas and Europe.
For the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 50% of our itineraries, by Capacity Days, were in more exotic, under-penetrated and less traditional locations (areas outside of the Caribbean and Bahamas) which we believe allows us to
generate higher Net Yield.

Ports and Facilities

Revenue Management Practices

Our cruise ticket prices generally include cruise fare and a wide variety of onboard activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment. In some
instances, cruise ticket prices include round-trip airfare to and from the port of embarkation. Prices vary depending on the particular cruise itinerary, stateroom category selected and the time of year that the voyage takes place. We generate
additional revenue on our ships principally from casino operations, beverage sales, specialty dining, shore excursions, gift shop purchases, spa services and other similar items.

Passenger Ticket Revenue







Onboard and Other Revenue

Ticket prices typically include cruise accommodations, meals in certain dining facilities and many onboard activities such as entertainment, pool-side activities and various sports programs. We generate
additional revenue on our ships principally from casino operations, beverage sales, specialty dining, shore excursions, gift shop purchases, spa services and other similar items. Onboard and other revenue is an important component of our revenue
base representing 29.5% of our 2012 total revenue. To maximize onboard revenue, we use various cross marketing and promotional tools and are supported by point-of-sale systems permitting “cashless” transactions for the sale of these
onboard products and services. Food and beverage, gaming and shore excursions are managed directly by the Company while retail shops, spa services, art auctions and internet services are managed through contracts with third-party concessionaires.
These contracts generally entitle us to a fixed percentage of the gross sales derived from these concessions.

Seasonality

The seasonality of the North American cruise industry generally results in the greatest demand for cruises during the summer months.
This predictable seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. The seasonality of our results is increased due to ships being taken out of service for regularly scheduled Dry-docks, which we typically
schedule during non-peak demand periods.

Sales and Marketing

Product Distribution Channels and Sales

We sell our product through our primary
distribution channels: retail/travel agent, international and meetings, incentives and charters. The retail/travel agent channel represents the majority of our ticket sales. Guests utilizing this channel book their cruises through independent travel
agents who sell our itineraries on a non-exclusive, commission-based basis. Given the importance of the retail/travel agent channel, a major focus of our marketing strategy is motivating and supporting our travel agent partners. Our travel partner
base is comprised of an extensive network of approximately 23,000 independent travel agencies including brick and mortar, internet-based and home-based operators located in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Australia.

We implemented close to 100 projects specifically designed to improve efficiency with our travel partners and guests, ranging from more timely commission
payments to aggressive call center quality monitoring. We also restructured our travel agent sales force, allowing us to more effectively support the larger accounts with specific expertise and also gain access to a significantly larger number of
travel partners through an outbound call center.

Outside of the U.S., we have an international sales presence in Europe and representatives
covering Latin America, Australia and Asia. We are primarily focused on increasing our business in the United Kingdom and Continental Europe markets, which have grown significantly in recent years and where we now offer local itineraries year-round.
We have modified our itineraries to increase demand by appealing to guests in different markets including the United Kingdom, Italy, Germany and Spain. We have had success with our base-loading initiatives in Europe, where our “Freestyle
Cruising” has been well received, and are in the process of building our sales force in Europe.

Finally, our meetings, incentives and
charters channel focuses on full ship Charters as well as corporate meeting and incentive travel. These sales often have very long lead times and can represent a significant portion of the ship, or even an entire sailing, in one transaction. In
addition, it strengthens base-loading, which allows us to fill our ships earlier, rather than discounting close to sailing dates, in order to achieve our targeted Occupancy Percentages.

Across all channels, we are also undertaking a major effort to grow demand with a targeted sales and marketing program for our premium stateroom categories, including The Haven, which have increased
significantly as a percentage of our total inventory as a result of our fleet renewal.

Supporting our sales efforts across several
distribution channels are our call centers located in Florida, Arizona, the United Kingdom and Germany with approximately 700 personnel oriented towards servicing travel agents. We believe that our diverse locations should minimize risks associated
with natural disasters, labor markets and other factors which could impact the operation of our call centers.







Marketing, Brand Communications and Advertising

Our marketing department works to enhance our brand awareness and increase levels of engagement and understanding of our product and services among
consumers, trade and travel partners. Core areas within the department include brand strategy, advertising and media, marketing communications, direct marketing, customer loyalty, website/interactive and market research. All marketing supports our
comprehensive brand platform created expressly to leverage our unique “Freestyle Cruising” concept. With this emphasis, we launched a new brand platform in October 2011, “Cruise Like a Norwegian,” which is intended to develop
community around Norwegian Cruise Line and communicates our commitment to providing an exceptional vacation experience. The media mix has included television, print, radio, digital, e-mail and direct mail.

In addition to our NCL University online, which is an informative travel partner education program, we introduced a new component to our travel partner
marketing, “Partners First.” As a result, a survey with travel agents indicates we have improved in ease of doing business.

We have
made significant progress in expanding our marketing reach with our online products and services. Our website, www.ncl.com, serving both our travel agency partners and guests, has been a major focus of this momentum. We are continually enhancing our
website to ensure that it communicates our brand promise, promotes relevant product information and aligns with our “Cruise Like a Norwegian” and “Freestyle Cruising” messages. Our consumer and travel agency partner booking
engine provides travel agency partners and guests the ability to shop and purchase any of our worldwide cruise itineraries with a more intuitive and informative online experience. We continue to develop additional functionality and tools to serve
our travel agency partners and guests.

Sustainable customer loyalty of our past guests is an important element of our marketing strategy. We
believe that attending to our past guests’ needs and motivations creates a cost-effective means of attracting business, particularly to our new itineraries, because past guests are familiar with our brand, products and services and often return
to our ships. The Norwegian Cruise Line loyalty program has been improved and is now known as Latitudes Rewards. Improvements to the loyalty program include incentives and rewards allowing people to earn points based on the number of cruise nights,
level of accommodations and certain booking windows. Members of this program receive periodic mailings with informative destination information and cruise promotions that include special pricing, shipboard credits and onboard recognition. Also, avid
cruisers can use our co-branded credit card to earn upgrades and discounts.

Customer feedback and research is also a critically important
element in the development of our overall marketing and business strategies. In 2008, we instituted a process for measuring and understanding key drivers of customer loyalty and satisfaction from our guests that provides valuable insights into the
cruise experience. We regularly initiate custom research studies among both travel partners and consumers to assess the impact of various programs and/or to solicit feedback that helps shape future direction.

Ship Operations and Cruise Infrastructure

Ship Maintenance

In addition to routine repairs and maintenance performed on an ongoing
basis and in accordance with applicable requirements, each of our ships is generally taken out of service, approximately every 24 to 60 months, for a period of one or more weeks for scheduled maintenance work, repairs and improvements performed in
Dry-dock. Dry-dock duration is a statutory requirement controlled under the chapters of SOLAS and to some extent the International Load Lines Convention. Under these regulations, it is required that a passenger ship Dry-dock twice in 5 years and the
maximum duration between each Dry-dock cannot exceed 3 years. However, most of our international ships qualify under a special exemption provided by the Bahamas (flag state) after meeting certain criteria set forth by the Bahamas to Dry-dock once
every 5 years. To the extent practical, each ship’s crew, catering and hotel staff remain with the ship during the Dry-dock period and assist in performing repair and maintenance work. We do not earn revenue while ships are Dry-docked.
Accordingly, Dry-dock work is typically performed during non-peak demand periods to minimize the adverse effect on revenue that results from ships being out of service. Dry-docks are typically scheduled in spring or autumn and depend on shipyard
availability.

Suppliers

Our
largest capital expenditures are for ship construction and acquisition. Our largest operating expenditures are for fuel, food and beverage, travel agent services and advertising and marketing. Most of the supplies that we require are available from
numerous sources at competitive prices. In addition, owing to the large quantities that we purchase, we can obtain favorable prices for many of our supplies. Our purchases are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. Payment terms granted by the
suppliers are generally customary terms for the cruise industry.







Crew and Passenger Safety

We place the utmost importance on the safety of our guests and crew. We operate all of our vessels to meet and exceed the requirements of the SOLAS convention and the International Safety Management Code
maritime standards, the international safety requirements which govern the cruise industry. Every crew member is well trained in the Company’s stringent safety protocols, participating in weekly safety drills onboard every one of our ships.

Our Captains are experienced seafarers. We further ensure that our Captains regularly undergo rigorous simulation training on navigation and
bridge operations. To assist our Captains and Officers while at sea, we have extensive navigation protocols in place. Our bridge operations are based on a two-person team approach. Accordingly, there are always two officers in charge of bridge
operations, mandating strict adherence to operating procedures. Furthermore, our bridge teams follow pre-set voyage plans which are thoroughly reviewed and discussed by the Captain and bridge team prior to port departures and arrivals. In addition,
all of our ships employ the latest state-of-the-art navigational equipment and technology to ensure that our bridge teams have the most accurate data regarding the planned itinerary.

Prior to every cruise setting sail, we hold a mandatory safety drill for all guests during which important safety information is reviewed and demonstrated. We also show an extensive safety video which
runs continuously on the stateroom televisions. Our fleet is equipped with modern navigational control and fire prevention and control systems. In recent years, our ships have continuously been upgraded and include internal and external regulatory
audits. We have installed HI-FOG sprinklers in the engine rooms of the ships in our fleet, as required by the IMO regulation. The navigation centers on our ships are also equipped with voyage data recorders (“VDRs”), which are similar in
concept to the black boxes used in commercial aircraft. The VDRs permit us to analyze safety incidents. Our ships utilize operational closed circuit television systems that enhance our training, assist in investigations and support the safety of
guests and crew.

We have developed the Safety and Environmental Management System (“SEMS”). This advanced, intranet-based system
establishes the policies, procedures, training, qualification, quality, compliance, audit, and self-improvement standards for all employees, both shipboard and shoreside. It also provides real-time reports and information to support the fleet and
risk management decisions. Through this system, our senior managers, as well as ship management, can focus on consistent, high quality operation of the fleet. The SEMS is approved and audited annually by our classification society Det Norske Veritas
(DNV), and the system also undergoes regular internal audits as well as an annual audit by the U.S. Coast Guard. We screen and train our crew to ensure crew familiarity and proficiency with the safety equipment onboard. Various safety measures have
been implemented on all of our ships and additional personnel have been appointed in our ship operations departments. We believe that we are in compliance with current health and safety rules and regulations.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012,
we employed approximately 2,100 full-time employees worldwide in our shoreside operations. We also employed approximately 11,700 shipboard employees. Also, we refer you to “Risk Factors— Amendments to the collective bargaining agreements
for crew members of our fleet and other employee relation issues may adversely affect our financial results” for more information regarding our relationships with union employees and our collective bargaining agreements that are currently in
place.

Insurance

We
maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, which are maintained in amounts related to the estimated market value of each ship. The coverage for each of the hull and machinery policies is maintained with syndicates of insurance
underwriters from the European and U.S. insurance markets.







In addition to the insurance coverage on the hull and machinery of our ships discussed above, we seek to
maintain comprehensive insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates and believe that our current coverage is at appropriate levels to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business. We carry:



•Protection and indemnity insurance (that covers third-party liabilities), including insurance against risk of fuel spill;



•Hull and machinery insurance, war risk insurance, including terrorist risk insurance, on each ship in an amount equal to the total insured hull value,
subject to certain coverage limits, deductibles and exclusions. The terms of our war risk policies include provisions where underwriters can give seven days’ notice to the insured that the policies will be cancelled in the event of a change of
risk which is typical for policies in the marine industry. Upon any proposed cancellation the insurer shall, before expiry of the seven day period, submit new terms;



•Tour operator insurance;



•Insurance for cash onboard; and



•Insurance for our shoreside property and general liability risks.

We believe that all of our insurance coverage, including those noted above, is subject to market-standard limitations, exclusions and deductible levels.

The Athens Convention Relating to the Carriage of Passengers and Their Luggage by Sea (1974) (the “Athens Convention”) and the Protocol to
the Athens Convention Relating to the Carriage of Passengers and Their Luggage by Sea (1976) (the “1976 Protocol”) are generally applicable to passenger ships. The U.S. has not ratified the Athens Convention; however, with limited
exceptions, the 1976 Protocol may be contractually enforced with respect to cruises that do not call at a U.S. port. The International Maritime Organization Diplomatic Conference agreed to a new protocol to the Athens Convention on November 1,
2002 (the “2002 Protocol”). The 2002 Protocol, which has not yet entered into force, establishes for the first time a level of compulsory insurance which must be maintained by passenger ship operators with a right of direct action against
the insurer. The timing of the entry into force of the 2002 Protocol, if achieved at all, is unknown. No assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to provide the level and type of coverage required under
the 2002 Protocol. If the 2002 Protocol enters into force, we expect insurance costs would increase.

On December 31, 2012, the EU
Passenger Liability Regulation became effective and requires us to carry a minimum level of financial responsibility per passenger per incident.

Trademarks

We own a number of registered trademarks relating to, among other
things, the names “NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE,” “CRUISE LIKE A NORWEGIAN,” the names of our ships (except where trademark applications for these have been filed and are pending), incentive programs and specialty services rendered on
our ships and specialty accommodations such as “THE HAVEN BY NORWEGIAN.” In addition, we own registered trademarks relating to the “FREESTYLE” family of names, including, “FREESTYLE CRUISING,” “FREESTYLE
DINING” and “FREESTYLE VACATION.” Other significant marks include our SCHOOL OF FISH DESIGN marks that display one fish swimming against a school of fish. We believe our “NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE,” “CRUISE LIKE A
NORWEGIAN,” “THE HAVEN BY NORWEGIAN” “FREESTYLE CRUISING,” “FREESTYLE DINING,” and “FREESTYLE VACATION,” the names of our ships as well as the SCHOOL OF FISH DESIGN and CRUISE LIKE A NORWEGIAN logos are
widely recognized throughout North America and Europe and have considerable value.

Competition

We compete in the multi-night global cruise vacation industry. Although this sector has grown significantly over the past decade, it still remains a
relatively small part of the broadly defined global vacation market that has historically been dominated by land-based vacation alternatives. The different cruise brands that make up the global cruise vacation industry historically have been
segmented by product offering and service quality into contemporary, premium and luxury cruises. The contemporary segment generally includes cruises on larger ships that last seven







days or less, provides a casual ambiance and is less expensive than the premium or luxury segments. The premium segment generally is characterized by cruises that last from seven to 14 nights
with a higher quality product offering than the contemporary segment, appealing to a more affluent demographic. The luxury segment generally offers the highest level of services and quality with longer cruises on the smallest ships. We compete
primarily with the other Major North American Cruise Brands, which together comprise approximately 90% of the North American cruise market as measured by total Berths. These brands include Carnival Cruise Lines and Royal Caribbean International
which comprise the contemporary segment and Holland America, Princess Cruises and Celebrity Cruises which are part of the premium segment. As of December 31, 2012, Norwegian Cruise Line accounted for approximately 11% of the Major North
American Cruise Brands’ capacity in terms of Berths. We compete against all of these operators principally on the quality of our ships, our differentiated product offering, selection of our itineraries and value proposition of our cruises. We
also face competition from non-cruise vacation alternatives, including beach resorts, golf and tennis resorts, theme parks, land-based gaming operations, and other hotels and tourist destinations.

Regulatory Issues

Registration of Our Ships

Ten of the
ships that we currently operate are registered in the Bahamas. One of our ships, Pride of America , is a U.S.-flagged ship. Our ships registered in the Bahamas are inspected at least annually pursuant to Bahamian requirements. Our U.S.-registered
ship is subject to laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government and to various U.S. federal regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Public Health Service and the U.S. Coast Guard. Our U.S.-flagged ship is also regulated
by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and U.S. Department of Labor.

Health and Environment

Our various ports of call subject our ships to international and U.S. laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including
but not limited to MARPOL. Under such laws and regulations, we are prohibited from, among other things, discharging certain materials, such as petrochemicals and plastics, into the waterways. Specifically, in the U.S., we comply with the newly
implemented U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Vessel General Discharge permit.

Also in the U.S., we must meet the U.S. Public
Health Service’s requirements, including ratings by inspectors from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) and the FDA. We believe we rate at the top of the range of CDC and FDA scores achieved by the major cruise
lines. In addition, the cruise industry and the U.S. Public Health Service have agreed on regulations for food, water and hygiene to assist cruise lines in achieving the highest health and sanitation standards on cruise ships.







In 2012, we received our International Organization for Standardization’s (“ISO”) 9001:2008
certification which is the primary globally accepted standard for quality assurance and quality performance. This is a milestone which sets the stage for quality operations and guest satisfaction. Furthermore, Norwegian is certified under the ISO
14001 Standard. This voluntary standard sets requirements for establishment and implementation of a comprehensive environmental management system which we have adopted for our operations. Currently we operate under an Environmental Management Plan
that is incorporated into the SEMS program.

Pursuant to FMC and U.S. Coast Guard regulations, we have covered our financial responsibility
with respect to death or injury to passengers and water pollution by providing required guarantees from our insurers with respect to such potential liabilities. This includes obtaining Certificates of Financial Responsibility required by the U.S.
Coast Guard relating to our ability to satisfy liabilities in cases of water pollution.

Permits for Glacier Bay, Alaska

In connection with certain of our Alaska cruise operations, we rely on concession permits from the U.S. National Park Service to operate our ships in
Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve. We currently hold a concession permit allowing for 22 calls per summer cruising season through September 30, 2019. However, there can be no assurance that such permit will be renewed when necessary or
that regulations relating to the renewal of such permit will remain unchanged in the future.

Security and Safety

Pursuant to provisions adopted by the IMO, all cruise ships were required to be certified as having safety procedures that comply with the requirements of
the International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention (“ISM Code”). We have obtained certificates certifying that our ships are in compliance with the ISM Code. Each such certificate is granted for
a five-year period and is subject to periodic verification.

We believe that our ships currently comply with all requirements of the IMO and
the U.S. and Bahamian flags, including but not limited to SOLAS, MARPOL and STCW. The SOLAS requirements are amended and extended by the IMO from time to time. For example, the International Port and Ship Facility Code (“ISPS Code”), was
adopted by the IMO in December 2002 and provides for measures strengthening maritime security and places new requirements on governments, port authorities and shipping companies in relation to security issues on ships and in ports. We comply with
the ISPS Code.

In addition to the requirements of the ISPS Code, the U.S. Congress enacted the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002
(“MTSA”), which implements a number of security measures at ports in the U.S. including measures that apply to ships registered outside the U.S. docking at ports in the U.S. The U.S. Coast Guard has published MTSA regulations that require
a security plan for every ship entering the territorial waters of the U.S., provide for identification requirements for ships entering such waters and establish various procedures for the identification of crew members on such ships. We believe our
fleet is in compliance with the requirements imposed upon it by the MTSA and the U.S. Coast Guard regulations. The Transportation Workers Identification Credential is a federal requirement for accessibility into and onto U.S. ports and U.S.-flagged
ships. We are in compliance with this requirement.

Amendments to SOLAS required that ships constructed in accordance with pre-1974 SOLAS
requirements install automatic sprinkler systems by December 31, 2005. Failure to comply with the SOLAS requirements with respect to any ship will, among other things, restrict the operations of such ship in the U.S. and many other
jurisdictions. We are in compliance with these requirements.

IMO adopted an amendment to SOLAS which requires partial bulkheads on stateroom
balconies to be of non-combustible construction. Existing ships are required to comply with this SOLAS amendment by the first statutory survey after July 1, 2008. All of our ships are in compliance with the SOLAS amendment. The new SOLAS
regulation on Long-Range Identification and Tracking (“LRIT”) entered into force on January 1, 2008. This allows SOLAS contracting governments a year to set up and test the LRIT system and ship operators a year to start fitting







the necessary equipment or upgrading so that their ships can transmit LRIT information. Ships constructed on or after December 31, 2008 must be fitted with a system to automatically transmit
the identity of the ship, the position of the ship (latitude and longitude) and the date and time of the position. Ships constructed before December 31, 2008 must be fitted with the equipment not later than the first survey of the radio
installation after December 31, 2008. We are in compliance with these requirements.

Financial Requirements

The FMC requires evidence of financial responsibility for those offering transportation on passenger ships operating out of U.S. ports to indemnify
passengers in the event of non-performance of the transportation. Accordingly, we are required to maintain a $15.0 million third-party performance guarantee on our behalf in respect of liabilities for non-performance of transportation and other
obligations to passengers. Proposed regulations would revise the financial requirements with respect to both death/injury and non-performance coverages. Also, we have a legal requirement for us to maintain a security guarantee based on cruise
business originated from the United Kingdom and have a bond with the Association of British Travel Agents currently valued at British Pound Sterling 3.2 million. We also are required to establish financial responsibility by other jurisdictions
to meet liability in the event of non-performance of our obligations to passengers from those jurisdictions.

Taxation

Taxation of Operating Income: In General

This discussion is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), existing final and temporary regulations thereunder, and current administrative rulings and court
decisions, all as in effect on the date of this filing and all of which are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. Changes in these authorities may cause the tax consequences to vary substantially from the consequences described below.
The following discussion does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all of the U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable to us.

Unless exempt from U.S. federal income taxation, a foreign corporation is subject to U.S. federal income tax in respect of any income that is derived from the use of vessels, from the hiring or leasing of
vessels for use on a time, voyage or bareboat charter basis or from the performance of services directly related to those uses, collectively referred to as “shipping income,” to the extent that the shipping income is derived from sources
within the U.S.

For these purposes, shipping income attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end,
in the U.S., which we refer to as U.S.-source international shipping income, will be considered to be 50% derived from sources within the U.S.

The legislative history of the transportation income source rules suggests that a cruise that begins and ends in a U.S. port, but that calls on one or
more foreign ports, will derive U.S.-source income only from the first and last legs of such cruise. However, since there are no U.S. Treasury Regulations or other U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) guidance with respect to these rules,
the applicability of the transportation income source rules described above is not free from doubt.

No portion of shipping income
attributable to transportation exclusively between non-U.S. ports will be considered to be derived from sources within the U.S. Such shipping income will not be subject to any U.S. federal income tax. Shipping income attributable to transportation
exclusively between U.S. ports will be considered to be 100% derived from U.S. sources.

Unless exempt from tax under Section 883 of the
Code, (i) any U.S.-sourced shipping income or any other income that is considered to be effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or business (“effectively connected income”) (as discussed below under “—Taxation
in Absence of Section 883 Exemption”) would be subject to federal corporate income taxation on a net basis (generally at a 35% rate) and state and local taxes, and NCLH’s effectively connected earnings and profits may also be subject
to an additional branch profits tax of 30% (the “net tax regime”) and (ii) if not considered to be effectively connected income, any U.S.-source income would be subject to a 4% tax on gross income provided under Section 887 of
the Code (the “4% regime”).







The U.S.-source portion of our income that is not shipping income (including our U.S.-flagged operations) is
generally subject to the net tax regime. U.S. Treasury Regulations list several items of income which are not considered to be incidental to the international operation of ships and, to the extent derived from U.S. sources, are subject to U.S.
federal income taxes. Income items considered non-incidental to the international operation of ships include income from the sale of single-day cruises, shore excursions, air and other transportation, and pre-and post-cruise land packages. We
believe that substantially all of our income currently derived from the international operation of ships is shipping income.

To the extent
funds are legally available, the tax agreement governing the NCL Corporation Units provides that NCLC will make cash distributions, which we refer to as “tax distributions,” to the holders of the NCL Corporation Units (including the
Management NCL Corporation Units) if ownership of the NCL Corporation Units gives rise to U.S. taxable income for the holder. The U.S. taxable income attributable to NCLH’s ownership of NCL Corporation Units may be different from the relative
U.S. taxable income attributable to the Management NCL Corporation Units. In that case, tax distributions may be made on a non-pro rata basis with the holders of Management NCL Corporation Units possibly receiving relative tax distributions greater
than the tax distributions received by NCLH. Generally, these tax distributions will be computed based on an estimate of the taxable income, determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes, allocable to the NCL Corporation Unit holder multiplied by
the U.S. federal and state income tax rate applicable to each holder, as determined in the sole discretion of NCLH.

Exemption of Operating
Income from U.S. Federal Income Taxation

Under Section 883 of the Code and the related regulations, a foreign corporation will be
exempt from U.S. federal income taxation on its U.S.-source international shipping income if: (a) it is organized in a qualified foreign country, which is one that grants an “equivalent exemption” from tax to corporations organized in
the U.S. in respect of each category of shipping income for which exemption is being claimed under Section 883 of the Code, and to which we refer as the “Country of Organization Test”; and (b) either: (1) more than 50% of
the value of its stock is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by “qualified shareholders,” which includes individuals who are “residents” of a qualified foreign country, to which we refer as the “50% Ownership
Test”; (2) one or more classes of its stock representing, in the aggregate, more than 50% of the combined voting power and value of all classes of its stock are “primarily and regularly traded on one or more established securities
markets” in a qualified foreign country or in the U.S. (and certain exceptions do not apply), to which we refer as the “Publicly Traded Test”; or (3) it is a “controlled foreign corporation” and it satisfies an
ownership test, to which, collectively, we refer as the “CFC Test.” In addition, U.S. Treasury Regulations require a foreign corporation and certain of its direct and indirect shareholders to satisfy detailed substantiation and reporting
requirements.

Bermuda, the jurisdiction where we are incorporated, has been officially recognized by the IRS as a qualified foreign country
that currently grants the requisite equivalent exemption from tax in respect of each category of shipping income we expect to earn in the future. Therefore, NCLH will satisfy the Country of Organization Test and will likely be exempt from U.S.
federal income taxation with respect to our U.S.-source international shipping income if NCLH is able to satisfy any one of the 50% Ownership Test, the Publicly Traded Test or the CFC Test. As discussed further below, as of the date of this filing,
we expect to satisfy the Publicly Traded Test.

The regulations under Section 883 of the Code provide, in pertinent part, that a
corporation will meet the Publicly Traded Test if one or more classes of stock of a foreign corporation representing, in the aggregate, more than 50% of the combined voting power and value of all classes of stock are “primarily and regularly
traded on one or more established securities markets” in a qualified foreign country or in the U.S. A class of stock will be considered to be “primarily traded” on an established securities market in a country if the number of shares
of such class of stock that are traded during any taxable year on all established securities markets in that country exceeds the number of shares of such stock that are traded during that year on established securities markets in any other single
country.

Under the regulations, a class of stock will be considered to be “regularly traded” on an established securities market if
(a) such class of stock is listed on such market, (b) such class of stock is traded on such market, other than in minimal quantities, on at least 60 days during the taxable year or one sixth of the days in a short taxable year, and
(c) the aggregate number of shares of such class of stock traded on such market during the taxable year is at least 10% of the average number of shares of such class of stock outstanding during such year, or as appropriately adjusted in the
case of a short taxable year.







The regulations provide that the trading frequency and trading volume tests will be deemed satisfied if a
class of stock is traded on an established securities market in the U.S. and is regularly quoted by dealers making a market in such stock.

The regulations provide, in pertinent part, that a class of stock will not be considered to be “regularly traded” on an established securities
market for any taxable year in which 50% or more of the outstanding shares of such class of stock are owned on more than half the days during the taxable year by persons who each own 5% or more of the outstanding shares of such class of stock, to
which we refer as the “Five Percent Override Rule.” The “Five Percent Override Rule” will not apply if we can substantiate that the number of NCLH’s ordinary shares owned for more than half of the number of days in the
taxable year (1) directly or indirectly applying attribution rules, by its qualified shareholders, and (2) by its non-5% shareholders, is greater than 50% of its outstanding ordinary shares.

As of the date of this filing, we expect that we will be eligible to claim the Section 883 tax exemption on the basis of the Publicly Traded Test.
Since NCLH’s ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, which is considered to be an established securities market, NCLH expects that its ordinary shares will be deemed to be “primarily traded” on an established
securities market. Furthermore, we believe NCLH will meet the trading volume requirements described previously because the pertinent regulations provide that trading volume requirements will be deemed to be met with respect to a class of equity
traded on an established securities market in the U.S., where the class of equity is regularly quoted by dealers who regularly and actively make offers, purchases and sales of such equity to unrelated persons in the ordinary course of business.

For purposes of the 4.9% limit, a
“transfer” includes any sale, transfer, gift, assignment, devise or other disposition, whether voluntary or involuntary, whether of record, constructively or beneficially, and whether by operation of law or otherwise. The 4.9% limit does
not apply to the Apollo Funds, the TPG Viking Funds or Genting HK. These shareholders are permitted to transfer their shares without complying with the limit subject to certain restrictions. We refer you to “Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions—The Shareholders’ Agreement.”







NCLH’s bye-laws provide that its Board of Directors may waive the 4.9% limit or transfer restrictions,
in any specific instance. The Board of Directors may also terminate the limit and transfer restrictions generally at any time for any reason. If a purported transfer or other event results in the ownership of ordinary shares by any shareholder in
violation of the 4.9% limit, or causes NCLH to be subject to U.S. income tax on shipping operations, such ordinary shares in excess of the 4.9% limit, or which would cause NCLH to be subject to U.S. shipping income tax will automatically be
designated as “excess shares” to the extent necessary to ensure that the purported transfer or other event does not result in ownership of ordinary shares in violation of the 4.9% limit or cause NCLH to become subject to U.S. income tax on
shipping operations, and any proposed transfer that would result in such an event would be void. Any purported transferee or other purported holder of excess shares will be required to give NCLH written notice of a purported transfer or other event
that would result in excess shares. The purported transferee or holders of such excess shares shall have no rights in such excess shares, other than a right to the payments described below.

Excess shares will not be treasury shares but rather will continue to be issued and outstanding ordinary shares. While outstanding, excess shares will be transferred to a trust. The trustee of such trust
will be appointed by NCLH and will be independent of NCLH and the purported holder of the excess shares. The beneficiary of such trust will be one or more charitable organizations that is a qualified shareholder selected by the trustee. The trustee
will be entitled to vote the excess shares on behalf of the beneficiary. If, after a purported transfer or other event resulting in excess shares and prior to the discovery by us of such transfer or other event, dividends or distributions are paid
with respect to such excess shares, such dividends or distributions will be immediately due and payable to the trustee for payment to the charitable beneficiary. All dividends received or other income declared by the trust will be paid to the
charitable beneficiary. Upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of NCLH, the purported transferee or other purported holder will receive a payment that reflects a price per share for such excess shares generally equal to the lesser of:

• the amount per share of any distribution made upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and

• in the case of excess shares resulting from a purported transfer, the price per share paid in the transaction that created such
excess shares, or, in the case of excess shares resulting from an event other than a purported transfer, the market price for the excess shares on the date of such event.

At the direction of NCLH’s Board of Directors, the trustee will transfer the excess shares held in trust to a person or persons, including NCLH, whose ownership of such excess shares will not violate
the 4.9% limit or otherwise cause NCLH to become subject to U.S. shipping income tax within 180 days after the later of the transfer or other event that resulted in such excess shares or we become aware of such transfer or event. If such a transfer
is made, the interest of the charitable beneficiary will terminate, the designation of such shares as excess shares will cease and the purported holder of the excess shares will receive the payment described below. The purported transferee or holder
of the excess shares will receive a payment that reflects a price per share for such excess shares equal to the lesser of:

• the price per share received by the trustee, and

• the price per share such purported transferee or holder paid in the purported transfer that resulted in the excess shares, or, if the purported transferee or holder did not give value for such
excess shares, through a gift, devise or other event, a price per share equal to the market price on the date of the purported transfer or other event that resulted in the excess shares.

A purported transferee or holder of the excess shares will not be permitted to receive an amount that reflects any appreciation in the excess shares during the period that such excess shares were
outstanding. Any amount received in excess of the amount permitted to be received by the purported transferee or holder of the excess shares must be turned over to the charitable beneficiary of the trust. If the foregoing restrictions are determined
to be void or invalid by virtue of any legal decision, statute, rule or regulation, then the intended transferee or holder of any excess shares may be deemed, at NCLH’s option, to have acted as an agent on its behalf in acquiring or holding
such excess shares and to hold such excess shares on NCLH’s behalf.

NCLH has the right to purchase any excess shares held by the trust
for a period of 90 days from the later of:

• the date the transfer or other event resulting in excess shares has
occurred, and







• the date NCLH’s Board of Directors determines in good faith that a transfer or
other event resulting in excess shares has occurred.

The price per excess share to be paid by NCLH will be equal to the
lesser of:

• the price per share paid in the transaction that created such excess shares, or, in the case of certain
other events, the market price per share for the excess shares on the date of such event, or

• the lowest market price
for the excess shares at any time after their designation as excess shares and prior to the date NCLH accepts such offer.

These provisions in
NCLH’s bye-laws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control or other transaction in which NCLH’s shareholders might receive a premium for their ordinary shares over the then-prevailing market price or
which such holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interest. The Board of Directors may determine, in its sole discretion, to terminate the 4.9% limit and the transfer restrictions of these provisions. While both the mandatory offer
protection and 4.9% protection remain in place, no third party other than the Apollo Funds, the TPG Viking Funds or Genting HK will be able to acquire control of NCLH.

Taxation in Absence of Section 883 Exemption

If NCLH does not qualify for exemption
under Section 883 of the Code as described above, (i) any U.S.-sourced shipping income or any other income that is effectively connected income (as described below) would be subject to the net tax regime and (ii) if not considered to
be effectively connected income, any U.S.-source income would be subject to the 4% regime.

NCLH’s U.S.-source international shipping
income would be considered effectively connected income only if it has, or is considered to have, a fixed place of business in the U.S. involved in the earning of U.S.-source international shipping income, and substantially all of its U.S.-source
international shipping income is attributable to regularly scheduled transportation, such as the operation of a vessel that follows a published schedule with repeated sailings at regular intervals between the same points for voyages that begin or
end in the U.S. This would likely be the case.

U.S. Taxation of Gain on Sale of Vessels

Provided we and our subsidiaries qualify for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code in respect of our shipping income, gain from the sale
of a vessel likewise should generally be exempt from tax under Section 883 of the Code. If, however, NCLH’s gain does not, for whatever reason, qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code, then such gain could be subject to
either the net tax regime or 4% regime (determined under rules different from those discussed above).

Certain State, Local and Non-U.S.
Tax Matters

We may be subject to state, local and non-U.S. income or non-income taxes in various jurisdictions, including those in which
we transact business, own property or reside. We may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. Our state, local or non-U.S. tax treatment may not conform to the U.S. federal income tax treatment discussed above. We may
be required to pay non-U.S. taxes on dispositions of foreign property or operations involving foreign property may give rise to non-U.S. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial.

The various tax regimes to which we are currently subject result in a relatively low effective tax rate on our world-wide income. These tax regimes,
however, are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. Moreover, we may become subject to new tax regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded by current or future law.







U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Net Operating Losses

As a result of the corporate reorganization, described above under “Corporate Reorganization,” we obtained certain net operating losses
(“NOLs”) of our shareholders. Section 382 of the Code places a limitation on the amount of taxable income that can be offset by NOL carryforwards after a change in control (generally greater than 50% change in ownership) of a loss
corporation. Generally, after a change in control, a loss corporation cannot deduct NOL carryforwards in excess of the Section 382 limitation. Due to these change in ownership provisions, utilization of our NOL carryforwards to offset future
taxable income will be subject to an annual limitation in future periods and may be limited to a significant extent. Use of our NOL carryforwards may be further limited as a result of any future equity transaction that results in a greater than 50%
change in ownership.

Organizational Structure

Our corporate structure is as follows (1):









(1)All subsidiaries are 100% owned by their immediate parent company. NCL Corporation Units held by NCLH (as a result of its ownership of 100% of the ordinary shares of
NCLC) currently represents a 97.3% economic interest in NCLC.

(2)Ship-holding companies for our Bahamas-flagged ships.

(3)Operates our Bahamas-flagged fleet and performs under contract with NCL America LLC certain marketing, ticket issuance and other services.

(4)Ship-holding company for our U.S.-flagged ship.

(5)Operates our U.S.-flagged ship.







Available Information

We file or will file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC
at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public at the SEC’s
website at http://www.sec.gov.

We also maintain an Internet site at http://www.investor.ncl.com. We will, as soon as reasonably
practicable after the electronic filing of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports if applicable, make available such reports free of charge on our website.Our
website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K.

