Item 1. Business

History and Development of the Company

Norwegian Cruise Line commenced operations out of
Miami in 1966. In February 2000, Genting HK acquired control of and subsequently became the sole owner of the Norwegian Cruise Line operations.

In January 2008, the Apollo Funds acquired 50% of the outstanding ordinary share capital of NCLC. As part of this investment, the Apollo Funds assumed
control of NCLC’s Board of Directors. Also, in January 2008, the TPG Viking Funds acquired, in the aggregate, 12.5% of NCLC’s outstanding share capital from the Apollo Funds.

In January 2013, NCLH completed its IPO and NCLC and NCLH completed the Corporate Reorganization (defined below). In August 2013 and December 2013, NCLH completed the Secondary Offerings. Subsequent to
our IPO and the Secondary Offerings, the relative ownership percentages of NCLH’s ordinary shares as of December 31, 2013 by our Sponsors was 62.7%.

Our Sponsors

Apollo

Apollo is a leading global alternative investment manager with offices in New York, Los Angeles, Houston, London, Frankfurt, Luxembourg, Singapore, Hong Kong and Mumbai. Apollo has assets under management
of over $161.2 billion invested in its private equity, capital markets and real estate businesses. Apollo owns a controlling interest in Prestige Cruises International, Inc. which operates through two distinct upscale cruise brands, Oceania Cruises
and Regent Seven Seas Cruises. Investment funds managed by Apollo also have current and past investments in other travel and leisure companies, including Caesars Entertainment Corporation (“Caesars Entertainment”), Great Wolf Resorts, Vail
Resorts, AMC Entertainment, Wyndham International and other hotel properties.

TPG

TPG is a leading global private investment firm founded in 1992 with $55.7 billion of assets under management and with offices in San Francisco, Fort
Worth, Austin, Beijing, Chongqing, Hong Kong, London, Luxembourg, Melbourne, Moscow, Mumbai, New York, Paris, São Paulo, Shanghai, Singapore and Tokyo. TPG has extensive experience with global public and private investments executed through
leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations, spinouts, growth investments, joint ventures and restructurings.

Genting HK

Genting HK was founded in 1993 and through its subsidiary, Star Cruises Asia Holding Ltd., operates a leading cruise line in the Asia-Pacific region. Its
headquarters are located in Hong Kong and it is represented in more than 20 locations worldwide, with offices and representatives in Asia, Australia, Europe and the U.S. Genting HK currently has a fleet of six ships, which offer various cruise
itineraries in the Asia Pacific region.

Corporate Reorganization

In February 2011, NCLH, a Bermuda limited company, was formed with the issuance to the Sponsors of, in aggregate, 10,000 ordinary shares, with a par value of $.001 per share. On January 24, 2013, we
completed our IPO. In connection with the consummation of the IPO, the Sponsors’ ordinary shares in NCLC were exchanged for the ordinary shares of NCLH, and NCLH became the owner of 100% of the ordinary shares and parent company of NCLC (the
“Corporate Reorganization”). Prior to the Corporate Reorganization which was effected solely for the purpose of reorganizing our corporate structure, NCLH had not conducted any activities other than those incidental to the formation and to
prepare for the Corporate Reorganization and IPO.

NCLC is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and the terms of the
partnership (including the economic rights with respect thereto) are set forth in an amended and restated tax agreement for NCLC. Economic interests in NCLC are represented by the partnership interests established under the tax agreement, which we
refer to as “NCL Corporation Units.” The NCL Corporation Units held by NCLH (as a result of its ownership of 100% of the ordinary shares of NCLC) represent a 97.8% economic interest in NCLC as of December 31, 2013.

In connection with the Corporate Reorganization, NCLC’s outstanding profits interests granted under the profits sharing agreement to management (or
former management) of NCLC were exchanged for an economically equivalent number of NCL Corporation Units. We refer to the NCL Corporation Units exchanged for profits interests granted under the profits sharing agreement as Management NCL Corporation
Units. The Management NCL Corporation Units received upon the exchange of outstanding profits interests are subject to the same time-based vesting requirements and performance-based vesting requirements applicable to the profits interests for which
they were exchanged. The Management NCL Corporation Units issued in exchange for the profits interests represent a 2.2% economic interest in NCLC as of December 31, 2013.







NCL Corporation Units are not transferrable without NCLH’s prior consent and do not entitle the holders
to any voting, pre-emptive, or sinking fund rights. Any distributions (other than the tax distributions described below) made by NCLC are allocated on a pro rata basis to NCLH and the holders of the Management NCL Corporation Units, based upon the
total number of NCL Corporation Units (including Management NCL Corporation Units) outstanding. Distributions by NCLC to NCLH or holders of Management NCL Corporation Units do not entitle holders of ordinary shares of NCLH to any portion of such
distribution or to any additional distribution by NCLH.

NCLC does not have any current plans to make any distributions, other than tax
distributions which may occur in the future. To the extent funds are legally available, NCLC will make cash distributions, which we refer to as “tax distributions,” to holders of the NCL Corporation Units (including the Management NCL
Corporation Units) if ownership of the NCL Corporation Units gives rise to U.S. taxable income for the holder. The U.S. taxable income attributable to NCLH’s ownership of NCL Corporation Units may be different from the relative U.S. taxable
income attributable to the Management NCL Corporation Units. In that case, tax distributions may be made on a non-pro rata basis with the holders of Management NCL Corporation Units possibly receiving relative tax distributions greater than the tax
distributions received by NCLH.

Holders of NCL Corporation Units (including the Management NCL Corporation Units prior to exchange for
ordinary shares of NCLH, as described below) may be entitled to recover on account of the economic interest represented by those units in a bankruptcy or other insolvency event of NCLC or NCLH (even if NCLH incurs debt or other claims that are
senior to its ordinary shares). In contrast, the rights of the holders of NCLH’s ordinary shares will be potentially junior to the debt or senior claims (if any) incurred by NCLH in a bankruptcy or other insolvency event. In this respect, the
NCL Corporation Units (including the Management NCL Corporation Units) may be considered, in some cases, to be potentially structurally superior to those of the holders of ordinary shares of NCLH in a bankruptcy or other insolvency event for NCLH
and NCLC.

When any holder of a Management NCL Corporation Unit exchanges such unit for one of NCLH’s ordinary shares (or a cash
payment equal to the value of one of such ordinary shares), the relative economic interests of the exchanging NCL Corporation Unit holder and the holders of ordinary shares of NCLH will not be altered. No new NCLC profits interests or Management NCL
Corporation Units will be issued; however, NCLH has granted, and expects to continue to grant, options to acquire its ordinary shares to our management team under its new long-term incentive plan.

As a result of the Corporate Reorganization, a non-controlling interest was created within NCLH and NCLH’s financial statements and financial
results will differ from NCLC’s in certain respects.

Additional Information

We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda. Our registered offices are located at Cumberland House, 9th Floor, 1 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 11,
Bermuda. Our principal executive offices are located at 7665 Corporate Center Drive, Miami, Florida 33126. Our telephone number is (305) 436-4000. Our website is located at www.investor.ncl.com. The information that appears on our websites is
not part of, and is not incorporated by reference into this annual report or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. Daniel S. Farkas, the Company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel, is our agent for service of process at
our principal executive offices.

Our Company

Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. is a Bermuda limited company formed as a holding company in 2011, which owns 100% of the ordinary shares of NCL Corporation Ltd., a Bermuda limited company formed in
2003, with predecessors dating from 1966. We are a







leading global cruise line operator, offering cruise experiences for travelers with a wide variety of itineraries in North America (including Alaska and Hawaii), the Mediterranean, the Baltic,
Central America, Bermuda and the Caribbean. We strive to offer an innovative and differentiated cruise vacation with the goal of providing our guests the highest levels of overall satisfaction on their cruise experience. In turn, we aim to generate
the highest guest loyalty and greatest numbers of repeat guests. We created a distinctive style of cruising called “Freestyle Cruising” onboard all of our ships, which we believe provides our guests with the freedom and flexibility
associated with a resort style atmosphere and experience as well as more dining options than a traditional cruise. We established the very first private island developed by a cruise line in the Bahamas with a diverse offering of activities for
guests. We are also the only cruise line operator to offer an entirely inter-island itinerary in Hawaii.

By providing such a distinctive
experience and appealing combination of value and service, we straddle both the contemporary and premium segments. As a result, we have been recognized for our achievements as the recipient of multiple honorary awards mainly consisting of reviews
tabulated from the readers of travel periodicals such as Travel Weekly, Condé Nast Traveler, and Travel + Leisure. We have been recognized as “Europe’s Leading Cruise Line” six years in a row, as well as both
“Caribbean’s Leading Cruise Line” and “World’s Leading Large Ship Cruise Line” by the World Travel Awards. Norwegian Breakaway, which was launched in 2013, has been named “Best New Ship” by the editors of
Cruise Critic and “Best Rookie Cruise Ship” by the readers of Travel Weekly.

We offer a wide variety of cruises ranging in length
from one day to three weeks. During 2013, we docked at 114 ports worldwide, with itineraries originating from 18 ports of which nine are in North America. In line with our strategy of innovation, many of these North American ports are part of our
“Homeland Cruising” program in which we have homeports that are close to major population centers, such as New York, Boston and Miami. This reduces the need for vacationers to fly to distant ports to embark on a cruise and helps reduce our
guests’ overall vacation cost. We offer a wide selection of exotic itineraries outside of the traditional cruising markets of the Caribbean and Mexico; these include cruises in Europe, including the Mediterranean and the Baltic, Bermuda,
Alaska, and the industry’s only entirely inter-island itinerary in Hawaii with our U.S.-flagged ship, Pride of America. This itinerary is unparalleled in the cruise industry, as all other vessels from competing cruise lines are registered
outside the U.S. and are required to dock at a distant foreign port when providing their guests with a Hawaii-based cruise itinerary.

Each of
our 13 modern ships has been purpose-built to consistently deliver our “Freestyle Cruising” product offering across our entire fleet, which we believe provides us with a competitive advantage. By focusing on “Freestyle Cruising,”
we have been able to achieve higher onboard spend levels, greater customer loyalty and the ability to attract a more diverse clientele.

As a
result of our strong operating performance, the growing demand we see for our distinctive cruise offering and the rational supply outlook for the industry, we added new ships to our fleet. In 2010, we launched a newbuild program for the next
generation of Freestyle Cruising vessels. We placed an order with Meyer Werft for two new cruise ships: Norwegian Breakaway, which was delivered in April 2013 and Norwegian Getaway, which was delivered in January 2014. These ships are approximately
144,000 Gross Tons with 4,000 Berths.

We also have orders with Meyer Werft for two additional ships for delivery in the fourth quarter of
2015 and the first quarter of 2017. These ships, Norwegian Escape and Norwegian Bliss, will be the largest in our fleet at approximately 163,000 Gross Tons with 4,200 Berths each and will be similar in design and innovation to our Breakaway Class
Ships. The combined contract cost of these two additional ships is approximately €1.4 billion, or $1.9 billion based on the euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate as of December 31, 2013. We have export credit financing in place that provides
financing for 80% of their contract price. As of January 31, 2014, we have the youngest fleet among the Major North American Cruise Brands as Norwegian Getaway joins Norwegian Breakaway as the latest generation of “Freestyle Cruising”
ships and these ships include some of the most popular elements of our recently delivered ships together with new and differentiated features.

Our senior management team has delivered consistent growth and has driven measurable improvements in operating metrics and cash flow generation across
several different operating environments. Under the leadership of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Kevin M. Sheehan, we significantly differentiated the Norwegian brand, largely with the “Freestyle Cruising” concept that
accelerated revenue growth and contributed to improving our operating income margins by approximately 1,350 basis points since the beginning of 2008 through the end of 2013. Our management team was augmented in key areas such as Sales, Marketing,
Hotel Operations and Finance and has since implemented major initiatives such as enhancing onboard service and amenities across the fleet, expanding our European presence and overseeing a newbuild program that included the successful launches in
April 2013 and January 2014 of our most innovative ships to date, Norwegian Breakaway and Norwegian Getaway.







Our Industry

We believe that the cruise industry demonstrates the following positive fundamentals:

Strong
Growth with Low Penetration and Significant Upside

Cruising is a vacation alternative with broad appeal, as it offers a wide range of
products and services to suit the preferences of vacationing guests of all ages, backgrounds and interests. Cruising has been one of the fastest growing segments of the North American vacation market. According to CLIA, 17.6 million passengers
in 2013 took cruises on CLIA member lines versus 7.2 million passengers in 2000, representing a compound annual growth rate of approximately 7.1%. Based on CLIA’s research, we believe that cruising is under-penetrated and represents
approximately 12% of the North American vacation market. As measured in Berths, or room count, the cruise industry is relatively nascent compared to the wide variety of much more established vacation travel destinations across North America.

According to the Orlando/Orange County Convention & Visitors Bureau and the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, there are
approximately 267,000 rooms in just Orlando and Las Vegas combined. By comparison, the estimated Major North American Cruise Brands’ capacity in terms of Berths is approximately 241,000. In addition, according to industry research, only 24% of
the U.S. population has ever taken a cruise and we believe this percentage should increase. The European vacation market, the fastest growing market globally, remains under-penetrated by the cruise industry, with approximately 1% of Europeans having
taken a cruise in a given year, compared with 3% of the population in the U.S. and Canada. The importance of Europe and other markets outside of North America are increasing in importance as evidenced by the percentage of passengers sourced by CLIA
member lines outside of North America which has grown from 9% in 2000 to an expected 33% in 2013. We believe that improving leisure travel trends along with a relatively low supply outlook in the near term from the Major North American Cruise Brands
lead to an attractive business environment for our Company to operate in.

Attractive Demographic Trends to Drive Cruising Growth

The cruise market is comprised of a broad spectrum of guests and appeals to virtually all demographic categories. Based on CLIA’s
2011 Cruise Market Profile Study, the target North American cruise market, defined as households with income of $40,000 or more headed by a person who is at least 25 years old, is estimated to be 132.9 million people. Also according to the
study, the average cruise customer has a household income of $109,000. It is our belief that “Freestyle Cruising” will help us attract the younger generations who we believe are more likely to enjoy greater levels of freedom from our
“Freestyle Cruising” product offering than was traditionally offered within the cruise industry.

Significant Value Proposition
and High Level of Guest Satisfaction

We believe that the cost of a cruise vacation, relative to a comparable land-based resort or hotel
vacation in Orlando or Las Vegas, offers an exceptional value proposition. When one considers that a typical cruise, for an all-inclusive price, offers its guests transportation to a variety of destinations, hotel-style accommodations, a generous
diversity of food choices and a selection of daily entertainment options, this is compelling support for the cruise value proposition relative to other leisure alternatives. Cruises have become even more affordable for a greater number of North
American guests over the past few years through the introduction of “Homeland Cruising,” which eliminates the cost of airfare commonly associated with a vacation. According to CLIA’s 2011 Study, approximately 70% of persons who have
taken a cruise rate cruising as a high-value vacation alternative. In this same survey, CLIA reported that approximately 80% of cruise passengers agree that a cruise vacation is a good way to sample various destinations that they may visit again on
a land-based vacation.

High Barriers to Entry

The cruise industry is characterized by high barriers to entry, including the existence of several established and recognizable brands, the large investment to build a new, sophisticated cruise ship, the
long lead time necessary to construct new ships and limited newbuild shipyard capacity. Based on new ship orders announced over the past several years, the cost to build a cruise ship can range from approximately $500 million to $1.4 billion or
approximately $200,000 to $425,000 per Berth, depending on the ship’s size and quality of product offering. The construction time of a newbuild ship is typically between 27 months to 36 months and requires significant upfront cash payments to
fund construction costs before revenue is generated. In addition, the shipbuilding industry is experiencing tightened capacity as the size of ships increases and the industry consolidates, with virtually all new capacity added in the last 20 years
having been built by one of three major European shipbuilders.







Varied Segments and Brands

Our Competitive Strengths

We believe that the following business strengths will
enable us to execute our strategy:

Leading Cruise Operator with High-Quality Product Offering

We believe that our modern fleet provides us with operational and strategic advantages as our entire fleet has been purpose-built for “Freestyle
Cruising” with a wider range of passenger amenities relative to many of our competitors. We believe that in recent years the distinction has been blurred between segments of the market historically known as premium and contemporary, with the
Major North American Cruise Brands each offering a wide range of onboard experiences across their respective fleets. As a result of our ongoing fleet renewal initiatives, we believe that based on a number of different metrics that directly impact a
guest’s onboard experience, we compare favorably against the other Major North American Cruise Brands, with many product attributes that are more in line with the premium segment.



•Modern Fleet.With a weighted-average age of 7.2 years as of January 31, 2014 and no ships built before 1998, we have the most modern
fleets among the Major North American Cruise Brands, which we believe allows us to offer a high-quality passenger experience with a significant level of consistency across our entire fleet.



•Rich Stateroom Mix. As of January 31, 2014, 53% of our staterooms had private balconies representing a higher mix of outside balcony
staterooms than the other contemporary brands. In addition, seven of our ships offer The Haven, with suites of up to 932 square feet each. Guests staying in The Haven are provided with personal butler service and exclusive access to a private
courtyard area with a private pool, sundecks, hot tubs, and a fitness center. Six of our ships also offer luxury garden villas of up to 6,694 square feet, making them the largest accommodations at sea.



•High-Quality Service.We believe we offer a very high level of onboard service and to further enhance this service we have implemented the
Norwegian Platinum Standards program. This program introduces specific standards emphasizing dedicated service, consistency in execution, and overall guest satisfaction which we believe will promote customer loyalty.



•Diverse Selection of Premium Itineraries.In 2013, approximately 60% of our itineraries, by Capacity Days, were in more exotic, less-penetrated
and less-traditional locations, including Alaska, Hawaii, Bermuda and Europe, compared to the other contemporary brands which are focused primarily on itineraries in the Caribbean and Mexico. This mix of destinations is more consistent with the
brands in the premium segment, and these itineraries typically attract higher Net Yields than Caribbean and Mexico sailings. We believe that this high-quality product offering positions us well in comparison to the other Major North American Cruise
Brands and provides an opportunity for continued Net Yield growth.

“Freestyle Cruising”

The most important differentiator for our brand is the “Freestyle Cruising” concept onboard all 13 of our ships. The essence of “Freestyle
Cruising” is to provide a cruise experience that offers more freedom and flexibility than any other traditional cruise alternative. While many cruise lines have historically required guests to dine at assigned group tables and at specified
times, “Freestyle Cruising” offers the flexibility and choice to our guests who prefer to dine when they want, with whomever they want and without having to dress formally. Additionally, we have increased the number of activities and
dining facilities available onboard, allowing guests to tailor their onboard experience to their own schedules, desires and tastes.

All of
our ships have been custom designed and purpose-built for “Freestyle Cruising,” which we believe differentiates us significantly from our major competitors. We further believe that “Freestyle Cruising” attracts a passenger base
that prefers the less structured, resort-style experience of our cruises. We continue to introduce initiatives that enhance the “Freestyle Cruising” experience, most recently with







the fleet-wide upgrade of our youth programs and the addition of the popular specialty dining venue, Moderno Churrascaria, to many of our ships. With Norwegian Epic, Norwegian Breakaway and
Norwegian Getaway we have further enhanced “Freestyle Cruising” by offering what we believe to be unmatched flexibility in entertainment, which includes a wide variety of activities and programming to choose from at any time of day or
night.

Established Brand Recognition

The Norwegian Cruise Line brand is well established in the cruise industry with a long track record of delivering a world class cruise product offering to its guests. We achieve high-quality feedback
scores from our guests in the areas of overall service, physical ship attributes, onboard products and services, food and beverage offerings and overall entertainment and land-based excursion quality. Based on recent guest experience and loyalty
reports, the quality of our guests’ experience generates high levels of customer loyalty, as demonstrated by the fact that approximately 37% of our guests are repeat guests and approximately 80% say they would recommend Norwegian Cruise Line to
their friends and family. Brand recognition is also strong with over 93% of cruisers reporting familiarity with Norwegian. Additionally, our brand is known for freedom, flexibility and choice, all highly valued benefits within the cruise industry
demographic.

Strong Cash Flow

Nearly all of our capital expenditures relate to the maintenance of our modern fleet and shoreside operations, which includes investments in our IT
infrastructure and business intelligence systems. Other capital expenditures include those related to our newbuild projects (which are substantially financed), the recent renovation of our private island, Great Stirrup Cay, and the development of
our future cruise destination in Belize. We have export credit financing in place for the Breakaway Plus Class Ships which will fund approximately 80% of the required pre-delivery and delivery date construction payments; as such, we expect the cost
of our newbuild projects to have a minimal impact on our cash flow in the near term. We are able to generate significant levels of cash flow due to our ability to pre-sell tickets and receive customer deposits with long lead times ahead of sailing.

Highly Experienced Management Team

Our senior management team is comprised of executives with an average of 17 years experience in the cruise, travel, leisure and hospitality-related industries. Our executive team has streamlined our
organization and instilled a results-driven management philosophy that promotes direct accountability and a more nimble decision-making culture that contributed in driving approximately 1,350 basis points of operating income margin expansion since
the beginning of 2008 through the end of 2013. We believe our incentive plans closely align the interests of our management team and our shareholders.

Strong Sponsors with Extensive Industry Expertise

Our Sponsors or their affiliates have
extensive experience investing in the cruise, leisure and travel-related industries. Affiliates of the Apollo Funds have invested significant equity and resources to the cruise and leisure industry with their investment in Prestige Cruises
International, Inc. which operates through two distinct upscale cruise brands, Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises. In addition, affiliates of both Apollo and TPG have investments in Caesars Entertainment, with whom we have created a
marketing alliance. Affiliates of TPG are also significant investors in Sabre Holdings, a leading GDS (global distribution system) and parent of Travelocity.com. Genting HK, headquartered in Hong Kong, operates a leading Asian cruise line through
its subsidiary, Star Cruises Asia Holding Ltd., with destinations in Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan, Vietnam, China and Thailand. We believe that the synergies and purchasing power obtained through these affiliates have resulted in
better price negotiations for us and our affiliates for selected supplies and services.

Our Business Strategies

We seek to attract vacationers by offering new products and services and creating differentiated itineraries in new markets through new and existing
modern ships with the aim of delivering a better, value-added, vacation experience to our guests relative to other broad-based or land-based leisure alternatives. Our business strategies include the following:

Attractive Product Offerings

We have a
long history of product development and innovation within the cruise industry as one of the most established consumer brands. We are the first cruise operator to purchase a private island in the Bahamas and offer a private beach experience to our
guests, and we were the first to introduce a 2,000-Berth megaship into the Caribbean market in 1980. We also pioneered new concepts in cruising with the development of “Homeland Cruising” and the launch of “Freestyle Cruising.”







Norwegian Breakaway and Norwegian Getaway include new and differentiated features, including a quarter-mile oceanfront boardwalk, The Waterfront, which
creates outdoor seating areas for many dining venues and lounges, including our first seafood restaurant, “Ocean Blue by Geoffrey Zakarian.” The centrally located “678 Ocean Place” connects three entire decks of daytime and
nighttime entertainment. Master Baker Buddy Valastro, of the popular TLC series “Cake Boss,” offers Carlo’s Bake Shop onboard. The Illusionarium onboard Norwegian Getaway is a new dining and entertainment experience that envelop
guests in the world of magic. Norwegian Breakaway, the largest cruise ship to homeport in New York City, was developed with a strong New York theme which includes the Radio City Rockettes® as the ship’s godmothers and hull art by one of New
York’s most famous artists, Peter Max. Similarly, as the largest cruise ship to homeport year-round in Miami, Norwegian Getaway is themed with the Miami Dolphins Cheerleaders as godmothers and hull art designed by Miami’s David
“LEBO” Le Batard.

We have completed more than $25 million of renovations to our private island, Great Stirrup Cay, which includes a
new marina, dining and bar facility, as well as offers private cabanas and new activities to enhance the guest experience. The enhancements provide us with additional revenue-generating opportunities on the island. In 2013, we purchased a future
cruise destination in Belize which will be introduced in 2015.

Maximize Net Yields

We are focused on growing our revenue through various initiatives aimed at increasing our ticket prices and occupancy as well as onboard spending to drive
higher overall Net Yields. To maximize passenger ticket revenue, our revenue management strategy is focused on optimizing pricing and generating demand throughout the booking curve. We utilize a base-loading strategy to fill our capacity by booking
guests as early before sailing as possible. Base-loading is a strategy that focuses on selling inventory further from the cruise departure date by utilizing certain sales and marketing tactics to generate business with longer booking windows which
allows us to fill our ships earlier, rather than discounting close to sailing dates, in order to achieve our targeted Occupancy Percentages. Our specific initiatives to achieve this include:



•Casino Player Strategy.As part of this strategy, we have non-exclusive arrangements with over 100 casino partners worldwide including Caesars
Entertainment, in which affiliates of both Apollo and TPG have investments, whereby loyal gaming guests are offered cruise reward certificates redeemable for cruises on our ships. Through property sponsored events and joint marketing programs, we
have the opportunity to market cruises to Caesars Entertainment’s guests. These arrangements with our casino partners have the dual benefit of filling open inventory and reaching guests expected to generate above average onboard revenue through
the casino and other onboard spending.



•Strategic Relationships.Our base-loading strategy also includes strategic relationships with travel agencies and international tour operators,
who commit to purchasing a certain level of inventory with long lead times.



•Meetings, Incentives and Charters.We are increasing our focus on the meetings, incentives and charters channel, which typically books very far
in advance and can represent a significant portion of the ship, or even an entire sailing, in one transaction.

We continue
to focus on various initiatives to drive increased onboard revenue across a variety of areas. From the year ended December 31, 2007 to the year ended December 31, 2013, our net onboard and other revenue yield increased by 31.8% from $40.58
to $53.50 primarily due to strong performance in casino, beverage sales, shore excursions and specialty dining. Our strategy for further driving increased onboard revenue includes, among other things, generating additional casino revenue through our
arrangements with our casino partners, including Caesars Entertainment and Genting HK. These arrangements incorporate marketing







resources to deliver cross-company advertising and marketing campaigns to promote our brand. We also focus on optimizing the utilization of our specialty restaurants and pre-booking and
pre-selling additional onboard activities. In addition, Norwegian Epic, Norwegian Breakaway and Norwegian Getaway have created additional onboard revenue opportunities based on our premium entertainment offerings.

Brand Expansion Through Disciplined Newbuild Program

Norwegian Getaway was delivered in January 2014 with approximately 144,000 Gross Tons and 4,000 Berths. We also have orders with Meyer Werft for two additional ships for delivery in the fourth quarter of
2015 and the first quarter of 2017. These ships, Norwegian Escape and Norwegian Bliss, will be the largest in our fleet at approximately 163,000 Gross Tons with 4,200 Berths each and will be similar in design and innovation to our Breakaway Class
Ships. The combined contract cost of these two additional ships is approximately €1.4 billion, or $1.9 billion based on the euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate as of December 31, 2013. We have export credit financing in place that provides
financing for 80% of their contract price. We believe that these ships will allow us to continue to expand the reach of our brand while driving shareholder value by positioning our Company for accelerated growth with an optimized return on invested
capital.

Improve Operating Efficiency and Lower Costs

We are continually focused on driving financial improvement through a variety of business improvement initiatives. These initiatives are focused on reducing costs while at the same time improving the
overall product we deliver to our guests. Since the beginning of 2008, we have significantly reduced our operating cost base through various programs including contract renegotiations, overhead rationalization, and fuel consumption reduction
initiatives. We hedge our fuel purchases in order to provide greater visibility of our fuel expense. As of December 31, 2013, we had hedged approximately 65%, 53% and 15% of our 2014, 2015 and 2016 projected metric tons of fuel purchases,
respectively. We have also reduced our maintenance expense as a result of our fleet renewal program, as younger, more modern ships are typically less costly to maintain than older ships. Adjusted EBITDA grew to $647.2 million for the year ended
December 31, 2013, from $332.3 million for the year ended 2009 with an increase in Adjusted EBITDA Margin to 25.2% from 17.9%, respectively, (we refer you to “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” for a calculation of Adjusted EBITDA). In addition, we expect the economies of scale from Norwegian Breakaway, Norwegian Getaway and the Breakaway Plus Class Ships to drive further operating efficiencies over the long
term.

Expand and Strengthen Our Product Distribution Channels

As part of our growth strategy, we are continually looking for ways to deepen and expand our customer sales channels. We continue to invest in our brand by enhancing our website and our reservation
department where our travel agents and guests have the ability to book cruise vacations. We also restructured our sales and marketing organization, which included the recruiting of a new executive leadership team, to provide better focus on
distribution through our primary channels: “Retail/Travel Agent,” “International,” and “Meetings, Incentives and Charters.”



•Retail/Travel Agent.We introduced our Partners First program in 2010 and since then have implemented over 200 initiatives specifically designed
to improve our efficiency with travel agent channels and our guests. Recently, we revolutionized and streamlined our booking process by introducing “Universal Agents” that have the ability to handle both group and full individual tariff
bookings. In addition, we launched a new online-booking tool that features an array of new functionalities that give travel partners more freedom and flexibility when making reservations online, such as the ability to customize the management and
promotion of group reservations. To improve communication, we launched “Ask Away,” a first of its kind, live, video-based chat that gives travel partners the opportunity to interact with Norwegian executives and ask hard-hitting questions.
We believe that with these changes, and our effort to continuously improve, our travel partners will continue to witness a material improvement in our business practices and overall communication.



•International.We have an international sales presence in Europe and representatives covering Latin America, Australia and Asia. We are
primarily focused on increasing our business in the European market, which has grown significantly in recent years but remains under-penetrated. In Europe, we offer local itineraries year-round and our “Freestyle Cruising” has been well
received. We expanded our sales force in Europe which allows us to develop our distribution in Europe in a manner similar to our U.S. operation. In support of this European strategy, in 2013 we deployed Norwegian Epic in Europe for an extended
summer season and announced a year-round deployment for 2015. We also initiated a two-ship year-round deployment in Europe with Norwegian Jade and Norwegian Spirit. We are forging a closer distribution partnership with Genting HK to develop product
distribution across the Asia Pacific region.



•Meetings, Incentives and Charters.This channel focuses on full ship Charters as well as corporate meeting and incentive travel. These sales
often have very long lead times and can fill a significant portion of the ship’s capacity, or







even an entire sailing, in one transaction. In addition, this channel strengthens base-loading, which allows us to fill our ships earlier, rather than discounting close to sailing dates, in order
to achieve our targeted Occupancy Percentages. The acquisition of Sixthman, a company specializing in developing and delivering music-oriented charters, opened up a new market for our travel partners to be able to sell high quality music experiences
at sea to guests seeking more innovative entertainment options.

Across every distribution channel we are undertaking a
major effort to grow demand with a targeted sales and marketing program for our premium stateroom categories, including our balcony and other premium stateroom categories, with a particular emphasis on our suites and The Haven, which have increased
as a percentage of our total inventory as a result of our fleet renewal.

Strategic Marketing Partnerships

We seek to develop strategic marketing partnerships with well-known entertainment, sports and lifestyle brands which complement our brand positioning. Our
partnership with the Radio City Rockettes®, who christened Norwegian Breakaway, includes a marketing partnership that names Norwegian as the “Official Cruise Line” of the Rockettes and Radio City Music Hall® and an “Official
Partner” of the Radio City Christmas Spectacular. In addition, an exhibit showcasing the history of the Rockettes is integrated into the ship. Norwegian is also the “Official Cruise Line” of the New York Knicks basketball team,
strengthening Norwegian Breakaway’s branding as New York’s ship. To bolster the ties between Norwegian Getaway and her homeport of Miami, Norwegian is the “Official Cruise Line” of the Miami Dolphins and Sun Life Stadium. In
addition, the Miami Dolphin Cheerleaders served as godmothers of Norwegian Getaway which houses a selection of Miami Dolphins memorabilia. Norwegian is also the “Official Cruise Line Partner” of the GRAMMY Awards® and offers the first
GRAMMY® Experience at Sea, a venue for musical performances that include GRAMMY® winning and nominated artists on Norwegian Getaway. We also recently announced a partnership with the Michael Mondavi Family to enhance our wine program
fleet-wide.

Our Fleet

Our ships are purpose-built ships that enable us to provide our guests with the ultimate “Freestyle Cruising” experience. Our ships have
state-of-the-art passenger amenities, including over 20 dining options together with hundreds of private balcony staterooms on each ship. As of January 31, 2014, 53% of our staterooms have private balconies representing a higher mix of outside
staterooms with balconies than the other contemporary brands. Private balcony staterooms are very popular with guests and offer the opportunity for increased revenue by allowing us to charge a premium. Seven of our ships offer accommodations in The
Haven, with suites up to 932 square feet, which provide personal butler service and exclusive access to a private courtyard area with private pool, sundecks, hot tubs, and fitness center. In addition, six of our ships have luxury garden villas with
up to 6,694 square feet, making them the largest accommodations at sea. These luxury garden villas offer three separate bedroom areas, spacious living and dining room areas, as well as 24-hour, on call butler and concierge service.

We place the utmost importance on the safety of our guests and crew. Every crew member is well trained in the Company’s stringent safety protocols
and participates in weekly safety drills onboard every one of our ships. In addition, our ships utilize operational closed circuit television systems, an advanced, intranet-based Safety and Environmental Management System (“SEMS”) for
shipboard and shoreside procedures and self-improvement standards.

Our new ships on order are the next-generation of “Freestyle
Cruising” ships and include some of the most popular elements of our recently delivered ships together with new and differentiated features. One such feature is The Haven, which consists of luxury suites included on our Jewel Class Ships, as
well as Norwegian Epic, Norwegian Breakaway and Norwegian Getaway. We also introduced The Waterfront, a quarter-mile oceanfront boardwalk which creates outdoor seating areas for many dining venues and lounges and the centrally located “678
Ocean Place” which connects three entire decks of daytime and nighttime entertainment.

Continuing our tradition of new product
development and the extension of the Norwegian Cruise Line brand, Norwegian Breakaway and Norwegian Getaway offer our guests many of the popular entertainment activities of Norwegian Epic such as the dueling pianos of “Howl at the Moon,”
new jazz and blues venues and programming from Nickelodeon.

Norwegian Breakaway, the largest cruise ship to ever homeport in New York City,
was developed with a strong New York theme. The hull artwork was designed by famed New York artist Peter Max, New York-based celebrity chef Geoffrey Zakarian has created our first seafood-centric dining venue, “Ocean Blue by Geoffrey
Zakarian” and Master Baker Buddy Valastro of the popular TLC Series “Cake Boss,” offers Carlo’s Bake Shop onboard. The Radio City Rockettes® christened Norwegian Breakaway and an exhibit showcasing the Rockettes is integrated
into the ship. This relationship also includes two Rockettes sailing on select voyages and offering special fitness classes and photo opportunities. Entertainment programming includes the 80’s-inspired rock musical “Rock of Ages,”
ballroom dance experience “Burn the Floor” and “Cirque Dreams™ & Dinner: Jungle Fantasy.”







Continuing our commitment to Miami, Norwegian Getaway, sister ship to Norwegian Breakaway, with hull artwork
designed by Miami artist David “LEBO” Le Batard, homeports in Miami year-round offering Eastern Caribbean cruises. The addition of Norwegian Getaway provides a consistent itinerary that our travel partners have requested in order to
provide guests with a year-round “Freestyle Cruising” option from Miami. Norwegian Getaway also features “Ocean Blue by Geoffrey Zakarian” and Carlo’s Bake Shop. Other Miami-themed venues include The Tropicana Room, The
Flamingo Bar & Grill, the Sugarcane Mojito Bar and The Sunset Bar, with inspiration from Ernest Hemingway’s Key West. Entertainment programming includes productions of “Legally Blonde” and “Burn the Floor” as well
as The Illusionarium, a new and unique dining and entertainment experience that will envelop guests in the world of magic and illusions. Norwegian Getaway is the first ship to feature the GRAMMY® Experience at Sea, which includes artifacts
chosen and curated by the GRAMMY Museum® along with live performances by GRAMMY® winners and nominees, among others.

The table below
provides a brief description of our ships and areas of operation based on projected 2014 itineraries:



Ship(1)Year DeliveredBerthsGross TonsPrimary Areas of OperationNorwegian Getaway20144,000144,000CaribbeanNorwegian Breakaway20134,000144,000Bermuda, CaribbeanNorwegian Epic20104,100155,900Caribbean, EuropeNorwegian Gem20072,40093,500Bahamas, Caribbean, Canada and New EnglandNorwegian Jade20062,40093,600EuropeNorwegian Pearl20062,40093,500Alaska, Bahamas, Caribbean, Pacific Coastal and Panama CanalNorwegian Jewel20052,38093,500Alaska, Bahamas, Caribbean, Pacific Coastal and Panama CanalPride of America20052,20080,400HawaiiNorwegian Dawn20022,34092,300Bermuda, Caribbean, Canada and New EnglandNorwegian Star20012,35091,700Caribbean, EuropeNorwegian Sun20011,94078,300Caribbean, AlaskaNorwegian Sky19992,00077,100BahamasNorwegian Spirit19982,00075,300Europe



(1)The table does not include Norwegian Escape or Norwegian Bliss, which are scheduled for delivery in the fourth quarter of 2015 and the first quarter of 2017,
respectively.

Itineraries

We offer cruise itineraries ranging from one day to three weeks calling on over 100 worldwide locations, including destinations in the Caribbean, Bermuda, the Bahamas, Mexico, Alaska, Europe, Hawaii, New
England, Central America, North Africa and Scandinavia. We have developed, and are continuing to develop, innovative itineraries to position our ships in new and niche markets as well as in the mainstream markets throughout the Americas and Europe.
For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 60% of our itineraries, by Capacity Days, were in more exotic, under-penetrated and less traditional locations (areas outside of the Caribbean and Bahamas) which we believe allows us to
generate higher Net Yield.

Ports and Facilities

We have an agreement with the Government of Bermuda whereby two of our ships are permitted weekly calls in Bermuda through 2018 from Boston, Baltimore, Charleston and New York. In addition, we own a
private island in the Bahamas, Great Stirrup Cay, which we utilize as a port-of-call on certain itineraries. We have a contract with the New York City Economic Development Corporation pursuant to which we receive preferential berthing rights on
specific piers at the city’s passenger ship terminals. Furthermore, we have contracts with the Port of New Orleans and the Port of Miami pursuant to which we receive preferential berths to the exclusion of other vessels for certain specified
days of the week at the cities’ cruise ship terminals. We have an agreement with the Houston Port Authority through April 15, 2017 for certain exclusive berthing rights at the Houston Passenger Cruise Terminal. We have a concession
permit with the U.S. National Park Service whereby our ships are permitted to call on Glacier Bay during each summer cruise season through September 30, 2019. Most recently, we entered into an agreement with the British Virgin Islands Port
Authority granting priority berthing rights for a 15-year term with two options to extend the agreement for additional five year terms. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs, and that we are capable of obtaining
additional facilities as necessary.







Revenue Management Practices

Our cruise ticket prices generally include cruise fare and a wide variety of onboard activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment. In some instances, cruise ticket prices include round-trip
airfare to and from the port of embarkation. Prices vary depending on the particular cruise itinerary, stateroom category selected and the time of year that the voyage takes place. We generate additional revenue on our ships principally from casino
operations, beverage sales, specialty dining, shore excursions, gift shop purchases, spa services, photo and other similar items.

Passenger Ticket Revenue

Onboard and Other Revenue

Ticket prices typically include cruise accommodations, meals in certain dining facilities and many onboard activities such as entertainment, pool-side
activities and various sports programs. We generate additional revenue on our ships principally from casino operations, beverage sales, specialty dining, shore excursions, gift shop purchases, spa services, photo and other similar items. Onboard and
other revenue is an important component of our revenue base representing 29.4% of our 2013 total revenue. To maximize onboard revenue, we use various cross marketing and promotional tools and are supported by point-of-sale systems permitting
“cashless” transactions for the sale of these onboard products and services. Food and beverage, gaming and shore excursions are managed directly by the Company while retail shops, spa services, art auctions and internet services are
managed through contracts with third-party concessionaires. These contracts generally entitle us to a fixed percentage of the gross sales derived from these concessions.

Seasonality

The seasonality of the North American cruise industry generally results
in the greatest demand for cruises during the summer months. This predictable seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations. The seasonality of our results is increased due to ships being taken out of
service for regularly scheduled Dry-docks, which we typically schedule during non-peak demand periods.

Sales and Marketing

Product Distribution Channels and Sales

We sell our product through our primary distribution channels: retail/travel agent, international and meetings, incentives and charters. The retail/travel agent channel represents the majority of our
ticket sales. Guests utilizing this channel book their cruises through independent travel agents who sell our itineraries on a non-exclusive, commission-based basis. Given the importance of the retail/travel agent channel, a major focus of our
marketing strategy is motivating and supporting our travel partners. Our travel partner base is comprised of an extensive network of approximately 23,000 independent travel agencies including brick and mortar, internet-based and home-based operators
located in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and Australia.

We introduced our Partners First program in 2010 and since then have
implemented over 200 initiatives specifically designed to improve our efficiency with travel agent channels and our guests, ranging from more timely commission payments to aggressive call center quality monitoring. We also restructured our travel
agent sales force, allowing us to more effectively support the larger accounts with specific expertise and also gain access to a significantly larger number of travel partners through an outbound call center.

Outside of the U.S., we have an international sales presence in Europe and representatives covering Latin America, Australia and Asia. We are primarily
focused on increasing our business in the United Kingdom and Continental Europe markets, which have grown significantly in recent years and where we now offer local itineraries year-round. We have modified our itineraries to increase demand by
appealing to guests in different markets including the United Kingdom, Italy, Germany and Spain. We have had success with our base-loading initiatives in Europe, where our “Freestyle Cruising” has been well received, and are in the process
of building our sales force in Europe.







Finally, our meetings, incentives and charters channel focuses on full ship Charters as well as corporate
meeting and incentive travel. These sales often have very long lead times and can represent a significant portion of the ship, or even an entire sailing, in one transaction. In addition, it strengthens base-loading, which allows us to fill our ships
earlier, rather than discounting close to sailing dates, in order to achieve our targeted Occupancy Percentages.

We have undertaken a major
effort to grow demand across all channels with a targeted sales and marketing program for our premium stateroom categories, including The Haven, which has increased significantly as a percentage of our total inventory as a result of our fleet
renewal and newbuild program.

Supporting our sales efforts across several distribution channels are our call centers located in Florida,
Arizona, the United Kingdom and Germany with approximately 700 personnel oriented towards servicing travel agents. We believe that our diverse locations should minimize risks associated with natural disasters, labor markets and other factors which
could impact the operation of our call centers.

Marketing, Brand Communications and Advertising

Our marketing department works to enhance our brand awareness and increase levels of engagement and understanding of our product and services among
consumers, trade and travel partners. Core areas within the department include brand strategy, advertising and media, marketing communications, direct marketing, customer loyalty, website/interactive and market research. All marketing supports our
comprehensive brand platform created expressly to leverage our unique “Freestyle Cruising” concept. With this emphasis, we launched a new brand platform in October 2011, “Cruise Like a Norwegian,” which is intended to develop
community around Norwegian Cruise Line and communicates our commitment to providing an exceptional vacation experience centered around freedom and flexibility. The media mix has included television, print, radio, digital, e-mail, direct mail and
billboards. In addition to our NCL University online, which is an informative travel partner education program, we introduced a new component to our travel partner marketing, “Partners First.” As a result, a survey with travel agents
indicates we have improved in ease of doing business.

We have made significant progress in expanding our marketing reach with our online
products and services. Our website, www.ncl.com, serving both our travel agency partners and guests, has been a major focus of this momentum. We are continually enhancing our website to ensure that it communicates our brand promise, promotes
relevant product information and aligns with our “Cruise Like a Norwegian” and “Freestyle Cruising” messages. Our consumer and travel agency partner booking engine provides travel agency partners and guests the ability to shop
and purchase any of our worldwide cruise itineraries with a more intuitive and informative online experience. We continue to develop additional functionality and tools to serve our travel agency partners and guests.

Sustainable customer loyalty of our past guests is an important element of our marketing strategy. We believe that attending to our past guests’
needs and motivations creates a cost-effective means of attracting business, particularly to our new itineraries, because past guests are familiar with our brand, products and services and often return to our ships. The Norwegian Cruise Line loyalty
program has been improved and is now known as Latitudes Rewards. Improvements to the loyalty program include incentives and rewards allowing guests to earn points based on the number of cruise nights, level of accommodations and certain booking
windows. Members of this program receive periodic mailings with informative destination information and cruise promotions that include special pricing, shipboard credits and onboard recognition. Also, avid cruisers can use our co-branded credit card
to earn upgrades and discounts.

Customer feedback and research is also a critically important element in the development of our overall
marketing and business strategies. We regularly initiate custom research studies among both travel partners and consumers to assess the impact of various programs and/or to solicit feedback that helps shape future direction.

Ship Operations and Cruise Infrastructure

Ship Maintenance

In addition to routine repairs and maintenance performed on an ongoing
basis and in accordance with applicable requirements, each of our ships is generally taken out of service, approximately every 24 to 60 months, for a period of one or more weeks for scheduled maintenance work, repairs and improvements performed in
Dry-dock. Dry-dock duration is a statutory requirement controlled under chapters of the International Convention of the Safety of Life at Seas (“SOLAS”) and to some extent the International Load Lines Convention. Under these regulations,
it is required that a passenger ship Dry-dock twice in 5 years and the maximum duration between each Dry-dock cannot exceed 3 years. However, most of our international ships qualify under a special exemption provided by the Bahamas (flag state)
after meeting certain criteria set forth by the Bahamas to Dry-dock once every 5 years. To the extent practical, each ship’s crew, catering and hotel staff remain with the ship during the Dry-dock period and assist in performing repair







and maintenance work. We do not earn revenue while ships are Dry-docked. Accordingly, Dry-dock work is typically performed during non-peak demand periods to minimize the adverse effect on revenue
that results from ships being out of service. Dry-docks are typically scheduled in spring or autumn and depend on shipyard availability.

Suppliers

Our largest capital
expenditures are for ship construction and acquisition. Our largest operating expenditures are for payroll, fuel, food and beverage, travel agent services and advertising and marketing. Most of the supplies that we require are available from
numerous sources at competitive prices. In addition, owing to the large quantities that we purchase, we can obtain favorable prices for many of our supplies. Our purchases are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. Payment terms granted by the
suppliers are generally customary terms for the cruise industry.

Crew and Passenger Safety

We place the utmost importance on the safety of our guests and crew. We operate all of our vessels to meet and exceed the requirements of SOLAS and the
International Safety Management Code maritime standards, the international safety requirements which govern the cruise industry. Every crew member is well trained in the Company’s stringent safety protocols, participating in weekly safety
drills onboard every one of our ships.

Our Captains are experienced seafarers. We further ensure that our Captains regularly undergo rigorous
simulation training on navigation and bridge operations. To assist our Captains and Officers while at sea, we have extensive navigation protocols in place. Our bridge operations are based on a two-person team approach. Accordingly, there are always
two officers in charge of bridge operations, mandating strict adherence to operating procedures. Furthermore, our bridge teams follow pre-set voyage plans which are thoroughly reviewed and discussed by the Captain and bridge team prior to port
departures and arrivals. In addition, all of our ships employ the latest state-of-the-art navigational equipment and technology to ensure that our bridge teams have the most accurate data regarding the planned itinerary.

Prior to every cruise setting sail, we hold a mandatory safety drill for all guests during which important safety information is reviewed and
demonstrated. We also show an extensive safety video which runs continuously on the stateroom televisions. Our fleet is equipped with modern navigational control and fire prevention and control systems. In recent years, our ships have continuously
been upgraded and include internal and external regulatory audits. We have installed HI-FOG sprinklers in the engine rooms of the ships in our fleet, as required by the IMO regulation. The navigation centers on our ships are also equipped with
voyage data recorders (“VDRs”), which are similar in concept to the black boxes used in commercial aircraft. The VDRs permit us to analyze safety incidents. Our ships utilize operational closed circuit television systems that enhance our
training, assist in investigations and support the safety of guests and crew.

We have developed the SEMS and this advanced, intranet-based
system establishes the policies, procedures, training, qualification, quality, compliance, audit, and self-improvement standards for all employees, both shipboard and shoreside. It also provides real-time reports and information to support the fleet
and risk management decisions. Through this system, our senior managers, as well as ship management, can focus on consistent, high quality operation of the fleet. The SEMS is approved and audited annually by our classification society Det Norske
Veritas (DNV), and the system also undergoes regular internal audits as well as an annual audit by the U.S. Coast Guard. We screen and train our crew to ensure crew familiarity and proficiency with the safety equipment onboard. Various safety
measures have been implemented on all of our ships and additional personnel have been appointed in our ship operations departments. We believe that we are in compliance with current health and safety rules and regulations.

Employees

As of December 31, 2013,
we employed approximately 1,900 full-time employees worldwide in our shoreside operations and approximately 15,000 shipboard employees. Also, we refer you to “Risk Factors—Risk factors related to our business—Amendments to the
collective bargaining agreements for crew members of our fleet and other employee relation issues may adversely affect our financial results” for more information regarding our relationships with union employees and our collective bargaining
agreements that are currently in place.

Insurance

We maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, which are maintained in amounts related to the estimated market value of each ship. The coverage for each of the hull and machinery policies
is maintained with syndicates of insurance underwriters from the European and U.S. insurance markets.







In addition to the insurance coverage on the hull and machinery of our ships discussed above, we seek to
maintain comprehensive insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates and believe that our current coverage is at appropriate levels to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business. We carry:



•Protection and indemnity insurance (that covers third-party liabilities), including insurance against risk of fuel spill;



•Hull and machinery insurance, war risk insurance, including terrorist risk insurance, on each ship. The terms of our war risk policies include
provisions where underwriters can give seven days’ notice to the insured that the policies will be cancelled in the event of a change of risk which is typical for policies in the marine industry. Upon any proposed cancellation the insurer
shall, before expiry of the seven day period, submit new terms;



•Tour operator insurance;



•Insurance for cash onboard; and



•Insurance for our shoreside property and general liability risks.

We believe that all of our insurance coverage, including those noted above, is subject to market-standard limitations, exclusions and deductible levels.

The Athens Convention Relating to the Carriage of Passengers and Their Luggage by Sea (1974) (the “Athens Convention”) and the Protocol to
the Athens Convention Relating to the Carriage of Passengers and Their Luggage by Sea (1976) (the “1976 Protocol”) are generally applicable to passenger ships. The U.S. has not ratified the Athens Convention; however, with limited
exceptions, the 1976 Protocol may be contractually enforced with respect to cruises that do not call at a U.S. port. The International Maritime Organization Diplomatic Conference agreed to a new protocol to the Athens Convention on November 1,
2002 (the “2002 Protocol”). The 2002 Protocol, which is scheduled to take effect on April 23, 2014, establishes for the first time a level of compulsory insurance which must be maintained by passenger ship operators with a right of
direct action against the insurer.

On December 31, 2012, the EU Passenger Liability Regulation became effective and requires us to carry
a minimum level of financial responsibility per passenger per incident.

Trademarks

We own a number of registered trademarks relating to, among other things, the names “NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE,” “CRUISE LIKE A
NORWEGIAN,” the names of our ships (except where trademark applications for these have been filed and are pending), incentive programs and specialty services rendered on our ships and specialty accommodations such as “THE HAVEN BY
NORWEGIAN.” In addition, we own registered trademarks relating to the “FREESTYLE” family of names, including, “FREESTYLE CRUISING,” “FREESTYLE DINING” and “FREESTYLE VACATION.” Other significant marks
include our SCHOOL OF FISH DESIGN marks that display one fish swimming against a school of fish. We believe our “NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE,” “CRUISE LIKE A NORWEGIAN,” “FREESTYLE CRUISING,” “FREESTYLE DINING,” and
“FREESTYLE VACATION,” the names of our ships as well as the SCHOOL OF FISH DESIGN and CRUISE LIKE A NORWEGIAN logos are widely recognized throughout North America and Europe and have considerable value.

Competition

We compete in the
multi-night global cruise vacation industry. Although this sector has grown significantly over the past decade, it still remains a relatively small part of the broadly defined global vacation market that has historically been dominated by land-based
vacation alternatives. The different cruise brands that make up the global cruise vacation industry historically have been segmented by product offering and service quality into contemporary, premium and luxury cruises. The contemporary segment
generally includes cruises on larger ships that last seven days or less, provides a casual ambiance and is less expensive than the premium or luxury segments. The premium segment generally is characterized by cruises that last from seven to 14
nights with a higher quality product offering than the contemporary segment, appealing to a more affluent demographic. The luxury segment generally offers the highest level of services and quality with longer cruises on the smallest ships.

We compete primarily with the other Major North American Cruise Brands, which together comprise approximately 90% of the North American
cruise market as measured by total Berths. These brands include Carnival Cruise Lines and Royal Caribbean International which comprise the contemporary segment and Holland America, Princess Cruises and Celebrity Cruises which are part of the premium
segment. As of December 31, 2013, Norwegian Cruise Line accounted for approximately 13% of the Major North American Cruise Brands’ capacity in terms of Berths. We compete against all of these operators principally on the quality of our
ships, our differentiated product offering, selection of our itineraries and value proposition of our cruises. We also face competition from non-cruise vacation alternatives, including beach resorts, golf and tennis resorts, theme parks, land-based
gaming operations, and other hotels and tourist destinations.







Regulatory Issues

Registration of Our Ships

Twelve of the ships that we currently operate are registered in
the Bahamas. One of our ships, Pride of America, is a U.S.-flagged ship. Our ships registered in the Bahamas are inspected at least annually pursuant to Bahamian requirements. Our U.S.-registered ship is subject to laws and regulations of the U.S.
federal government and to various U.S. federal regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Public Health Service and the U.S. Coast Guard. Our U.S.-flagged ship is also regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”)
and U.S. Department of Labor.

Health and Environment

Our various ports of call subject our ships to international and U.S. laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including but not limited to the International Convention for the
Prevention of Pollution from Ships (“MARPOL”). Under such laws and regulations, we are prohibited from, among other things, discharging certain materials, such as petrochemicals and plastics, into the waterways. Specifically, in the U.S.,
we comply with the newly implemented U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Vessel General Discharge permit.

Also in the U.S., we must
meet the U.S. Public Health Service’s requirements, including ratings by inspectors from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) and the FDA. We believe we rate at the top of the range of CDC and FDA scores achieved by
the major cruise lines. In addition, the cruise industry and the U.S. Public Health Service have agreed on regulations for food, water and hygiene to assist cruise lines in achieving the highest health and sanitation standards on cruise ships.

In 2012, we received our International Organization for Standardization’s (“ISO”) 9001:2008 certification which is the primary
globally accepted standard for quality assurance and quality performance. This is a milestone which sets the stage for quality operations and guest satisfaction. Furthermore, Norwegian is certified under the ISO 14001 Standard. This voluntary
standard sets requirements for establishment and implementation of a comprehensive environmental management system which we have adopted for our operations. Currently we operate under an Environmental Management Plan that is incorporated into the
SEMS program.

Pursuant to U.S. Federal Maritime Commission (“FMC”) and U.S. Coast Guard regulations, we have covered our financial
responsibility with respect to death or injury to passengers and water pollution by providing required guarantees from our insurers with respect to such potential liabilities. This includes obtaining Certificates of Financial Responsibility required
by the U.S. Coast Guard relating to our ability to satisfy liabilities in cases of water pollution.

Permits for Glacier Bay, Alaska

In connection with certain of our Alaska cruise operations, we rely on concession permits from the U.S. National Park Service to operate
our ships in Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve. We currently hold a concession permit allowing for 22 calls per summer cruising season through September 30, 2019. However, there can be no assurance that such permit will be renewed when
necessary or that regulations relating to the renewal of such permit will remain unchanged in the future.







Security and Safety

Pursuant to provisions adopted by the IMO, all cruise ships were required to be certified as having safety procedures that comply with the requirements of the International Management Code for the Safe
Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention (“ISM Code”). We have obtained certificates certifying that our ships are in compliance with the ISM Code. Each such certificate is granted for a five-year period and is subject to periodic
verification.

We believe that our ships currently comply with all requirements of the IMO and the U.S. and Bahamian flags, including but not
limited to SOLAS, MARPOL and the Standard of Training Certification and Watch Keeping for Seafarers (“STCW”). The SOLAS requirements are amended and extended by the IMO from time to time. For example, the International Port and Ship
Facility Code (“ISPS Code”), was adopted by the IMO in December 2002 and provides for measures strengthening maritime security and places new requirements on governments, port authorities and shipping companies in relation to security
issues on ships and in ports. We comply with the ISPS Code.

In addition to the requirements of the ISPS Code, the U.S. Congress enacted the
Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”), which implements a number of security measures at ports in the U.S. including measures that apply to ships registered outside the U.S. docking at ports in the U.S. The U.S. Coast Guard
has published MTSA regulations that require a security plan for every ship entering the territorial waters of the U.S., provide for identification requirements for ships entering such waters and establish various procedures for the identification of
crew members on such ships. We believe our fleet is in compliance with the requirements imposed upon it by the MTSA and the U.S. Coast Guard regulations. The Transportation Workers Identification Credential is a federal requirement for accessibility
into and onto U.S. ports and U.S.-flagged ships. We are in compliance with this requirement.

Amendments to SOLAS required that ships
constructed in accordance with pre-1974 SOLAS requirements install automatic sprinkler systems by December 31, 2005. Failure to comply with the SOLAS requirements with respect to any ship will, among other things, restrict the operations of
such ship in the U.S. and many other jurisdictions. We are in compliance with these requirements.

IMO adopted an amendment to SOLAS which
requires partial bulkheads on stateroom balconies to be of non-combustible construction. Existing ships are required to comply with this SOLAS amendment by the first statutory survey after July 1, 2008. All of our ships are in compliance with
the SOLAS amendment.

The SOLAS regulation on Long-Range Identification and Tracking entered into force on January 1, 2008. Ships
constructed on or after December 31, 2008 must be fitted with a system that automatically transmits the identity of the ship, the position of the ship (latitude and longitude) and the date and time of the position. We are in compliance with
these requirements.

IMO’s Maritime Safety Committee requires carriage of a Bridge Navigational Watch Alarm System (“BNWAS”)
complying with IMO performance standards. For existing ships over 3,000 Gross Tons, the equipment should be installed in connection with the first survey after July 1, 2012. New ships over 150 Gross Tons and all new passenger ships constructed
after July 1, 2011 shall be equipped with a BNWAS. All of our ships are in compliance with these requirements.

Financial Requirements

The FMC requires evidence of financial responsibility for those offering transportation on passenger ships operating out of U.S. ports to
indemnify passengers in the event of non-performance of the transportation. Accordingly, we are required to maintain a $15.0 million third-party performance guarantee on our behalf in respect of liabilities for non-performance of transportation and
other obligations to passengers. Recent regulations have revised the financial requirements with respect to both death/injury and non-performance coverages to increase the $15.0 million performance guarantee to $22.0 million effective April 2,
2014 and to $30.0 million effective April 2, 2015. Also, we have a legal requirement for us to maintain a security guarantee based on cruise business originated from the United Kingdom and have a bond with the Association of British Travel
Agents currently valued at British Pound Sterling 5.7 million. We also are required to establish financial responsibility by other jurisdictions to meet liability in the event of non-performance of our obligations to passengers from those
jurisdictions.

From time to time, various other regulatory and legislative changes have been or may in the future be proposed that may have
an effect on our operations in the U.S. and the cruise industry in general.







Taxation

Taxation of Operating Income: In General

This discussion is based on the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), existing final and temporary regulations thereunder, and current administrative rulings and court decisions, all as in effect on the date of this filing and all of which are subject to change,
possibly with retroactive effect. Changes in these authorities may cause the tax consequences to vary substantially from the consequences described below. The following discussion does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all of the U.S.
federal income tax considerations applicable to us. Unless exempt from U.S. federal income taxation, a foreign corporation is subject to U.S. federal income tax in respect of any income that is derived from the use of vessels, from the hiring or
leasing of vessels for use on a time, voyage or bareboat charter basis or from the performance of services directly related to those uses, collectively referred to as “shipping income,” to the extent that the shipping income is derived
from sources within the U.S.

For these purposes, shipping income attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both
begin and end, in the U.S., which we refer to as U.S.-source international shipping income, will be considered to be 50% derived from sources within the U.S. The legislative history of the transportation income source rules suggests that a cruise
that begins and ends in a U.S. port, but that calls on one or more foreign ports, will derive U.S.-source income only from the first and last legs of such cruise. However, since there are no U.S. Treasury Regulations or other U.S. Internal Revenue
Service (“IRS”) guidance with respect to these rules, the applicability of the transportation income source rules described above is not free from doubt.

No portion of shipping income attributable to transportation exclusively between non-U.S. ports will be considered to be derived from sources within the U.S. Such shipping income will not be subject to
any U.S. federal income tax. Shipping income attributable to transportation exclusively between U.S. ports will be considered to be 100% derived from U.S. sources.

Unless exempt from tax under Section 883 of the Code, (i) any U.S.-sourced shipping income or any other income that is considered to be effectively connected with the conduct of a U.S. trade or
business (“effectively connected income”) (as discussed below under “—Taxation in Absence of Section 883 Exemption”) would be subject to federal corporate income taxation on a net basis (generally at a 35% rate) and
state and local taxes, and NCLH’s effectively connected earnings and profits may also be subject to an additional branch profits tax of 30% (the “Net Tax Regime”) and (ii) if not considered to be effectively connected income, any
U.S.-source income would be subject to a 4% tax on gross income provided under Section 887 of the Code (the “4% Regime”).

The
U.S.-source portion of our income that is not shipping income is generally subject to the Net Tax Regime. U.S. Treasury Regulations list several items of income which are not considered to be incidental to the international operation of ships and,
to the extent derived from U.S. sources, are subject to U.S. federal income taxes. Income items considered non-incidental to the international operation of ships include income from the sale of single-day cruises, shore excursions, air and other
transportation, and pre-and post-cruise land packages. We believe that substantially all of our income currently derived from the international operation of ships is shipping income.

To the extent funds are legally available, the tax agreement governing the NCL Corporation Units provides that NCLC will make cash distributions, which we refer to as “tax distributions,” to
holders of the NCL Corporation Units (including the Management NCL Corporation Units) if ownership of the NCL Corporation Units gives rise to U.S. taxable income for the holder. The U.S. taxable income attributable to NCLH’s ownership of NCL
Corporation Units may be different from the relative U.S. taxable income attributable to the Management NCL Corporation Units. In that case, tax distributions may be made on a non-pro rata basis with the holders of Management NCL Corporation Units
possibly receiving relative tax distributions greater than the tax distributions received by NCLH. Generally, these tax distributions will be computed based on an estimate of the taxable income, determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes,
allocable to the NCL Corporation Unit holder multiplied by the U.S. federal and state income tax rate applicable to each holder, as determined in the sole discretion of NCLH.

Exemption of Operating Income from U.S. Federal Income Taxation

Under Section 883 of
the Code and the related regulations, a foreign corporation will be exempt from U.S. federal income taxation on its U.S.-source international shipping income if: (a) it is organized in a qualified foreign country, which is one that grants an
“equivalent exemption” from tax to corporations organized in the U.S. in respect of each category of shipping income for which exemption is being claimed under Section 883 of the Code, and to which we refer as the “Country of
Organization Test”; and (b) either: (1) more than 50% of the value of its stock is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by “qualified shareholders,” which includes individuals who are “residents” of a
qualified foreign country, to which we refer as the “50% Ownership Test”; (2) one or more classes of its stock representing, in the aggregate, more than 50% of the combined voting power and value of all classes of its stock are
“primarily and regularly traded on one or more established securities markets” in a qualified foreign country or in the U.S. (and certain exceptions do not apply), to which we refer as the “Publicly Traded Test”; or (3) it
is a “controlled foreign corporation” and it satisfies an ownership test, to which, collectively, we refer as the “CFC Test.” In addition, U.S. Treasury Regulations require a foreign corporation and certain of its direct and
indirect shareholders to satisfy detailed substantiation and reporting requirements.







Bermuda, the jurisdiction where we are incorporated, has been officially recognized by the IRS as a
qualified foreign country that currently grants the requisite equivalent exemption from tax in respect of each category of shipping income we expect to earn in the future. Therefore, NCLH will satisfy the Country of Organization Test and will likely
be exempt from U.S. federal income taxation with respect to our U.S.-source international shipping income if NCLH is able to satisfy any one of the 50% Ownership Test, the Publicly Traded Test or the CFC Test. As discussed further below, as of the
date of this annual report, we expect to satisfy the Publicly Traded Test.

The regulations under Section 883 of the Code provide, in
pertinent part, that a corporation will meet the Publicly Traded Test if one or more classes of stock of a foreign corporation representing, in the aggregate, more than 50% of the combined voting power and value of all classes of stock are
“primarily and regularly traded on one or more established securities markets” in a qualified foreign country or in the U.S. A class of stock will be considered to be “primarily traded” on an established securities market in a
country if the number of shares of such class of stock that are traded during any taxable year on all established securities markets in that country exceeds the number of shares of such stock that are traded during that year on established
securities markets in any other single country.

Under the regulations, a class of stock will be considered to be “regularly traded”
on an established securities market if (a) such class of stock is listed on such market, (b) such class of stock is traded on such market, other than in minimal quantities, on at least 60 days during the taxable year or one sixth of the
days in a short taxable year, and (c) the aggregate number of shares of such class of stock traded on such market during the taxable year is at least 10% of the average number of shares of such class of stock outstanding during such year, or as
appropriately adjusted in the case of a short taxable year.

The regulations provide that the trading frequency and trading volume tests will
be deemed satisfied if a class of stock is traded on an established securities market in the U.S. and is regularly quoted by dealers making a market in such stock. The regulations provide, in pertinent part, that a class of stock will not be
considered to be “regularly traded” on an established securities market for any taxable year in which 50% or more of the outstanding shares of such class of stock are owned on more than half the days during the taxable year by persons who
each own 5% or more of the outstanding shares of such class of stock, to which we refer as the “Five Percent Override Rule.” The “Five Percent Override Rule” will not apply if NCLH can substantiate that the number of NCLH’s
ordinary shares owned for more than half of the number of days in the taxable year (1) directly or indirectly applying attribution rules, by its qualified shareholders, and (2) by its non-5% shareholders, is greater than 50% of its
outstanding ordinary shares.

As of the date of this filing, we expect that we will be eligible to claim the Section 883 tax exemption on
the basis of the Publicly Traded Test. Since NCLH’s ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, which is considered to be an established securities market, NCLH expects that its ordinary shares will be deemed to be
“primarily traded” on an established securities market. Furthermore, we believe NCLH will meet the trading volume requirements described previously because the pertinent regulations provide that trading volume requirements will be deemed
to be met with respect to a class of equity traded on an established securities market in the U.S., where the class of equity is regularly quoted by dealers who regularly and actively make offers, purchases and sales of such equity to unrelated
persons in the ordinary course of business.

As of the date of this filing, NCLH’s direct non-5% shareholders own more than 50% of its
ordinary shares. Based on the foregoing, as of the date of this filing, we believe that NCLH’s ordinary shares will be considered to be “primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market” and that NCLH and each of its
corporate subsidiaries in which NCLH owns more than 50% of the value of the outstanding stock and that is organized in a qualifying foreign country will therefore qualify for the Section 883 tax exemption. However, there are factual
circumstances beyond our control, including changes in the direct and indirect owners of NCLH’s ordinary shares or the status of certain of its qualified shareholders, which could cause NCLH or its subsidiaries to lose the benefit of this tax
exemption. Therefore, we can give no assurance in this regard. Should any of the facts described above cease to be correct or the direct or indirect ownership of NCLH’s ordinary shares change, NCLH and its subsidiaries’ ability to qualify
for the Section 883 tax exemption will be compromised. Also, it should be noted that Section 883 of the Code has been the subject of legislative modifications in past years that have had the effect of limiting its availability to certain
taxpayers, and there can be no assurance that future legislation will not preclude us from obtaining the benefits of Section 883 of the Code.

In addition, because NCLH is relying on the substantial ownership by non-5% shareholders in order to satisfy the regularly traded test, there is the potential that if another shareholder becomes a 5%
shareholder our qualification under the Publicly Traded Test could be jeopardized. If NCLH were to fail to satisfy the Publicly Traded Test, we could be subject to U.S. income tax on income associated with our cruise operations in the U.S.
Therefore, as a precautionary matter, NCLH has provided protections in its bye-laws to reduce the risk of the Five Percent Override Rule applying. In this regard, NCLH’s bye-laws provide that no one person or group of related persons, other
than the Apollo Funds, the TPG Viking Funds and Genting HK, may own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the







attribution provisions of the Code, more than 4.9% of its ordinary shares, whether measured by vote, value or number, unless such ownership is approved by its Board of Directors. In addition, any
person or group of related persons that own 3% or more (or a lower percentage if required by the U.S. Treasury Regulations under the Code) of NCLH’s ordinary shares will be required to meet certain notice requirements as provided for in its
bye-laws. NCLH’s bye-laws generally restrict the transfer of any of its ordinary shares if such transfer would cause NCLH to be subject to U.S. shipping income tax. In general, detailed attribution rules, that treat a shareholder as owning
shares that are owned by certain other persons, are applied in determining whether a person is a 5% shareholder.

For purposes of the 4.9%
limit, a “transfer” includes any sale, transfer, gift, assignment, devise or other disposition, whether voluntary or involuntary, whether of record, constructively or beneficially, and whether by operation of law or otherwise. The 4.9%
limit does not apply to the Apollo Funds, the TPG Viking Funds or Genting HK. These shareholders are permitted to transfer their shares without complying with the limit subject to certain restrictions.



•the amount per share of any distribution made upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and



•in the case of excess shares resulting from a purported transfer, the price per share paid in the transaction that created such excess shares, or, in
the case of excess shares resulting from an event other than a purported transfer, the market price for the excess shares on the date of such event.

At the direction of NCLH’s Board of Directors, the trustee will transfer the excess shares held in trust to a person or persons, including NCLH, whose ownership of such excess shares will not violate
the 4.9% limit or otherwise cause NCLH to become subject to U.S. shipping income tax within 180 days after the later of the transfer or other event that resulted in such excess shares or we become aware of such transfer or event. If such a transfer
is made, the interest of the charitable beneficiary will terminate, the designation of such shares as excess shares will cease and the purported holder of the excess shares will receive the payment described below. The purported transferee or holder
of the excess shares will receive a payment that reflects a price per share for such excess shares equal to the lesser of:



•the price per share received by the trustee, and



•the price per share such purported transferee or holder paid in the purported transfer that resulted in the excess shares, or, if the purported
transferee or holder did not give value for such excess shares, through a gift, devise or other event, a price per share equal to the market price on the date of the purported transfer or other event that resulted in the excess shares.

A purported transferee or holder of the excess shares will not be permitted to receive an amount that reflects any
appreciation in the excess shares during the period that such excess shares were outstanding. Any amount received in excess of the amount permitted to be received by the purported transferee or holder of the excess shares must be turned over to the
charitable beneficiary of the trust. If the foregoing restrictions are determined to be void or invalid by virtue of any legal decision, statute, rule or regulation, then the intended transferee or holder of any excess shares may be deemed, at
NCLH’s option, to have acted as an agent on its behalf in acquiring or holding such excess shares and to hold such excess shares on NCLH’s behalf.







NCLH has the right to purchase any excess shares held by the trust for a period of 90 days from the later
of:



•the date the transfer or other event resulting in excess shares has occurred, and



•the date NCLH’s Board of Directors determines in good faith that a transfer or other event resulting in excess shares has occurred.

The price per excess share to be paid by NCLH will be equal to the lesser of:



•the price per share paid in the transaction that created such excess shares, or, in the case of certain other events, the market price per share for
the excess shares on the date of such event, or



•the lowest market price for the excess shares at any time after their designation as excess shares and prior to the date NCLH accepts such offer.

These provisions in NCLH’s bye-laws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control
or other transaction in which NCLH’s shareholders might receive a premium for their ordinary shares over the then-prevailing market price or which such holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interest. The Board of Directors may
determine, in its sole discretion, to terminate the 4.9% limit and the transfer restrictions of these provisions. While both the mandatory offer protection and 4.9% protection remain in place, no third party other than the Apollo Funds, the TPG
Viking Funds or Genting HK will be able to acquire control of NCLH.

Taxation in Absence of Section 883 Exemption

If NCLH does not qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code as described above, (i) any U.S.-sourced shipping income or any other
income that is effectively connected income (as described below) would be subject to the Net Tax Regime and (ii) if not considered to be effectively connected income, any U.S.-source income would be subject to the 4% Regime. NCLH’s
U.S.-source international shipping income would be considered effectively connected income only if it has, or is considered to have, a fixed place of business in the U.S. involved in the earning of U.S.-source international shipping income, and
substantially all of its U.S.-source international shipping income is attributable to regularly scheduled transportation, such as the operation of a vessel that follows a published schedule with repeated sailings at regular intervals between the
same points for voyages that begin or end in the U.S. This would likely be the case.

U.S. Taxation of Gain on Sale of Vessels

Provided we and our subsidiaries qualify for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code in respect of our shipping income, gain
from the sale of a vessel likewise should generally be exempt from tax under Section 883 of the Code. If, however, NCLH’s gain does not, for whatever reason, qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code, then such gain could be
subject to either the Net Tax Regime or 4% Regime (determined under rules different from those discussed above).

Certain State, Local and
Non-U.S. Tax Matters

We may be subject to state, local and non-U.S. income or non-income taxes in various jurisdictions, including those
in which we transact business, own property or reside. We may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. Our state, local or non-U.S. tax treatment may not conform to the U.S. federal income tax treatment discussed above.
We may be required to pay non-U.S. taxes on dispositions of foreign property or operations involving foreign property may give rise to non-U.S. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial.

Changes in Tax Laws

The various tax
regimes to which we are currently subject result in a relatively low effective tax rate on our world-wide income. These tax regimes, however, are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. For example, legislation has been proposed in the
past that would eliminate the benefits of the exemption from U.S. federal income tax under Section 883 of the Code and subject all or a portion of our shipping income to taxation in the United States. Moreover, we may become subject to new tax
regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded by current or future law.

U.S. Federal Income
Taxation—U.S.-flagged Operation

Income derived from our U.S.-flagged operation generally will be subject to U.S. federal and state
income taxation at combined graduated rates of approximately 39%, after an allowance for deductions. In connection with implementation of a global tax platform during 2013, we expect current and future income derived in respect of this operation to
be exempt from branch profits and dividend withholding taxes under the US – UK Income Tax Treaty and expect to incur a U.S. tax liability of approximately $22.6 million, after considering net operating losses (“NOLs”) obtained from
our shareholders (discussed below in U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Net Operating Losses).







U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Net Operating Losses

As a result of the corporate reorganization, described above under “Item 1. Business—History and Development of the Company,” we obtained
certain NOLs of our corporate shareholders. Section 382 of the Code places a limitation on the amount of taxable income that can be offset by NOL carryforwards after a change in control (generally greater than 50% change in ownership) of a loss
corporation. Generally, after a change in control, a loss corporation cannot deduct NOL carryforwards in excess of the Section 382 limitation. Due to these change in ownership provisions, utilization of our NOL carryforwards to offset future
taxable income may be subject to an annual limitation. We anticipate that use of our NOL carryforwards will not be significantly limited as a result of Section 382 of the Code and expect some or all of these loss carryforwards to be utilized
during 2013.

Available Information

We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the
SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public at the SEC’s website at
http://www.sec.gov.

We also maintain an Internet site at http://www.investor.ncl.com. We will, as soon as reasonably practicable after
the electronic filing of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports if applicable, make available such reports free of charge on our website.Our website and the
information contained therein or connected thereto are not incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K.

Executive Officers

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers and key employees as of February 14, 2014.



NameAgePositionKevin M. Sheehan59President and Chief Executive OfficerWendy A. Beck49Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerAndrew Stuart50Executive Vice President, Global Sales and Passenger ServicesDaniel S. Farkas45Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant SecretaryMaria Miller57Senior Vice President, MarketingRobert Becker53Senior Vice President, Consumer Research

All the executive officers and key employees listed above hold their offices at the pleasure of our Board of Directors,
subject to rights under any applicable employment agreements. There are no family relationships between or among any directors and executive officers.

Kevin M. Sheehanhas served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since August 2010. He has served as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company since November 2008 and as
President since August 2010 and previously from August 2008 through March 2009. Mr. Sheehan also served as Chief Financial Officer of the Company from November 2007 through September 2010. Prior to joining us, he spent two and a half years
consulting to private equity firms including Cerberus, Fortress and Clayton Dubilier & Rice and lecturing full time at Adelphi University in New York as Distinguished Visiting Professor of Accounting, Finance and Economics. Prior to that,
Mr. Sheehan served a nine-year career with Cendant as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of their Vehicle Services Division including responsibility for Avis Rent A Car, Budget Rent A Car, Budget Truck, PHH Fleet Management and Wright
Express. Prior to that he was Cendant’s Chief Financial Officer and initially served as President and Chief Financial Officer of Avis Group. He is a graduate of Hunter College and the New York University Graduate School of Business.
Mr. Sheehan serves on the board of directors of New Media Investment Group Inc. (NASDAQ: “NEWM$”), Dave and Buster’s and XOJET, Inc. He also serves as Chairman of the Florida Caribbean Cruise Association’s Executive
Committee and on the Executive Committee of the Cruise Line International Association.

Wendy A. Beckhas served as the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer since September 2010. Prior to joining us, Ms. Beck served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Domino’s Pizza, Inc. from May 2008 to August 2010. Prior to that she served as
Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Whataburger Restaurants, LP from May 2004 through April 2008 and served as their Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer from August 2001 through April 2004. Ms. Beck was also
employed at Checkers Drive-In Restaurants, Inc. from 1993 through July 2001, serving as their Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from 2000 through July 2001. Ms. Beck currently sits on the board of directors and audit
committee for Spartan Stores, Inc. (NASDAQ: SPTN). Ms. Beck holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting from the University of South Florida and is a Certified Public Accountant.







Andrew Stuarthas served as Executive Vice President, Global Sales and Passenger Services of the
Company since November 2008. From April 2008 through September 2008, he held the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Product Officer. From September 2003 through March 2008, he served as Executive Vice President of Marketing, Sales and
Passenger Services. Prior to that, he was our Senior Vice President of Passenger Services as well as Vice President of Sales Planning. He joined us in August 1988 in our London office holding various Sales and Marketing positions before relocating
to our headquarters in Miami. Mr. Stuart earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Catering Administration from Bournemouth University, United Kingdom.

Daniel S. Farkashas served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of the Company since February 2008 and as Assistant Secretary of the Company since 2013. Since Mr. Farkas joined us in
January 2004, he has held the positions of Secretary from 2010 to 2013, Vice President and Assistant General Counsel from 2005 to 2008, and Assistant General Counsel from 2004 to 2005. Mr. Farkas was formerly a partner in the Miami offices of
the law firm Mase and Gassenheimer specializing in maritime litigation. Before that he was an Assistant State Attorney for the Eleventh Judicial Circuit in and for Miami-Dade County, Florida. Mr. Farkas currently serves on the board of
directors of the Cruise Industry Charitable Foundation. Mr. Farkas earned a Bachelor of Arts degree Cum Laude with honors in English and American Literature from Brandeis University and a Juris Doctorate degree from the University of Miami.

Maria Millerhas served as Senior Vice President, Marketing since June 2009. Prior to joining us, Ms. Miller served as Senior
Vice President, Marketing for Dave & Buster’s Inc., from May 2003 through May 2009. Before that she was Principal and Co-Founder of the marketing consulting firm Sage Partners, LLC from February 2002 through April 2003 and served as
Vice President of Marketing for Elance from July 2000 through September 2001. Ms. Miller also served as Senior Vice President, Marketing for Avis Group Holdings, Inc., from January 1998 through July 2000 and held several marketing positions at
American Express Company including Vice President, Platinum Card Operations from April 1987 through October 1995. Ms. Miller holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration from New York University and an MBA from Stanford
University.

Robert Beckerhas served as Senior Vice President, Consumer Research of the Company since March 2008. Prior to joining us,
Mr. Becker held the same position at Carnival Cruise Lines from November 1999 through February 2008. Before that Mr. Becker served as Director of Consumer Research/National Accounts at Renaissance Cruise Lines from November 1996 through
October 1999 and General Manager of R Travel from August 1994 through September 1996. Mr. Becker holds a Bachelor of Arts from St. Bonaventure University and an MBA from Florida Atlantic University.

