Item 1. Business



History and Development of the Company



NCLH is a diversified cruise operator of leading global cruise
lines spanning market segments from contemporary to luxury under the Norwegian, Oceania and Regent brands. These brands operate
21 ships with approximately 40,000 Berths visiting approximately 420 worldwide destinations. The Company’s brands will introduce
six additional ships through 2019 increasing the total Berths to approximately 58,000. Norwegian is the innovator in cruise
travel with a history of breaking the boundaries of traditional cruising, most notably with the introduction of “Freestyle
Cruising,” which revolutionized the industry by giving guests more freedom and flexibility on the most contemporary ships
at sea. Oceania is the market leader in the upper-premium cruise segment featuring the finest cuisine at sea, elegant accommodations,
impeccable service and destination-driven itineraries. Regent is the market leader in the luxury cruise segment with all-suite
accommodations, highly personalized service and the industry’s most inclusive luxury experience featuring round-trip air,
fine wines and spirits and unlimited shore excursions among its numerous included amenities.



Norwegian commenced operations from Miami in 1966. In February 2000,
Genting HK acquired control of and subsequently became the sole owner of the Norwegian operations.



In January 2008, the Apollo Funds acquired 50% of the outstanding
ordinary share capital of NCLC. As part of this investment, the Apollo Funds assumed control of NCLC’s Board of Directors.
Also, in January 2008, the TPG Viking Funds acquired, in the aggregate, 12.5% of NCLC’s outstanding share capital from the
Apollo Funds.



On January 24, 2013, NCLH completed its IPO, pursuant to which it
sold 27,058,824 ordinary shares for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated expenses,
of approximately $473.9 million.



In August 2013, December 2013 and March 2014, the Sponsors completed
the Secondary Equity Offerings.



In November 2014, we completed the Acquisition of Prestige. We believe
that the combination of Norwegian and Prestige creates a diversified cruise operating company with a rich product portfolio and
strong market presence. Prestige holds a leading position in the Upscale Segment of the cruise industry. Prestige’s well-known
Oceania and Regent brands focus on providing guests with vacation experiences onboard eight mid-size cruise ships that are characterized
by high-quality service, gourmet cuisine, luxurious accommodations and itineraries to worldwide destinations.



As a result of the aforementioned transactions, the Sponsors owned
56.0% of NCLH’s ordinary shares as of December 31, 2014.



Corporate Reorganization



In February 2011, NCLH, a Bermuda limited company, was formed with
the issuance to the Sponsors of, in aggregate, 10,000 ordinary shares, with a par value of $.001 per share. In connection with
the consummation of the IPO, the Sponsors’ ordinary shares in NCLC were exchanged for the ordinary shares of NCLH, and NCLH
became the owner of 100% of the ordinary shares and parent company of NCLC (the “Corporate Reorganization”). At the
same time, NCLH contributed $460.0 million to NCLC and the historical financial statements of NCLC became those of NCLH. The Corporate
Reorganization was effected solely for the purpose of reorganizing our corporate structure. NCLH had not, prior to the completion
of the Corporate Reorganization, conducted any activities other than those incidental to its formation and to prepare for the Corporate
Reorganization and IPO.



NCLC was treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes,
and the terms of the partnership (including the economic rights with respect thereto) were set forth in an amended and restated
tax agreement for NCLC. Economic interests in NCLC were represented by the partnership interests established under the tax agreement,
which we refer to as “NCL Corporation Units.”



In connection with the Corporate Reorganization, NCLC’s outstanding
profits interests granted under the profits sharing agreement to management (or former management) of NCLC were exchanged for an
economically equivalent number of NCL Corporation Units. We refer to the NCL Corporation Units exchanged for profits interests
granted under the profits sharing agreement as Management NCL Corporation Units. As a result of the Corporate Reorganization, the
Management NCL Corporation Units created a non-controlling interest within NCLH. The Management NCL Corporation Units received
upon the exchange of outstanding profits interests were subject to the same time-based vesting requirements and performance-based
vesting requirements applicable to the profits interests for which they were exchanged. The Management NCL Corporation Units issued
in exchange for the profits interests represented a 2.7% economic interest in NCLC as of the consummation of the IPO.



Subject to certain procedures and restrictions (including the vesting
schedules applicable to the Management NCL Corporation Units and any applicable legal and contractual restrictions), each holder
of Management NCL Corporation Units had the right to cause NCLC and NCLH to exchange the holder’s Management NCL Corporation
Units for ordinary shares of NCLH at an exchange rate equal to one ordinary share for every Management NCL Corporation Unit (or,
at NCLC’s election, a cash payment equal to the value of the exchanged Management NCL Corporation Units), subject to customary
adjustments for stock splits, subdivisions, combinations







and similar extraordinary events. Any non-pro rata tax distributions
made to a Management NCL Corporation Unit holder would have reduced the amount of NCLH’s ordinary shares (or cash) that the
holder would have otherwise received upon exchange. On August 19, 2013, NCLH filed a registration statement with the SEC to
register on a continuous basis the issuance of the ordinary shares received by the holders of Management NCL Corporation Units
who elected to exchange.



When a holder of a Management NCL Corporation Unit exchanged such
unit for one of NCLH’s ordinary shares (or a cash payment equal to the value of one of such ordinary shares), the relative
economic interests of the exchanging NCL Corporation Unit holder and the holders of ordinary shares of NCLH were not altered. As
a result of the Corporate Reorganization, a non-controlling interest was created within NCLH and NCLH’s financial statements
and financial results differ from NCLC’s in certain respects.



In the fourth quarter of 2014, all Management NCL Corporation Units
were exchanged for NCLH ordinary shares and restricted shares. NCLH became the sole member and 100% owner of the economic interests
in NCLC and the non-controlling interest no longer exists. Accordingly, NCLC is now treated as a disregarded entity for U.S. federal
income tax purposes. No new NCLC profits interests or Management NCL Corporation Units will be issued; however, NCLH has granted,
and expects to continue to grant, options to acquire its ordinary shares to our management team under its long-term incentive plan.



Our Sponsors



Apollo



Apollo Global Management, LLC, founded in 1990, is a leading global
alternative investment manager with offices in New York, Los Angeles, Houston, Toronto, London, Frankfurt, Luxembourg, Singapore,
Hong Kong and Mumbai. As of December 31, 2014, Apollo had assets under management of $160.0 billion invested in its private
equity, credit and real estate businesses.



Investment funds managed by Apollo also have current and past investments
in other travel and leisure companies, including Caesars Entertainment, Great Wolf Resorts, Vail Resorts, AMC Entertainment, Wyndham
International and other hotel properties. Apollo had held a controlling interest in Prestige since 2007, which was transferred
to NCLH in connection with the Acquisition of Prestige.



TPG



TPG is a leading global private investment firm founded in 1992
with over $65 billion of assets under management as of December 31, 2014 and offices in San Francisco, Fort Worth, Austin,
Beijing, Dallas, Hong Kong, Houston, London, Luxembourg, Melbourne, Moscow, Mumbai, New York, São Paulo, Shanghai, Singapore,
Tokyo and Toronto. TPG has extensive experience with global public and private investments executed through leveraged buyouts,
recapitalizations, spinouts, growth investments, joint ventures and restructurings. The firm’s investments span a variety
of industries including healthcare, energy, industrials, consumer/retail, technology, media & communications, software, financial
services, travel, entertainment and real estate.



Genting HK



Genting HK was founded in 1993 and through its subsidiary, Star
Cruises Asia Holding Ltd., operates a leading cruise line in the Asia Pacific region. Its headquarters are located in Hong Kong
and it is represented in more than 20 locations worldwide, with offices and representatives in Asia, Australia, Europe and the
U.S. Genting HK currently has a fleet of six ships, which offer various cruise itineraries in the Asia Pacific region.



Additional Information



We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda. Our registered offices
are located at Cumberland House, 9th Floor, 1 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 11, Bermuda. Our principal executive offices are located
at 7665 Corporate Center Drive, Miami, Florida 33126. Our telephone number is (305) 436-4000. Our website is located at www.nclhltdinvestor.com.
The information that appears on our websites is not part of, and is not incorporated by reference into this annual report or any
other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. Daniel S. Farkas, the Company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel,
is our agent for service of process at our principal executive offices.



Our Industry and Competition



The various cruise lines that make up the global cruise vacation
industry have historically been segmented by product offering and service quality into “contemporary,” “premium,”
and “luxury” segments. The contemporary segment generally includes cruises on larger ships that last seven days or
less, provide a casual ambiance and are less expensive on average than the premium or luxury segment cruises. The premium segment
is generally characterized by cruises that last from seven to 14 nights with a higher quality product offering than the contemporary
segment, appealing to a more affluent demographic. The luxury segment generally offers the highest level of service and quality,
with longer cruises on the smallest ships. We believe that Oceania offers an “upper-premium” cruise experience, therefore,
we categorize it in an “upper-premium” segment.







In classifying Norwegian’s competitors within the Major North
American Cruise Brands, the contemporary segment has historically included Carnival Corporation and Royal Caribbean Cruises. The
premium segment has historically included Celebrity Cruises, Holland America and Princess Cruises. We believe that Norwegian straddles
the contemporary and premium segments and offers a combination of value and leisure services to cruise guests.



Oceania’s and Regent’s competition typically includes
Azamara Club Cruises (owned by Royal Caribbean Cruises) in the upper premium segment and Crystal Cruises, Silversea Cruises and
Seabourn Cruise Line (owned by Carnival Corporation) in the luxury segment. Collectively, these operators make up Prestige’s
Upscale Segment competition. Historically, people 55 years of age and older have had the highest disposable income levels and the
most leisure time, making them prime candidates for Upscale Segment cruising given the longer itineraries and higher per diems
of cruises in this category.



Our Company



Norwegian Business Overview



Norwegian offers a wide variety of cruises ranging in length from
one day to three weeks. Each of Norwegian’s 13 modern ships has been purpose-built to consistently deliver the “Freestyle
Cruising” product offering, which we believe provides Norwegian with a competitive advantage by differentiating it from other
cruise line offerings. By focusing on “Freestyle Cruising,” Norwegian has been able to achieve higher onboard spend
levels, greater guest loyalty and the ability to attract a more diverse clientele. “Freestyle Cruising” offers flexibility
and choice to our guests who prefer to dine when they want, with whomever they want and without having to dress formally.



During 2014, Norwegian’s ships docked at 126 ports worldwide,
with itineraries originating from 19 ports of which 13 are in North America. In line with Norwegian’s strategy of innovation,
many of these North American ports are part of the “Homeland Cruising” program in which it has homeports that are close
to major population centers, such as New York, Boston and Miami. This reduces the need for vacationers to fly to distant ports
to embark on a cruise and helps reduce Norwegian guests’ overall vacation cost. Norwegian offers a wide selection of exotic
itineraries outside of the traditional cruising markets of the Caribbean and Mexico, including cruises in Europe (the Mediterranean
and the Baltic), Bermuda, Alaska, and the industry’s only entirely inter-island itinerary in Hawaii with Norwegian’s
U.S.-flagged ship, Pride of America. Norwegian’s Hawaii itinerary is unparalleled in the cruise industry, as all other ships
from competing cruise lines are registered outside the U.S. and are required to dock at a distant foreign port when providing their
guests with a Hawaii-based cruise itinerary.



By providing such a distinctive experience and an appealing combination
of value and service, Norwegian straddles both the contemporary and premium segments. Norwegian has been recognized for its achievements
as the recipient of multiple honorary awards, mainly consisting of reviews tabulated from the readers of travel periodicals such
as Travel Weekly, Condé Nast Traveler, and Travel + Leisure as well as being recognized as “Europe’s Leading
Cruise Line” seven years in a row, and as both “Caribbean’s Leading Cruise Line” and “World’s
Leading Large Ship Cruise Line” by the World Travel Awards. Norwegian Breakaway, which was launched in 2013, was named “Best
New Ship” by the editors of Cruise Critic and “Best Rookie Cruise Ship” by the readers of Travel Weekly. Norwegian
Getaway, which was launched in January 2014, was Bon Voyage Magazine’s Editor’s Choice for “Best New Ship,”
Travel Weekly Readers’ Choice “Best New Ship” in 2014 and TravAlliance Travvy Awards “Best Cruise Ship, Contemporary” in 2015.



We have continued to add new ships to our fleet. Orders have been
placed with Meyer Werft for four Breakaway Plus Class Ships for delivery in the fall of 2015, spring of 2017, spring of
2018 and fall of 2019. These ships will be the largest in Norwegian’s fleet at approximately 164,600 Gross Tons and up to
4,200 Berths. Each will be similar in design and innovation to the Breakaway Class Ships. The combined contract price of these
four ships is approximately €3.0 billion, or $3.6 billion based on the euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate as of December 31,
2014. Norwegian has export credit financing in place that provides financing for 80% of each of the ships’ contract prices.



Prestige Business Overview



Prestige is a leading operator in the Upscale Segment of the cruise
industry with two cruise brands, Oceania and Regent. These two brands operate a total of eight ships with over 6,400 Berths, accounting
for approximately 46% of the capacity measured by Berths of the Upscale Segment. Most suites and staterooms in Prestige’s
fleet feature a private balcony which caters to customers in the Upscale Segment. These customers are typically affluent, well-traveled
retirees who are high repeat guests and book reservations far in advance. We believe Prestige’s fleet has some of the highest
space-to-guest and crew-to-passenger ratios in the industry, providing our guests with luxurious accommodations and individually-tailored
service levels. We believe Prestige has a highly attractive financial profile, with industry-leading Net Yields and high visibility
to future bookings.



Oceania operates a fleet of five mid-size ships, providing our
customers with an upscale and sophisticated experience including personalized service and elegant accommodations. Oceania offers
destination-oriented cruises to approximately 330 ports around the globe, and includes two 1,250 Berth O-Class ships, which were
added in 2011 and 2012 and three 684 Berth R-Class ships. Oceania is ranked as one of the world’s best cruise lines by Condé
Nast Traveler, Travel + Leisure, and Cruise Critic. Oceania ships received “Best Dining,” “Best Public Rooms”
and “Best Cabins” from Cruise Critic Cruisers’ Choice Awards in 2014. In November 2014, we purchased a ship
from a third party to join the Oceania fleet which will be named Sirena. After its current Charter ends in March 2016, we will
extensively refurbish the ship to Oceania standards and it will be a sister ship to the R-class ships. The third party provided
financing for the contract price.









Regent offers a luxury all-inclusive cruise vacation experience,
including free air transportation, a pre-cruise hotel night stay, premium wines and top shelf liquors, gratuities and unlimited
shore excursions. The brand operates three award-winning, all-suite ships, totaling 1,890 Berths that include imaginative itineraries
to approximately 300 ports worldwide. The Regent brand focuses on providing the highest level of personal service, inviting shore
excursions, world-class accommodation and top-rated cuisine. During 2015, Regent won the “Best Cruise Ship, Luxury”
award, for Seven Seas Mariner and the “Best Cruise Line, Luxury” award from the TravAlliance Travvy Awards. Regent
also won the 2014 National Association of Career Travel Agents “Luxury Cruise Line” of the year.



In July 2013, Regent entered into a definitive contract with
Italy’s Fincantieri shipyard to build the luxury cruise ship, Seven Seas Explorer. The contract price of this ship will be
approximately €343.0 million (approximately $415.0 million based on the euro/U.S. dollar exchange rate as of December 31,
2014). We have export credit financing in place that provides financing for 80% of the ship’s contract price. Seven Seas
Explorer is expected to be delivered in the summer of 2016.



Our Competitive Strengths



We believe that the following business strengths will enable us
to execute our strategy:



Diversified Cruise Operator with High-Quality Product Offerings



We believe the complementary fleets of Norwegian and Prestige provide
a diversified portfolio of cruise products that represent all significant segments of the cruise industry. The Norwegian brand
caters to the contemporary and premium segments with modern, state-of-the-art ships, amenities, onboard experiences and our “Freestyle
Cruising” offering. Oceania caters to the upper premium segment, while Regent caters to the luxury segment of the cruise
industry. These complementary product offerings, along with the strengths and skill sets of personnel from each of the brands,
provide numerous opportunities for cross-selling and cross-brand collaboration.



Norwegian’s Modern Fleet.With a
weighted-average age of 8.1 years as of December 31, 2014 and no ships built before 1998, Norwegian has the most modern fleet among
the Major North American Cruise Brands, which we believe allows us to offer a high-quality passenger experience with a significant
level of consistency across the entire fleet. Norwegian continues to invest in the brand through our $250 million Norwegian NEXT
program, a set of new enhancements, experiences and transformations aimed at elevating the guest experience, which include new
restaurants and menus, a broader range of entertainment options and an increased focus on integrating technology and innovation
into the guest experience.



Ship(1)YearDeliveredPrimary
    Areas of OperationNorwegian Getaway2014CaribbeanNorwegian Breakaway2013Bermuda, CaribbeanNorwegian Epic2010EuropeNorwegian Gem2007Bahamas, Bermuda, Caribbean, Canada, New EnglandNorwegian Jade2006EuropeNorwegian Pearl2006Alaska, Bahamas, Caribbean, Pacific Coastal, Panama CanalNorwegian Jewel2005Alaska, Bahamas, Caribbean, Pacific Coastal, Panama CanalPride of America2005HawaiiNorwegian Dawn2002Bermuda, Caribbean, Canada, New EnglandNorwegian Star2001Bermuda, Caribbean, EuropeNorwegian Sun2001Caribbean, AlaskaNorwegian Sky1999BahamasNorwegian Spirit1998Caribbean, Europe







(1) The table does not include the four Breakaway Plus Class Ships.



Prestige’s Classic Fleet.Oceania
operates five ships—three R-Class and two O-Class. The R-Class ships are highly-rated five-star ships featuring country club
style accommodations. The O-Class ships feature private balconies in 95% of staterooms. Regent currently operates three six-star
luxury cruise ships featuring world-class accommodations and amenities. Prestige has invested approximately $164 million on ship
refurbishments and enhancements since 2012 as part of its ongoing revitalization program.







Ship(1)YearDeliveredPrimary
    Areas of OperationOceania Riviera2012Caribbean, Mediterranean, Black SeaOceania Marina2011Pacific Coastal, South America, Baltic, MediterraneanOceania Nautica2000Asia, Africa, Mediterranean, BalticOceania Regatta1998Caribbean, Panama Canal, New England, South America, AlaskaOceania Insignia1998Mediterranean, Black Sea, Baltic, CaribbeanSeven Seas Voyager2003Asia, Africa, Baltic, MediterraneanSeven Seas Mariner2001South America, Mediterranean, Black Sea, Panama CanalSeven Seas Navigator1999Caribbean, Panama Canal, Alaska, New England







(1) The table does not include the Seven Seas Explorer or Sirena.



Rich Stateroom Mix.Both the Norwegian and
Prestige fleets offer an attractive mix of staterooms, suites and villas relative to their competitors. As of December 31, 2014,
52% of Norwegian’s staterooms had private balconies representing a higher mix of outside balcony staterooms than any other
contemporary brand. Norwegian’s guest accommodations include the groundbreaking Studio staterooms designed for solo travelers
and centered upon the Studio Lounge, a private two-story lounge for Studio guests. In addition, seven of Norwegian’s ships
offer The Haven, with suites of up to 932 square feet each. The Haven includes two decks of suites, a private pool with multiple
hot tubs and sundecks, a private fitness center and steam rooms, fine dining in a private restaurant, casual outdoor dining and
24-hour concierge service. Guests staying in The Haven are provided with personal butler service. Six of Norwegian’s ships
also offer luxury garden suites of up to 6,694 square feet, making them the largest accommodations at sea. Our Breakaway Plus Class
Ships will feature an expanded Studio area from the 59 staterooms on our Breakaway Class Ships to 82 staterooms and the Haven will
be expanded with a total of 55 suites.



Prestige’s ships offer large and luxurious accommodations
with 87% of suites and staterooms featuring private balconies. Two of Regent’s ships, Seven Seas Voyager and Seven Seas Mariner,
feature all-suite, all-balcony accommodations. Regent’s newbuild, Seven Seas Explorer, will also feature all-suite, all-balcony
accommodations including sophisticated designer suites ranging from 300 to 3,875 square feet with industry leading space and crew-to-guest
ratios.



High-Quality Service.Both the Norwegian
and Prestige brands offer a high level of onboard service. The Prestige brands are known for their quality of service, including
some of the highest crew-to-guest ratios in the industry and a staff trained to deliver personalized and attentive service in a
country club, casual setting. In Travel + Leisure’s World’s Best Service 2013 honors, Regent and Oceania had the second
and fifth ranked ships, respectively, in “Top Cruises: Large Ships.” Norwegian continues to enhance the level of service
on ships through the Norwegian Platinum Standards program. This program introduces specific standards emphasizing dedicated service,
consistency in execution, and overall guest satisfaction which we believe will promote customer loyalty. We believe the Acquisition
of Prestige allows for collaboration among the Norwegian, Oceania and Regent brands which will result in an enhanced guest experience
across all brands.



Diverse Selection of Premium Itineraries.The
combination of Norwegian and Prestige further diversifies our already broad range of premium itineraries. Norwegian’s existing
mix of destinations is more consistent with the brands in the premium segment, and these itineraries typically attract higher Net
Yields than Caribbean and Mexico sailings. Prestige ships have a worldwide deployment, visiting approximately 350 ports each year,
including destinations such as Scandinavia, Russia, the Mediterranean, the Greek Isles, Alaska, Canada and New England, Asia, Tahiti
and the South Pacific, Australia and New Zealand, Africa, India, South America, the Panama Canal, and the Caribbean. The Company’s
full year 2014 deployment outside the Caribbean increased to 62% as compared to 51% for Norwegian on a Norwegian Stand-alone basis.



Established Brand Recognition



Over 91% of cruisers are aware of the Norwegian brand which is known
for freedom, flexibility and choice—highly valued benefits for Norwegian’s target audience within the cruise vacation
market.



The Oceania and Regent brands are well established in the upper
premium and luxury segments of the cruise industry, respectively, for offering the highest level of luxury and service to customers.



Loyal and Repeat Customer Base



The Norwegian, Oceania and Regent brands each have loyal and repeat
customer bases. Norwegian achieves high-quality feedback scores from guests in the areas of overall service, physical ship attributes,
onboard products and services, food and beverage, entertainment and land-based excursions. In 2014, approximately 59% of Prestige’s
total guests responded to Prestige’s customer satisfaction survey, of which 97% of respondents reported that their cruise
experience “met or exceeded” their expectations, and 93% reported they will “likely” return.







Strong Cash Flow



We believe our business model will generate a significant amount
of cash flow with high revenue visibility at the Norwegian, Oceania and Regent brands. All three brands afford the ability to pre-sell
tickets and receive customer deposits with long lead times ahead of sailing. The cash flow impact of newbuild capital expenditures
is mitigated as we have export credit financing in place for all newbuild ships to fund approximately 80% of the contract price
of each ship.



Highly Experienced Management Team



Our senior management team is comprised of executives with extensive
experience in the cruise, travel, leisure and hospitality-related industries. Frank J. Del Rio is our President and Chief Executive
Officer. Mr. Del Rio founded Oceania in October 2002 and played a vital role in the development of Renaissance Cruises from 1993
to April 2001. Andrew Madsen is our President and Chief Operating Officer of our Norwegian brand. Prior to joining the Company,
Mr. Madsen served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Darden Restaurants, Inc. for over 8 years. Prior to that, he served
in various executive positions. Jason M. Montague is our President and Chief Operating Officer for the Regent and Oceania brands.
He was instrumental in launching Oceania in 2002 and is widely regarded as one of the co-founders. Prior to NCLH’s Acquisition
of Prestige, Mr. Montague served as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Prestige from September 2010 until
NCLH’s Acquisition of Prestige in November 2014. For more on our senior management, see “Executive Officers”
below.



Strong Sponsors with Extensive Industry Expertise



Our Sponsors and their affiliates have extensive experience investing
in the cruise, leisure and travel-related industries. We believe that the synergies and purchasing power obtained through these
affiliates have resulted in better price negotiations for us and our affiliates for selected supplies and services.



Our Business Strategies



We seek to attract vacationers with our products and services and
by creating differentiated itineraries in new markets through additional and existing modern and classic ships with the aim of
delivering a better, value-added vacation experience to our guests relative to other vacation alternatives. Our business strategies
include the following:



Enhance Product Offerings and Guest Experience



Norwegian’s ships offer up to 28 dining options, a diverse
range of accommodations and what we believe is the widest array of entertainment at sea. Norwegian has completed more than $33
million of renovations to our private island, Great Stirrup Cay, which includes a new marina, dining and bar facility, as well
as private cabanas and new activities. Norwegian is also enhancing the guest experience with our Norwegian NEXT program which includes
new enhancements and transformations to our product offering. In 2013, Norwegian purchased a future cruise destination in Belize
which is expected to be completed in the fall of 2015.



Prestige offers worldwide itineraries to approximately 350 ports
each year, allowing the brands to meet customers’ demands for a global and differentiated travel experience. We believe that
Prestige’s destination-focused worldwide itineraries of varying lengths, augmented by exciting shore excursions, other land
based programs and diverse onboard enrichment programs, differentiate the Oceania and Regent brands from Prestige’s competitors.
Prestige’s award-winning onboard dining is a central highlight of its cruise experience, with multiple open seating dining
venues where guests may dine when, where and with whom they wish.



Maximize Net Yields



Norwegian and Prestige use a strategy called base-loading to fill
their capacity by booking guests as early before sailing as possible by utilizing certain sales and marketing tactics to generate
business with longer booking windows to maximize passenger ticket revenue. Base-loading allows us to fill ships earlier and avoid
discounting close to sailing dates in order to achieve targeted Occupancy Percentages.



Prestige’s differentiated price enhancing revenue management
strategy encourages customers to book early to obtain the most attractive value offering. When new itineraries are launched, Prestige
clearly articulates to potential customers and travel agents that prices are subject to increase as the cruise date approaches,
as well as the specific dates on which those price increases may occur. Prestige uses a three-prong marketing strategy to maximize
revenue from each customer by (i) keeping travel agents engaged and informed, (ii) using inbound and out-bound sales call programs
to target high-potential customers and (iii) executing targeted and high-frequency marketing campaigns to communicate a message
with Prestige’s cruise offerings.



Norwegian focuses on growing revenue through various initiatives
aimed at increasing ticket prices and Occupancy Percentages as well as onboard spending to drive higher overall Net Yields. Norwegian’s
specific base-loading initiatives include:



Casino Player Strategy.As part
of this strategy, Norwegian has non-exclusive arrangements with over 100 casino partners worldwide including Caesars Entertainment,
whereby loyal gaming guests are offered cruise reward certificates redeemable







for cruises on Norwegian ships. Through property sponsored
events and joint marketing programs, Norwegian has the opportunity to market cruises to Caesars Entertainment’s guests. These
arrangements with casino partners have the dual benefit of filling open inventory and reaching guests that we expect to generate
above average onboard revenue through the casino and other onboard spending.



Strategic Relationships.Norwegian
has developed strategic relationships with travel agencies and international tour operators who commit to purchasing a certain
level of inventory with long lead times.



Meetings, Incentives and Charters.Norwegian
increased the focus on the meetings, incentives and charters channel, which typically books very far in advance and can represent
a significant portion of the ship, or even an entire sailing, in one transaction.



Disciplined Fleet Expansion





Improve Operating Efficiency and Lower Costs



We continually focus on enhancing financial performance through
a variety of business improvement initiatives designed to reduce costs while improving the overall product we deliver. Since the
beginning of 2008, NCLH and Prestige have significantly reduced their operating cost base through various programs including contract
renegotiations, overhead rationalization, global purchasing and logistics optimization and fuel consumption reduction initiatives.
We hedge fuel purchases in order to provide greater visibility of fuel expense. As of December 31, 2014, we had hedged approximately
68%, 55%, 39% and 8% of our remaining 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018 projected metric tons of fuel purchases, respectively. We expect
the addition of Oceania and Regent, as well as the upcoming newbuilds for both Norwegian and Prestige, to drive further operating
efficiencies over the long term.



Expand and Strengthen Our Product Distribution Channels



As part of our growth strategy, we continually look for ways to
deepen and expand our sales channels. We most recently announced a substantial expansion of our North American sales team, almost
doubling the number of business development managers in the field, and increasing the overall sales group by more than 40 percent.
We continue to invest in our brands by enhancing websites and reservation departments where travel agents and guests have the ability
to book cruise vacations.



We focus on distribution through our primary channels: “Retail/Travel
Agent,” “International,” and “Meetings, Incentives and Charters.”



Retail/Travel Agent.The retail/travel
agent channel represents the majority of our ticket sales. Our travel partner base is comprised of an extensive network of approximately
23,000 independent travel agencies including brick and mortar, internet-based and home-based operators located in North America,
South America, Europe, Asia and Australia. Norwegian introduced our Partners First program in 2011 and since then has implemented
over 200 initiatives specifically designed to improve efficiency with travel agent channels and our guests. Recently, Norwegian
revolutionized and streamlined our booking process by introducing “Universal Agents” that have the ability to handle
both group and full individual tariff bookings. Additionally, Norwegian launched a new online-booking tool that features an array
of functionalities giving travel partners more freedom and flexibility to make reservations online, providing the ability to customize
management and promotion of group reservations.



The addition of Prestige’s Oceania and Regent brands
product portfolio gives us access to travel agents specializing in the Upscale Segment that would traditionally not market or sell
Norwegian cruises. Prestige has made substantial investments with improvements in booking technologies, transparent pricing strategies,
effective marketing tools, improved communication and cooperative marketing initiatives. We have sales force teams dedicated to
Oceania and Regent who work







closely with our travel agency partners on maximizing
their marketing and sales effectiveness through product training, education and the sharing of “best-practices.”



International.Norwegian has an
international sales presence in Europe and representatives covering Latin America, Australia and Asia. Norwegian is primarily focused
on increasing business in the European market, which has grown significantly in recent years but remains under-penetrated. In Europe,
Norwegian offers local itineraries year-round and “Freestyle Cruising” has been well received. Norwegian expanded its
sales force in Europe allowing development of distribution in Europe in a manner similar to its U.S. operation. In support of this
European strategy, in 2013 Norwegian Epic was deployed in Europe for an extended summer season and announced a year-round deployment
for 2015. Norwegian also initiated a two-ship year-round deployment in Europe with Norwegian Jade and Norwegian Spirit. Norwegian
is forging a closer distribution partnership with Genting HK to develop product distribution across the Asia Pacific region and
for further product distribution in South America, we have invested in a Brazilian sales channel.



The Acquisition of Prestige enhances our international
sourcing. Prestige sources approximately 30% of passengers from outside of North America, compared to approximately 15% for Norwegian,
further diversifying our sourcing profile. Prestige has an international sales office in Southampton, U.K. that services Europe
and various general sales agents covering Latin America, Australia and Asia. We expect to leverage Prestige’s global experience
and market position to further enhance Norwegian’s international profile.



For information regarding risks associated with our international
operations, see Part I Item 1A-Risk Factors in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the risk factor titled “Conducting
business internationally may result in increased costs and risks.”



Meetings, Incentives and Charters.This
channel focuses on full ship charters as well as corporate meeting and incentive travel. These sales often have very long lead
times and can fill a significant portion of the ship’s capacity, or even an entire sailing, in one transaction. The acquisition
of Sixthman in 2012, a company specializing in developing and delivering music-oriented charters, opened up a new market for travel
partners to be able to sell high-quality music experiences at sea to guests seeking more innovative entertainment options.



Expand Strategic Marketing Partnerships





Prestige has a number of high-profile partnerships including Jacques
Pepin, the Smithsonian Institution, Ralph Lauren Home and Dakota Jackson. Oceania has engaged Master Chef Jacques Pepin as its
Executive Culinary Director. Marina and Riviera’s Jacques restaurant was decorated with heirloom antiques, furnishings and
art from Pepin’s personal collection.  Each dish has been reinterpreted by Master Chef Pepin. The Marina and Riviera
feature suites designed and furnished by Ralph Lauren Home and noted furniture designer Dakota Jackson. Starting in July 2015,
the Smithsonian Institution will be hosting a new enrichment program, The Smithsonian Collection by Smithsonian Journeys on Regent.
This new guest lecture series will feature a wide range of experts, from noted art historians to leading authors and former diplomats,
leading spirited discussions both aboard the ships and ashore.



Itineraries



We offer cruise itineraries ranging from one day to 180-days calling
on over 420 worldwide locations, including destinations in the Caribbean, Mexico, Alaska, Europe, Hawaii, Canada, New England,
Central and South America, Africa, Asia, Tahiti and the South Pacific and Australia and New Zealand. We have developed, and are
continuing to develop, innovative itineraries to position our ships in new and niche markets as well as in the mainstream markets
throughout the Americas and Europe.



We believe that these destination-focused itineraries, complemented
by a comprehensive shore excursion program (which is included in the all-inclusive fare for cruises on the Regent ships), differentiate
our brands from many of our competitors. We call on “must-see”







and exotic destinations, many of which include overnight stays in
port, allowing guests to have more in-depth experiences than would otherwise be possible in only a single day port call.



We offer a wide variety of cruises ranging in length from one day
to three weeks under our Norwegian brand. Each of Norwegian’s 13 modern ships have been purpose-built to consistently deliver
the “Freestyle Cruising” product offering, which we believe provides Norwegian with a competitive advantage by differentiating
it from other cruise line offerings.



Oceania operates cruises that are primarily 10, 12 and 16 days in
length. Oceania also operates a number of itineraries that last between 20 and 180 days. Regent also offers several longer itineraries
of up to 136 days, which is a staple of the luxury segment. At the same time, Regent has expanded an addressable market and captured
guest spending for a greater portion of guests’ cruising life cycle by selling segments of these longer itineraries as shorter
cruises (i.e., which last seven to 20 days), designed for more time-constrained customers. The deployment flexibility created by
the use of longer itineraries translates off-peak seasons into more profitable portions of longer cruises.



Passenger Ticket Revenue



Our cruise ticket prices generally include cruise fare and a wide
variety of onboard activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment. In some instances, cruise ticket prices include
round-trip airfare to and from the port of embarkation, top-shelf open bars, unlimited shore excursions and pre-cruise hotel packages.
Prices vary depending on the particular cruise itinerary, stateroom category selected and the time of year that the voyage takes
place. We generate additional revenue on certain of our ships from casino operations, gift shop purchases, spa services, photo
services and other similar items.



Revenue Management Practices



Norwegian bases ticket pricing and revenue management on a strategy
focused on developing early booking occupancy rates to drive higher Net Yields. Norwegian performs extensive analyses in order
to determine booking history and trends by sailing, stateroom category, travel partner, market segment, itinerary and distribution
channel. In addition, stateroom categories are identified throughout each cruise ship and prices for cruise fares are based on
these stateroom categories. Typically, the initial published fares are established 18 months in advance of the departure of a cruise
at a level which, under normal circumstances, would provide a high occupancy. If the rate at which stateroom inventory is sold
differs from expectations, prices are adjusted for each stateroom category accordingly. This can be done through promotions, special
rate codes, opening and closing categories, or price changes.



Prestige bases ticket pricing and revenue management on a strategy
based on marketing efforts (“market to fill”) as the cruise date approaches. Prestige clearly articulates to customers
and travel agents that the initial launch offers will be the lowest price package and that these prices and certain offers in the
package are subject to increase as the cruise date approaches, as well as the specific dates on which those increases may occur.
This strategy assists in maintaining and improving a high price point, which is fundamental in the Upscale Segment.



Prestige concentrates on improving early booking occupancy rates
to drive higher Net Yields. Prestige executes targeted and high frequency marketing campaigns that communicate a message of a value-packed
cruise offering in both North American and select international markets. To increase the effectiveness of these targeted marketing
programs, Prestige emphasizes communication to keep the travel agents engaged and informed and utilizes call centers focusing on
both inbound calls and outbound calls to high potential targeted customers. This three-prong marketing strategy assists in maximizing
the revenue potential from each customer contact generated by various marketing campaigns. We believe these strategies and other
initiatives carried out by the Prestige sales organization and distribution channels will drive sustainable growth in the number
of guests carried and in Net Yields achieved.



Each of our brands maintain separate sales and marketing teams as
well as reservation centers, which allows each brand to effectively communicate its identity and brand promise to its intended
market.



Onboard and Other Revenue



Norwegian ticket prices typically include cruise accommodations,
meals in certain dining facilities and many onboard activities such as entertainment, pool-side activities and various sports programs.
Norwegian generates additional revenue on our ships from casino operations, food and beverage, gift shop purchases, spa services,
photo services and other similar items. To maximize onboard revenue, Norwegian uses various cross-marketing and promotional tools
and are supported by point-of-sale systems permitting “cashless” transactions for the sale of these onboard products
and services. Food and beverage, gaming and shore excursions are generally managed directly by Norwegian while retail shops, spa
services, art auctions and internet services are generally managed through contracts with third-party concessionaires. These contracts
generally entitle us to a fixed percentage of the gross sales derived from these concessions.







Certain Prestige ticket prices have an all-inclusive element. Regent’s
offerings typically include free air transportation, a pre-cruise hotel night stay, premium wines and top shelf liquors, gratuities
and unlimited shore excursions. Oceania’s offerings typically include free air transportation and on certain sailings other
amenities. Therefore, Prestige derives nearly all of its revenue from passenger ticket revenue. Hence it is important for Prestige
to maintain a pricing discipline focusing on passenger ticket. We believe that this pricing discipline for Prestige drives revenue
performance, relatively long-booking windows, and allows us to maintain a positive relationship with the travel agency community.



Onboard and other revenue accounted for 29% of our revenue in each
of the years 2014 and 2013 and 30% in 2012.



Seasonality



Our revenue is seasonal based on the demand for cruises. Historically,
the seasonality of the North American cruise industry generally results in the greatest demand for cruises during the Northern
Hemisphere summer months. This predictable seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations.
The seasonality of our results is increased due to ships being taken out of service for regularly scheduled Dry-docks, which we
typically schedule during non-peak demand periods.



Marketing, Brand Communications and Advertising





Norwegian has made significant progress in expanding marketing
reach with our online products and services, including investing in our mobile site and mobile apps. Our website,www.ncl.com,
serving both our travel agency partners and guests, has been a major focus of this momentum. We are continually enhancing our
website to ensure that we communicate brand promise, promote relevant product information and align with the “Cruise Like
a Norwegian” and “Freestyle Cruising” messages. The Norwegian consumer and travel agency partner booking engine
provides travel agency partners and guests the ability to shop and purchase any of the worldwide cruise itineraries with a more
intuitive and informative online experience. All three brands continue to develop additional functionality and tools to serve
our travel agency partners and guests. In fact, an independent study by Key Lime Interactive, the Contemporary and Premium Brands
2014 Cruise Competitive Benchmark Study, compared seven of the top cruise brands for overall web experience and Norwegian earned
the top spot ranking Best-in-Class for overall site satisfaction.





We provide robust marketing support to our travel partners through
a variety of programs. At Norwegian, Marketing Headquarters is an online resource with a multitude of consumer marketing materials
that agents can easily customize for their use in promoting our products. Both Oceania and Regent have similar online programs.
Likewise, all three brands have a travel agent “University” program,







an online travel partner education program that includes a wide
variety of courses about our ships, itineraries and other selling best practices. In 2014, Norwegian launched Norwegian Central,
a new travel agent portal that consolidates all travel agent tools under a single platform with a single sign-on in order to make
it easy for travel agents to do business with us. Norwegian Central includes Norwegian’s booking engine, research materials,
Marketing Headquarters, the University program and sales team contact information.



Guest feedback and research is also a critically important element
in the development of our overall marketing and business strategies. We regularly initiate custom research studies among both travel
partners and consumers to assess the impact of various programs and/or to solicit feedback that helps shape future direction.



Ship Operations and Cruise Infrastructure



Ship Maintenance and Logistics





Suppliers



Our largest capital expenditures are for ship construction and acquisition.
Our largest operating expenditures are for payroll (including our contract with a third party who provides certain crew services),
fuel, food and beverage, travel agent services and advertising and marketing. Most of the supplies that we require are available
from numerous sources at competitive prices. In addition, owing to the large quantities that we purchase, we can obtain favorable
prices for many of our supplies. Our purchases are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. Payment terms granted by the suppliers
are generally customary terms for the cruise industry.



Crew and Staff



Best-in-class guest service levels are paramount in the markets
in which we operate, particularly in the Upscale Segment, where travelers have discriminating tastes and high expectations for
service quality. We have dedicated increasing attention and resources to ensure that our service offerings on all of our ships
meet the demands of our guests. Among other initiatives, we have implemented rigorous onboard training programs, with a focus on
career development. In addition, to ensure that guests receive highly personalized service and attention to detail, we staff Oceania
and Regent ships to offer crew to guest ratios that range from 1:1.4 to 1:1.7, which is among the highest in the industry. We believe
that our dedication to anticipating and meeting our guests’ every need differentiates our operations and fosters close relationships
between our guests and crew, helping to build customer loyalty.



We place the utmost importance on the safety of our guests and crew.
We operate all of our vessels to meet and exceed the requirements of SOLAS and International Management Code for the Safe Operation
of Ships and for Pollution Prevention (“ISM Code”), the international safety standards which govern the cruise industry.
Every crew member is well trained in the Company’s stringent safety protocols, participating in regular safety trainings,
exercises and drills onboard every one of our ships.



Our captains are experienced seafarers. We further ensure that our
captains regularly undergo rigorous training on navigation and bridge operations. To assist our captains and officers while at
sea, we have extensive navigation protocols in place. Our bridge operations are based on robust navigational procedures and risk
analysis. Our bridge teams follow pre-set voyage plans which are thoroughly reviewed and discussed by the captain and bridge team
prior to port departures and arrivals. In addition, all of our ships employ the latest state-of-the-art navigational equipment
and technology to ensure that our bridge teams have the most accurate data regarding the planned itinerary.



Prior to every cruise setting sail, we hold a mandatory safety drill
for all guests during which important safety information is reviewed and demonstrated. We also show an extensive safety video which
runs continuously on the stateroom televisions. Our fleet is equipped with modern navigational control and fire prevention and
control systems. In recent years, our ships have continuously been upgraded and include internal and external regulatory audits.







We have developed Safety Management Systems (“SMS”),
which establish policies, procedures, training, qualification, quality, compliance, audit and self-improvement standards for all
employees, both shipboard and shoreside. SMS also provides real-time reports and information to support the fleet and risk management
decisions. Through these systems, our senior managers, as well as ship management, can focus on consistent, high quality operation
of the fleet. Our SMS are approved and audited annually by our classification societies Det Norske Veritas and Lloyds Register,
and they also undergo regular internal audits as well as annual/semiannual inspections by the U.S. Coast Guard, flag state and
other port state authorities. We screen and train our crew to ensure crew familiarity and proficiency with the safety equipment
onboard. Various safety measures have been implemented on all of our ships and additional personnel have been appointed in our
ship operations departments.



Insurance



We maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, which
are maintained in amounts related to the estimated market value of each ship. The coverage for each of the hull and machinery policies
is maintained with syndicates of insurance underwriters from the European and U.S. insurance markets.



In addition to the insurance coverage on the hull and machinery
of our ships, we seek to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage and believe that our current coverage is at appropriate levels
to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business. The insurance we carry includes:



•Protection and indemnity insurance (coverage for passenger, crew and third-party liabilities), including insurance against
risk of pollution liabilities;



•War risk insurance, including terrorist risk insurance, on each ship. The terms of our war risk policies include provisions
where underwriters can give seven days’ notice to the insured that the policies will be cancelled in the event of a change
of risk which is typical for policies in the marine industry. Upon any proposed cancellation the insurer shall, before expiry of
the seven day period, submit new terms; and



•Insurance for our shoreside property and general liability risks.



We believe that all of our insurance coverage, including those noted
above, is subject to market-standard limitations, exclusions and deductible levels.



The Athens Convention Relating to the Carriage of Passengers and
Their Luggage by Sea (1974) (the “Athens Convention”) and the Protocol to the Athens Convention Relating to the Carriage
of Passengers and Their Luggage by Sea (1976) (the “1976 Protocol”) are generally applicable to passenger ships. The
U.S. has not ratified the Athens Convention; however, with limited exceptions, the 1976 Protocol may be contractually enforced
with respect to cruises that do not call at a U.S. port. The IMO Diplomatic Conference agreed to a new protocol to the Athens Convention
on November 1, 2002 (the “2002 Protocol”). The 2002 Protocol, which took effect on April 23, 2014, establishes
for the first time a level of compulsory insurance which must be maintained by passenger ship operators with a right of direct
action against the insurer. In addition, on December 31, 2012, the European Union (“EU”) Passenger Liability Regulation
became effective and requires us to carry a minimum level of financial responsibility per passenger per incident. We believe our
ships’ entries with their respective protection and indemnity associations provides the compulsory insurance; however, no
assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will remain available to provide the level and type of coverage
required.



Trademarks



We own a number of registered trademarks relating to, among other
things, the names “NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE,” “CRUISE LIKE A NORWEGIAN,” the names of our ships (except where
trademark applications for these have been filed and are pending), incentive programs and specialty services rendered on our ships
and specialty accommodations such as “THE HAVEN BY NORWEGIAN.” In addition, we own registered trademarks relating to
the “FREESTYLE” family of names, including, “FREESTYLE CRUISING,” “FREESTYLE DINING” and “FREESTYLE
VACATION.” Other significant marks include our SCHOOL OF FISH DESIGN marks that display one fish swimming against a school
of fish. We believe our “NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE,” “CRUISE LIKE A NORWEGIAN,” “FREESTYLE CRUISING,”
“FREESTYLE DINING,” and “FREESTYLE VACATION,” the names of our ships as well as the SCHOOL OF FISH DESIGN
and CRUISE LIKE A NORWEGIAN logos are widely recognized throughout North America and Europe and have considerable value.



Under the Oceania brand, we own a number of registered trademarks
in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions relating to, among other things, the names “OCEANIA CRUISES,” “YOUR
WORLD. YOUR WAY,” “REGATTA,” “INSIGNIA” and the Oceania logo.



We own various U.S. and foreign trademark registrations, including
registrations covering “SEVEN SEAS CRUISES,” “SEVEN SEAS NAVIGATOR,” “SEVEN SEAS MARINER,”
“SEVEN SEAS VOYAGER” and “LUXURY GOES EXPLORING.” We also







claim common law rights in trademarks and trade names used in conjunction
with our ships, incentive programs, customer loyalty program and specialty services rendered on board our ships.



The Regent ships have been operating under the Regent brand since
2006. In connection with the Regent Seven Seas Transaction, we entered into a trademark license agreement with Regent Hospitality
Worldwide, Inc., which we amended in February 2011, granting us the right to use the “Regent” brand family of
marks. The amended trademark license agreement allows Regent to use the Regent trade name, in conjunction with cruises, in perpetuity,
subject to the terms and conditions stated in the agreement.



Regulatory Issues



Registration of Our Ships



Fifteen of the ships that we currently operate are registered in
the Bahamas. One of our ships, Pride of America, is a U.S.-flagged ship. Five of our ships are registered in the Marshall Islands.
Our ships registered in the Bahamas and the Marshall Islands are inspected at least annually pursuant to Bahamian and Marshall
Islands requirements and are subject to International laws and regulations and to various U.S. federal regulatory agencies, including,
but not limited to, the U.S. Public Health Service and the U.S. Coast Guard. Our U.S.-registered ship is subject to laws and regulations
of the U.S. federal government, including, but not limited to, the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) the U.S. Coast
Guard and U.S. Department of Labor. The international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties and other legal requirements
applicable to our operations change regularly, depending on the itineraries of our ships and the ports and countries visited.



Our ships are subject to inspection by the port regulatory authorities
in the various countries that they visit. Such inspections include verification of compliance with the maritime safety, security,
environmental, customs, immigration, health and labor regulations applicable to each port as well as with international requirements.





Certain of our ships are also subject to periodic class surveys
by ship classification societies, including Dry-dock inspections, to verify that they have been maintained in accordance with the
rules of the classification societies and that recommended maintenance and required repairs have been satisfactorily completed.
Class certification is required for our cruise ships to be flagged in a specific country, obtain liability insurance and legally
operate as passenger cruise ships. For more information on Dry-dock work, see “Our Business—Ship Operations and Cruise
Infrastructure—Ship Maintenance and Logistics.”







Health and Environment



Our ships are subject to U.S. and various international, national,
state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including but not limited to MARPOL, that govern, among
other things, air emissions, waste discharge, water management and disposal and the storage, handling, use and disposal of hazardous
substances such as chemicals, solvents and paints. Under such laws and regulations, we are prohibited from, among other things,
discharging certain materials, such as petrochemicals and plastics, into waterways. Specifically, in the U.S., we comply with the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Vessel General Permit (“VGP”) program.



Also in the U.S., we must meet the U.S. Public Health Service’s
requirements, including ratings by inspectors from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) and the FDA.
We believe we rate at the top of the range of CDC and FDA scores achieved by the major cruise lines. In addition, the cruise industry
and the U.S. Public Health Service have agreed on regulations for food, water and hygiene to assist cruise lines in achieving the
highest health and sanitation standards on cruise ships.



The U.S. Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships, which implements the
MARPOL convention, provides for severe civil and criminal penalties related to ship-generated pollution for incidents in U.S. waters
within three nautical miles of land and in some cases within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone.



The U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA 90”) provides
for strict liability for water pollution caused by the discharge of oil in the 200-mile exclusive economic zone of the United States,
subject to defined monetary limits. OPA 90 requires that in order for us to operate in U.S. waters, we must have Certificates of
Financial Responsibility from the U.S. Coast Guard for each of our ships that operate in these waters. We have these certificates
that demonstrate our ability to meet the maximum amount of OPA 90 related liability that our ships could be subject to for removal
costs and damages, such as from an oil spill or a release of a hazardous substance.



The Clean Water Act of 1972 and other laws and regulations provide
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) with the authority to regulate commercial vessels’ incidental
discharges of ballast water, bilge water, gray water, anti-fouling paints and other substances during normal operations within
the U.S. three mile territorial zone and inland waters. The U.S. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System was designed to
minimize pollution within U.S. territorial waters. For our affected ships, all of the requirements are laid out in the VGP, which
is an EPA requirement. The VGP establishes effluent limits for 26 specific discharges incidental to the normal operation of a vessel.
In addition to these discharge and vessel specific requirements, the VGP includes requirements for inspections, monitoring, reporting
and record-keeping.



Pursuant to the Federal Maritime Commission (“FMC”)
and U.S. Coast Guard regulations, we have covered our financial responsibility with respect to death or injury to passengers and
water pollution by providing required guarantees from our insurers with respect to such potential liabilities. This includes obtaining
Certificates of Financial Responsibility required by the U.S. Coast Guard relating to our ability to satisfy liabilities in cases
of water pollution.



Most U.S. states that border navigable waterways or sea coasts have
also enacted environmental regulations that impose strict liability for removal costs and damages resulting from a discharge of
oil or a release of a hazardous substance. These laws may be more stringent than U.S. federal law and in some cases have no statutory
limits of liability. The state of Alaska enacted legislation that prohibits certain discharges in designated Alaskan waters and
requires that certain discharges be monitored to verify compliance with the standards established by the legislation. The state
environmental regimes in Alaska are more stringent than the federal regime under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act with regard
to discharge from vessels. The legislation also provides that repeat violators of the regulations could be prohibited from operating
in Alaskan waters.



The EU has adopted a substantial and diverse range of environmental
measures aimed at improving the quality of the environment. To support the implementation and enforcement of European environmental
legislation, the EU has adopted directives on environmental liability and enforcement and a recommendation providing for minimum
criteria for environmental inspections. The European Commission’s (“EC”) strategy is to reduce atmospheric emissions
from seagoing ships. The EC strategy seeks to implement sulfur oxides Emission Control Areas (“ECAs”) set out in MARPOL,
as discussed below. In addition, the EC goes beyond the IMO by introducing requirements to use low sulfur (less than 0.1%) marine
gas oil in EU ports.



MARPOL specifies requirements for ECAs with stricter limitations
on sulfur emissions in these areas. Ships operating in the Baltic Sea ECA, the North Sea/English Channel ECA, the North American
ECA and the area which extends approximately 50 miles off the coasts of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands are required to
use fuel with a sulfur content of no more than 0.1% or use alternative emission reduction methods, provided the alternatives are
at least as effective in terms of emissions reductions. Other additional ECAs may also be established in the future, such as for
areas around Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, the Mediterranean Sea and Mexico.



The MARPOL global limit on fuel sulfur content outside of ECAs will
be reduced to 0.5% from the current 3.5% global limit on and after January 2020. The 0.5% global standard will be subject
to an IMO review by 2018 to determine the availability of fuel oil to comply with this standard, taking into account the global
fuel oil market supply and demand, an analysis of trends in fuel oil markets and any other relevant issues. If the IMO determines
that there is insufficient fuel to comply with the 0.5% standard in January 2020, then this requirement will be delayed to
January 2025, at the latest. However, the European Union Parliament and Council have set







2020 as the final date for the 0.5% fuel sulfur limit to enter force,
regardless of the 2018 IMO review results. This European Union Sulfur Directive will cover European Union Member State territorial
waters that are within 12 nautical miles of their coastline. We believe that compliance with the 0.5% global standard could significantly
increase our fuel costs. However, the magnitude of this increase is not reasonably determinable at this time due to the length
of time until the global standard becomes effective and the other potential mitigating factors discussed below. The cost impacts
from implementing progressively lower sulfur content requirements may be mitigated by the favorable impact of future changes in
the supply and demand balance for marine and other fuels, future developments of and investments in sulfur emission abatement and
propulsion technologies, including more advanced engines, more effective hull coatings and paints, exhaust gas cleaning systems,
propeller design, more efficient shipboard systems and the use of alternative lower-cost and lower-emission fuels, such as liquefied
natural gas, both at sea and in port.



Recently adopted amendments to MARPOL will make the Baltic Sea a
“Special Area” where sewage discharges from passenger ships will be restricted. Stricter discharge restrictions are
currently in effect for new passenger ships whose construction began after January 1, 2016, and for existing passenger ships starting
in 2018. The underlying requirements may impact our operations unless suitable port waste facilities are available, or new technologies
for onboard waste treatment are developed. Accordingly, the cost of complying with these requirements is not determinable at this
time, however, we do not expect it to be material.



In addition to the existing legal requirements, we are committed
to helping to preserve the environment, because a clean, unspoiled environment is a key element that attracts guests to our ships.
In 2012, Norwegian received its International Organization for Standardization’s (“ISO”) 9001:2008 certification,
which is the primary globally accepted standard for quality assurance and quality performance. This is a milestone which sets the
stage for quality operations and guest satisfaction. Furthermore, Norwegian is certified under the ISO 14001 Standard. This voluntary
standard sets requirements for establishment and implementation of a comprehensive environmental management system which we have
adopted for our operations. Currently we operate under an Environmental Management Plan that is incorporated into the SEMS program.



If we violate or fail to comply with environmental laws, regulations
or treaties, we could be fined, or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other
expenditures to comply with changing environmental laws, regulations and treaties. Any fines or other sanctions for violation or
failure to comply with environmental requirements or any expenditures required to comply with environmental requirements could
have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, cash flow or financial condition.



Permits for Glacier Bay, Alaska



In connection with certain of our Alaska cruise operations, we rely
on concession permits from the U.S. National Park Service to operate our ships in Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve. We currently
hold a concession permit allowing for 22 calls per summer cruising season through September 30, 2019. However, there can be
no assurance that such permit will be renewed when necessary or that regulations relating to the renewal of such permit will remain
unchanged in the future.



Security and Safety



The IMO has adopted safety standards as part of SOLAS, which apply
to all of our ships. SOLAS establishes requirements for vessel design, structural features, construction methods and materials,
refurbishment standards, life-saving equipment, fire protection and detection, safe management and operation and security in order
to help ensure the safety and security of our guests and crew. All of our crew undergo regular safety training exercises that meet
all international and national maritime regulations.



SOLAS requires that all cruise ships are certified as having safety
procedures that comply with the requirements of the International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution
Prevention (“ISM Code”). We have obtained certificates certifying that our ships are in compliance with the ISM Code.
Each such certificate is granted for a five-year period and is subject to periodic verification.



The SOLAS requirements are amended and extended by the IMO from
time to time. For example, the International Port and Ship Facility Code (“ISPS Code”), was adopted by the IMO in December
2002 and provides for measures strengthening maritime security and places new requirements on governments, port authorities and
shipping companies in relation to security issues on ships and in ports.



In addition to the requirements of the ISPS Code, the U.S. Congress
enacted the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”), which implements a number of security measures at
ports in the U.S. including measures that apply to ships registered outside the U.S. and docking at ports in the U.S. The U.S.
Coast Guard has published MTSA regulations that require a security plan for every ship entering the territorial waters of the U.S.,
provide for identification requirements for ships entering such waters and establish various procedures for the identification
of crew members on such ships. The Transportation Workers Identification Credential is a federal requirement for accessibility
into and onto U.S. ports and U.S.-flagged ships.



Amendments to SOLAS required that ships constructed in accordance
with pre-1974 SOLAS requirements install automatic sprinkler systems by December 31, 2005.







IMO adopted an amendment to SOLAS which requires partial bulkheads
on stateroom balconies to be of non-combustible construction. All of our ships are in compliance with the SOLAS amendment. The
new SOLAS regulation on Long-Range Identification and Tracking entered into force on January 1, 2008.



Maritime-Labor



In 2006, the International Labor Organization (“ILO”),
an agency of the United Nations that develops and oversees international labor standards, adopted a new Consolidated Maritime Labor
Convention (“MLC 2006”). MLC 2006 contains a comprehensive set of global standards based on those that are already
found in 68 maritime labor Conventions and Recommendations adopted by the ILO since 1920. MLC 2006 includes a broad range of requirements,
such as a broader definition of a seafarer, minimum age of seafarers, medical certificates, recruitment practices, training, repatriation,
food, recreational facilities, health and welfare, hours of work and rest, accommodations, wages and entitlements. MLC 2006 added
requirements not previously in effect, in the areas of occupational safety and health. MLC 2006 became effective in certain countries
commencing August 2013. The Standard of Training Certification and Watch Keeping for Seafarers (“STCW”), as amended,
establishes minimum standards relating to training, certification and watchkeeping for our seafarers.



Financial Requirements



The FMC requires evidence of financial responsibility for those
offering transportation on passenger ships operating out of U.S. ports to indemnify passengers in the event of non-performance
of the transportation. Accordingly, each of our three brands are required to maintain a $22.0 million third-party performance guarantee
in respect of liabilities for non-performance of transportation and other obligations to passengers. Recent regulations have revised
the financial requirements with respect to both death/injury and non-performance coverages to increase the current $22.0 million
performance guarantee to $30.0 million effective April 2, 2015. Once fully effective in April 2015, the guarantee requirements
will be subject to additional consumer price index-based adjustments. We do not anticipate that compliance with the new rules will
have a material effect on our costs. Also, each of our brands have a legal requirement to maintain a security guarantee based on
cruise business originated from the U.K. and, accordingly, have established separate bonds with the Association of British Travel
Agents currently valued at British Pound Sterling 8.0 million in the aggregate. We also are required to establish financial responsibility
by other jurisdictions to meet liability in the event of non-performance of our obligations to passengers from those jurisdictions.



From time to time, various other regulatory and legislative changes
have been or may in the future be proposed that may have an effect on our operations in the U.S. and the cruise industry in general.



For information regarding risks associated with our compliance with
legal and regulatory requirements, see Part I Item 1A-Risk Factors in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the risk factor
titled “We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, which could adversely
affect our operations and any changes in the current laws and regulations could lead to increased costs or decreased revenue.”



Taxation



U.S. Income Taxation



The following discussion is based upon current provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative rulings and court decisions, all of which
are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. Changes in these authorities may cause the tax consequences to vary substantially
from the consequences described below.



Exemption of International Shipping Income under Section 883
of the Code



Under Section 883 of the Code and the related regulations, a foreign
corporation will be exempt from U.S. federal income taxation on its U.S. source income derived from the international operation
of ships (“shipping income”) if: (a) it is organized in a qualified foreign country, which is one that grants an “equivalent
exemption” from tax to corporations organized in the U.S. in respect of each category of shipping income for which exemption
is being claimed under Section 883 of the Code; and (b) either: (1) more than 50% of the value of its stock is beneficially owned,
directly or indirectly, by qualified shareholders, which includes individuals who are “residents” of a qualified foreign
country; (2) one or more classes of its stock representing, in the aggregate, more than 50% of the combined voting power and value
of all classes of its stock are “primarily and regularly traded on one or more established securities markets” in a
qualified foreign country or in the U.S. (the “publicly traded test”); or (3) it is a “controlled foreign corporation”
(a “CFC”) for more than half of the taxable year and more than 50% of its stock is owned by qualified U.S. persons
for more than half of the taxable year (the “CFC test”). In addition, U.S. Treasury Regulations require a foreign corporation
and certain of its direct and indirect shareholders to satisfy detailed substantiation and reporting requirements.



NCLH is incorporated in Bermuda, a qualified foreign country which
grants an equivalent exemption and NCLH meets the publicly traded test because its ordinary shares are primarily and regularly
traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, which is considered







to be an established securities market in the United States. Therefore,
we believe that NCLH qualifies for the benefits of Section 883 of the Code.



We believe and have taken the position that substantially all of
NCLH’s income, including the income of its ship-owning subsidiaries, is properly categorized as shipping income and that
we do not have a material amount of non-qualifying income. It is possible, however, that a much larger percentage of our income
does not qualify (or will not qualify) as shipping income. Moreover, the exemption for shipping income is only available for years
in which we will satisfy complex tests under Section 883 of the Code. There are factual circumstances beyond our control, including
changes in the direct and indirect owners of NCLH’s ordinary shares, including as a result of the Acquisition of Prestige,
which could cause NCLH or its subsidiaries to lose the benefit of the exemption under Section 883 of the Code. Further, any changes
in our operations could significantly increase our exposure to taxation on shipping income, and we can give no assurances on this
matter.



Under certain circumstances, changes in the identity, residence
or holdings of NCLH’s direct or indirect shareholders could cause NCLH’s ordinary shares not to be regularly traded
on an established securities market within the meaning of the regulations under Section 883 of the Code. Therefore, as a precautionary
matter, NCLH has provided protections in its bye-laws to reduce the risk of such changes impacting our abilility to meet the publicly
traded test by prohibiting any person, other than the Sponsors, from owning, directly, indirectly or constructively, more than
4.9% of NCLH’s ordinary shares unless such ownership is approved by NCLH’s Board of Directors (the “4.9% limit”).
Any outstanding shares held in excess of the 4.9% limit will be transferred to and held in a trust.



For U.S. federal income tax purposes, Regent and its non-U.S. subsidiaries
are disregarded as entities separate from their immediate foreign parent (PCH) and Oceania is treated as a corporation. For 2014,
both Regent and Oceania relied on PCH’s ability to meet the requirements necessary to qualify for the benefits of Section
883 of the Code. PCH is organized as a company in Panama, which grants an equivalent tax exemption to U.S. corporations, and is
thus classified as a qualified foreign country for purposes of Section 883 of the Code. PCH was classified as a CFC for the taxable
year ended December 31, 2014 and we believe PCH meets the ownership and substantiation requirements of the CFC test under the regulations
for that year.



Taxation of International Shipping Income Where Section 883 of
the Code is Inapplicable



Unless exempt from U.S. federal income taxation, a foreign corporation
is subject to U.S. federal income tax in respect of its “shipping income” that is derived from sources within the U.S.
If we fail to qualify for the exemption under Section 883 of the Code in respect of our U.S. sourced shipping income, we will be
subject to taxation in the U.S. on such income.



Generally, “shipping income” is any income that is derived
from the use of vessels, from the hiring or leasing of vessels for use on a time, voyage or bareboat charter basis or from the
performance of services directly related to those uses. For these purposes, shipping income attributable to transportation that
begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the U.S., which we refer to as “U.S. source shipping income,”
will be considered to be 50% derived from sources within the U.S.



If we do not qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code,
any U.S.-sourced shipping income or any other income that is considered to be effectively connected income would be subject to
federal corporate income taxation on a net basis (generally at a 35% rate) and state and local taxes, and our effectively connected
earnings and profits may also be subject to an additional branch profits tax of 30%, unless a lower treaty rate applies (the “Net
Tax Regime”). Our U.S. source shipping income is considered effectively connected income if we have, or are considered to
have, a fixed place of business in the U.S. involved in the earning of U.S. source shipping income, and substantially all of our
U.S. source shipping income is attributable to regularly scheduled transportation, such as the operation of a vessel that follows
a published schedule with repeated sailings at regular intervals between the same points for voyages that begin or end in the U.S.



If we do not have a fixed place of business in the U.S. or substantially
all of our income is not derived from regularly scheduled transportation, the income will generally not be considered to be effectively
connected income. In that case, we would be subject to a special 4% tax on our U.S. source shipping income (the “4% Tax Regime”).



Other United States Taxation



U.S. Treasury Regulations list several items of income which are
not considered to be incidental to the international operation of ships and, to the extent derived from U.S. sources, are subject
to U.S. federal income taxes under the Net Tax Regime discussed above. Income items considered non-incidental to the international
operation of ships include income from the sale of single-day cruises, shore excursions, air and other transportation, and pre-
and post-cruise land packages. We believe that substantially all of our income currently derived from the international operation
of ships is shipping income.







Income from U.S.-flagged Operation under the NCL America brand



Income derived from our U.S.-flagged operation generally will be
subject to U.S. corporate income taxes both at the federal and state levels.  We expect that such income will not be subject
to U.S. branch profits tax nor a U.S. dividend withholding tax under the U.S.-U.K. Income Tax Treaty.



U.K. Income Taxation



As a result of a restructuring, NCLH and NCLC became tax residents
of the U.K. and are subject to normal U.K. corporation tax.



U.S. Taxation of Gain on Sale of Vessels



Gains from the sale of vessels should generally also be exempt from
tax under Section 883 of the Code provided NCLH qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code in respect of our
shipping income. If, however, our gain does not qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code, then such gain could be subject
to either the Net Tax Regime or the 4% Tax Regime.



Certain State, Local and Non-U.S. Tax Matters



We may be subject to state, local and non-U.S. income or non-income
taxes in various jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business, own property or reside. We may be required to file
tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. Our state, local or non-U.S. tax treatment may not conform to the U.S. federal
income tax treatment discussed above. We may be required to pay non-U.S. taxes on dispositions of foreign property or operations
involving foreign property may give rise to non-U.S. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial.



Changes in Tax Laws



The various tax regimes to which we are currently subject result
in a relatively low effective tax rate on our worldwide income. These tax regimes, however, are subject to change, possibly with
retroactive effect. For example, legislation has been proposed in the past that would eliminate the benefits of the exemption from
U.S. federal income tax under Section 883 of the Code and subject all or a portion of our shipping income to taxation in the United
States. Moreover, we may become subject to new tax regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded
by current or future law including exemption of branch profits and dividend withholding taxes under the U.S.-U.K. Income Tax Treaty
on income derived in respect of our U.S.-flagged operation.



Employees



As of December 31, 2014, we employed approximately 2,700 full-time
employees worldwide in our shoreside operations and approximately 22,200 shipboard employees. Prestige ships also utilize a third
party to provide additional hotel and restaurant employees onboard. We refer you to “Risk Factors—Amendments to the
collective bargaining agreements for crew members of our fleet and other employee relation issues may materially adversely affect
our financial results” for more information regarding our relationships with union employees and our collective bargaining
agreements that are currently in place.



Ports and Facilities



We have an agreement with the Government of Bermuda whereby two
of our ships are permitted weekly calls in Bermuda through 2018 from Boston, Baltimore, Charleston and New York. In addition, we
own a private island in the Bahamas, Great Stirrup Cay, which we utilize as a port-of-call on certain itineraries. We have a contract
with the New York City Economic Development Corporation pursuant to which we receive preferential berthing rights at the Manhattan
Cruise Terminal. Furthermore, we have contracts with the Port of New Orleans and the Port of Miami pursuant to which we receive
preferential berths to the exclusion of other vessels for certain specified days of the week at the cities’ cruise ship terminals.
In addition, we have agreements with similar rights in Port Canaveral, FL and the Port of Tampa. We have an agreement with the
Houston Port Authority through April 15, 2017, for certain exclusive berthing rights at the Houston Passenger Cruise Terminal.
We have a concession permit with the U.S. National Park Service whereby our ships are permitted to call on Glacier Bay during each
summer cruise season through September 30, 2019. Most recently, we entered into an agreement with the British Virgin Islands Port
Authority granting priority berthing rights for a 15-year term with two options to extend the agreement for additional five year
terms.



Segment Reporting



We have concluded that our business has a single reportable segment.
Each brand, Oceania, Regent and Norwegian constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and management
regularly reviews the operating results and, therefore,







each brand is considered an operating segment. Our operating segments
have similar economic characteristics, including similar margins and similar products and services; therefore, we aggregate all
of the operating segments into one reportable segment.



Although we sell cruises on an international basis, our passenger
ticket revenue is primarily attributed to guests who make reservations in North America. Revenue attributable to North American
guests was 80.1%, 79.9% and 80.5% for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Substantially
all of our long–lived assets are located outside of the U.S. and consist primarily of our ships.



Available Information



We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q
and current reports on Form 8-K and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at
the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for
further information on the public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public at the SEC’s website at
http://www.sec.gov.



We also maintain an Internet site at http://www.nclhltdinvestor.com.
We will, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports if applicable, make available such reports free of charge
on our website.Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not incorporated into this annual
report on Form 10-K.



Executive Officers



The following table sets forth certain information regarding NCLH’s
executive officers as of February 20, 2015.



NameAgePositionFrank J. Del Rio60President and Chief Executive OfficerWendy A. Beck50Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerAndrew Madsen58President and Chief Operating Officer, Norwegian BrandJason M. Montague41President and Chief Operating Officer, Regent and Oceania BrandsRobert J. Binder50President of International OperationsDaniel S. Farkas46Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary



All the executive officers listed above hold their offices at the
pleasure of our Board of Directors, subject to rights under any applicable employment agreements. There are no family relationships
between or among any directors and executive officers.



Frank J. Del Riohas served as President and Chief Executive
Officer of NCLH since January 2015. Mr. Del Rio founded Oceania in October 2002 and has served as Chief Executive Officer of Prestige
or its predecessor since October 2002. Based in Miami, Florida, Mr. Del Rio has been responsible for the financial and strategic
development of Prestige. Between 2003 and 2007, Mr. Del Rio was instrumental in the development and growth of Oceania. Prior to
founding Oceania, Mr. Del Rio played a vital role in the development of Renaissance Cruises, serving as Co-Chief Executive Officer,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1993 to April 2001. Mr. Del Rio holds a B.S. in Accounting from the University
of Florida and is a Certified Public Accountant (inactive license).



Wendy A. Beckhas served as the Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer since September 2010. Prior to joining us, Ms. Beck served as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Domino’s Pizza, Inc. from May 2008 to August 2010. Prior to that she served as Senior Vice
President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Whataburger Restaurants, LP from May 2004 through April 2008 and
served as their Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer from August 2001 through April 2004. Ms. Beck was also employed
at Checkers Drive-In Restaurants, Inc. from 1993 through July 2001, serving as their Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Treasurer from 2000 through July 2001. Ms. Beck currently sits on the board of directors and chairs the audit committee
for At Home Corporation. Ms. Beck holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting from the University of South Florida and is
a Certified Public Accountant.



Andrew Madsenhas served as President and Chief Operating
Officer of the Norwegian brand since October 2014. Prior to joining us, Mr. Madsen served as President and Chief Operating
Officer of Darden Restaurants, Inc., a full service restaurant operations company, from November 2004 through September 2013.
Prior to that, he served as President of Olive Garden from March 2002 until November 2004 and as their Executive Vice
President of Marketing from December 1998 through March 2002. From 1997 until 1998, he was President of International
Master Publishers, a company that developed and marketed consumer information products such as magazines and compact discs. From
1993 until 1997, he held various positions at James River Corporation, including Vice President and General Manager for the Dixie
consumer products unit (now part of Georgia-Pacific LLC). From 1980 until 1992, he held various marketing positions with General
Mills, Inc., a manufacturer and marketer of consumer food products. Mr. Madsen holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from
DePauw University and an MBA from the University of Michigan.







Jason M. Montaguehas served as President and Chief Operating
Officer for the Regent and Oceania brands since December 2014. Prior to NCLH’s Acquisition of Prestige, Mr. Montague served
as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Prestige from September 2010 until NCLH’s Acquisition of Prestige
in November 2014. Mr. Montague worked on the integration of NCLH and Prestige as the Executive Vice President and Chief Integration
Officer of NCLH. He was instrumental in launching Oceania in 2002 and is widely regarded as one of the original co-founders. Mr.
Montague served as Oceania’s Vice President and Treasurer from 2004 to 2007 and Senior Vice President of Finance from 2008
to 2010. Mr. Montague has seen Oceania through the purchase of its initial R-class ships, the equity investment by Apollo Global
Management, LLC, the acquisition and integration of Regent Seven Seas Cruises, the financing and delivery of Oceania’s Marina
and Riviera newbuilds and the recent Acquisition of Prestige by NCLH. Prior to joining Oceania, Mr. Montague operated a successful
consulting practice focused on strategic planning and development of small to medium-sized companies. Previously, he held the position
of Vice President Finance for Alton Entertainment Corporation, a brand equity marketer who was majority owned by the Interpublic
Group of Companies. Mr. Montague holds a BBA in Accounting from the University of Miami.



Robert J. Binderhas served as President of International
Operations since February 2015. Prior to the Acquisition of Prestige, Mr. Binder served as the Vice Chairman of Prestige since
May 2011 and President of Prestige since January 2008 where he oversaw the global expansion of the Prestige brands and was responsible
for sales, marketing and branding efforts internationally. Mr. Binder played a key role in the development and design of new Oceania
ships, new restaurant concepts and the introduction of the Bon Apetit Culinary Center. He is co-founder of Oceania and previously
served as President of Oceania. Before launching Oceania, Mr. Binder was the President of Meadowoods Consulting, which provided
consulting services to the financial and travel services industries. From 1992 to 2001 he held several executive posts in the cruise
industry. Mr. Binder also held senior management positions at JP Morgan Chase, where he was a Strategic Planning Officer, and at
Renaissance Cruises, where he was Vice President of Sales. Mr. Binder earned master’s degrees in both Finance and Marketing
from Cornell University and did his undergraduate studies at Purdue University.



Daniel S. Farkashas served as Senior Vice President and
General Counsel of the Company since February 2008 and as Assistant Secretary of the Company since 2013. Since Mr. Farkas
joined us in January 2004, he has held the positions of Secretary from 2010 to 2013, Vice President and Assistant General
Counsel from 2005 to 2008, and Assistant General Counsel from 2004 to 2005. Mr. Farkas was formerly a partner in the Miami offices
of the law firm Mase and Gassenheimer specializing in maritime litigation. Before that he was an Assistant State Attorney for the
Eleventh Judicial Circuit in and for Miami-Dade County, Florida. Mr. Farkas currently serves on the board of directors of the Cruise
Industry Charitable Foundation and the Steamship Mutual Underwriting Association Limited. Mr. Farkas earned a Bachelor of Arts
degree Cum Laude with honors in English and American Literature from Brandeis University and a Juris Doctorate degree from the
University of Miami.



