Item 1. Business



History and Development of the Company



NCLH is a leading global cruise company which operates the Norwegian
Cruise Line, Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises brands. We have 22 ships with approximately 45,000 Berths and will introduce
five additional ships through 2019. Our ships currently offer itineraries to more than 510 destinations worldwide.



Norwegian commenced operations from Miami in 1966. In February 2000,
Genting HK acquired control of and subsequently became the sole owner of the Norwegian operations.



In January 2008, the Apollo Holders acquired 50% of the outstanding
ordinary share capital of NCLC. As part of this investment, the Apollo Holders assumed control of NCLC’s Board of Directors.
Also, in January 2008, the TPG Viking Funds acquired, in the aggregate, 12.5% of NCLC’s outstanding share capital from the
Apollo Holders.



In January 2013, NCLH completed its IPO, pursuant to which it sold
27,058,824 ordinary shares for net proceeds, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and expenses, of approximately
$473.9 million.



In November 2014, we completed the Acquisition of Prestige. We believe
that the combination of Norwegian and Prestige creates a cruise operating company with a rich product portfolio and strong market
presence.



The Sponsors have completed numerous Secondary Equity Offerings
and as of December 31, 2015 owned 29.3% of NCLH’s ordinary shares.



Corporate Reorganization



In February 2011, NCLH, a Bermuda limited company, was formed with
the issuance to the Sponsors of, in aggregate, 10,000 ordinary shares, with a par value of $.001 per share. In connection with
the consummation of the IPO, the Sponsors’ ordinary shares in NCLC were exchanged for the ordinary shares of NCLH, and NCLH
became the owner of 100% of the ordinary shares and parent company of NCLC (the “Corporate Reorganization”). At the
same time, NCLH contributed $460.0 million to NCLC and the historical financial statements of NCLC became those of NCLH. The Corporate
Reorganization was effected solely for the purpose of reorganizing our corporate structure. NCLH had not, prior to the completion
of the Corporate Reorganization, conducted any activities other than those incidental to its formation and to prepare for the Corporate
Reorganization and the IPO.



NCLC was treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes,
and the terms of the partnership (including the economic rights with respect thereto) were set forth in an amended and restated
tax agreement for NCLC. Economic interests in NCLC were represented by the partnership interests established under the tax agreement,
which we refer to as “NCL Corporation Units.”



In connection with the Corporate Reorganization, NCLC’s outstanding
profits interests granted under the profits sharing agreement to management (or former management) of NCLC were exchanged for an
economically equivalent number of NCL Corporation Units. We refer to the NCL Corporation Units exchanged for profits interests
granted under the profits sharing agreement as Management NCL Corporation Units. As a result of the Corporate Reorganization, the
Management NCL Corporation Units created a non-controlling interest within NCLH. The Management NCL Corporation Units received
upon the exchange of outstanding profits interests were subject to the same time-based vesting requirements and performance-based
vesting requirements applicable to the profits interests for which they were exchanged. The Management NCL Corporation Units issued
in exchange for the profits interests represented a 2.7% economic interest in NCLC as of the consummation of the IPO.



Subject to certain procedures and restrictions (including the vesting
schedules applicable to the Management NCL Corporation Units and any applicable legal and contractual restrictions), each holder
of Management NCL Corporation Units had the right to cause NCLC and NCLH to exchange the holder’s Management NCL Corporation
Units for ordinary shares of NCLH at an exchange rate equal to one ordinary share for every Management NCL Corporation Unit (or,
at NCLC’s election, a cash payment equal to the value of the exchanged Management NCL Corporation Units), subject to customary
adjustments for stock splits, subdivisions, combinations and similar extraordinary events.



When a holder of a Management NCL Corporation Unit exchanged such
unit for one of NCLH’s ordinary shares (or a cash payment equal to the value of one of such ordinary shares), the relative
economic interests of the exchanging NCL Corporation Unit holder and the holders of ordinary shares of NCLH were not altered. As
a result of the Corporate Reorganization, a non-controlling interest was created within NCLH and NCLH’s financial statements
and financial results differed from NCLC’s in certain respects.



In the fourth quarter of 2014, all Management NCL Corporation Units
were exchanged for NCLH ordinary shares and restricted shares. NCLH became the sole member and 100% owner of the economic interests
in NCLC and the non-controlling interest no longer exists. Accordingly, NCLC is now treated as a disregarded entity for U.S. federal
income tax purposes. No new NCLC profits interests or Management NCL Corporation Units will be issued; however, NCLH has granted,
and expects to continue to grant, equity to its employees and members of its Board of Directors under its long-term incentive plan.







Additional Information



NCLH is a Bermuda limited company formed as a holding company in
2011, with predecessors dating from 1966. Our registered offices are located at Cumberland House, 9th Floor, 1 Victoria Street,
Hamilton HM 11, Bermuda. Our principal executive offices are located at 7665 Corporate Center Drive, Miami, Florida 33126. Our
telephone number is (305) 436-4000. Our website is located atwww.nclhltdinvestor.com. The information that appears on our
websites is not part of, and is not incorporated by reference into this annual report or any other report or document filed with
or furnished to the SEC. Daniel S. Farkas, the Company’s Senior Vice President and General Counsel, is our agent for service
of process at our principal executive offices.



Our Company



NCLH Business Overview



NCLH is a leading global cruise company which operates the Norwegian,
Oceania Cruises and Regent brands. With a combined fleet of 22 ships with approximately 45,000 Berths, these brands offer itineraries
to more than 510 destinations worldwide including Europe, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, South America, Africa, Canada, Bermuda,
Caribbean, Alaska and Hawaii. Norwegian’s U.S.-flagged ship, Pride of America, provides the industry’s only entirely
inter-island itinerary in Hawaii.



In October 2015, Norwegian took delivery
of our largest ship to date, Norwegian Escape. We will introduce five additional ships through 2019: Regent’s Seven Seas
Explorer, on order for delivery in the summer of 2016; three Breakaway Plus Class Ships on order for deliveries to the Norwegian
fleet in the spring of 2017, spring of 2018 and fall of 2019; and a ship we acquired from a third partyto
join the Oceania Cruises’ fleet, which will be named Sirena. After its current Bareboat Charter ends in March 2016, we will
extensively refurbish Sirena to our standards. Sirena is a sister ship to the R-Class ships currently in the Oceania Cruises’
fleet and will be placed in service in the spring of 2016. These additions to our fleet will increase our total Berths to approximately
59,000.



All of our brands offer an assortment of features, amenities and
activities, including a variety of accommodations, multiple dining venues, bars and lounges, spa, casino and retail shopping areas
and numerous entertainment choices. All brands also offer a selection of shore excursions at each port of call as well as hotel
packages for stays before or after a voyage.



Norwegian is an innovator in cruise travel with 14 ships that have
been purpose-built to consistently deliver the “Freestyle Cruising” product, which offers freedom, flexibility and
choice to our guests who prefer to dine when they want, with whomever they want and without having to dress formally. Certain ships
in Norwegian’s fleet offer The Haven by Norwegian (“The Haven”), a luxurious, key-card access enclave that has
spacious accommodations with suites as large as 1,345 square feet and offers a “ship within a ship” experience. The
Haven includes two decks of suites, a private pool with multiple hot tubs and sundeck, a private fitness center and steam rooms,
fine dining in a private restaurant, casual outdoor dining, 24-hour concierge service and personal butlers. In 2015, Norwegian
was named “Europe’s Leading Cruise Line” for the eighth consecutive year, as well as “Caribbean’s
Leading Cruise Line” for the third time and “World’s Leading Large Ship Cruise Line” for the fourth straight
year by the World Travel Awards.



Oceania Cruises offers the finest cuisine at sea and immersive destination
experiences with destination-rich itineraries spanning the globe. Oceania Cruises operates a fleet of five mid-size ships, including
two 1,250-Berth O-Class ships, and three 684-Berth R-Class ships. Oceania Cruises is ranked as one of the world’s best cruise
lines by Condé Nast Traveler and Travel + Leisure. Oceania Cruises’ ships received “Best Dining,” “Best
Public Rooms” and “Best Cabins” from Cruise Critic Cruisers’ Choice Awards in 2015.



Regent Seven Seas Cruises is an all-inclusive cruise line which
provides all-suite accommodations, round-trip air transportation, highly personalized service, acclaimed cuisine, fine wines and
spirits, Wi-Fi, sightseeing excursions in every port and other amenities included in the cruise fare. The brand operates three
award-winning ships, totaling 1,890 Berths. Most recently, Regent Seven Seas Cruises won the “Best Cruise Ship, Luxury”
award, for Seven Seas Mariner, and the “Best Cruise Line, Luxury” award from the TravAlliance Travvy Awards. Regent
Seven Seas Cruises also won the 2015 National Association of Career Travel Agents “Luxury Cruise Line Partner of the Year”
award.



Our Fleet



The following table presents information about our ships and their
primary areas of operation based on current itineraries, which are subject to change.



Ship(1)YearDeliveredPrimary
    Areas of OperationNorwegianNorwegian Escape2015Caribbean, BahamasNorwegian Getaway2014Europe, Caribbean, BahamasNorwegian Breakaway2013Bermuda, Caribbean, BahamasNorwegian Epic2010EuropeNorwegian Gem2007Bahamas, Bermuda, Caribbean, Canada, New England







Norwegian Jade2006EuropeNorwegian Pearl2006Alaska, Bahamas, Caribbean, Pacific Coastal, Panama CanalNorwegian Jewel2005Alaska, Bahamas, Caribbean, Pacific Coastal, Panama Canal, MexicoPride of America2005HawaiiNorwegian Dawn2002Bermuda, Caribbean, Canada, New EnglandNorwegian Star2001Bermuda, Caribbean, Europe, Asia, Australia, New ZealandNorwegian Sun2001Caribbean, Alaska, Mexico, South America, Pacific CoastalNorwegian Sky1999BahamasNorwegian Spirit1998Caribbean, Bahamas, EuropeOceania CruisesOceania Riviera2012Caribbean, Mediterranean, Black SeaOceania Marina2011South America, Baltic, Mediterranean, Panama Canal, South PacificOceania Nautica2000Asia, Africa, Mediterranean, BalticOceania Regatta1998Caribbean, Panama Canal, New England, South America, Alaska, Mexico, Bermuda, CanadaOceania Insignia1998Mediterranean, Black Sea, Baltic, Caribbean, South America, Panama Canal, South Pacific, Asia, AustraliaRegentSeven Seas Voyager2003Asia, Africa, Baltic, MediterraneanSeven Seas Mariner2001South America, Mediterranean, Black Sea, Panama Canal, Canada, AlaskaSeven Seas Navigator1999Europe, Caribbean, Panama Canal, Alaska, New England, Asia







(1)The table does not include the three Breakaway Plus Class Ships on order for delivery to the Norwegian fleet in the spring
of 2017, spring of 2018 and fall of 2019 nor does it include the Seven Seas Explorer on order for delivery to the Regent fleet
in the summer of 2016 or Sirena which will be placed in service to the Oceania Cruises’ fleet in the spring of 2016.



Our Competitive Strengths



We believe that the following business strengths will enable us
to execute our strategy:



Rich Stateroom Mix





High-Quality Service



The Norwegian, Oceania Cruises and Regent brands all offer a high
level of onboard service. Norwegian continues to enhance the level of service on its ships through the recently launched (“The
Norwegian Edge”) program. This program introduces specific standards aimed at enhancing the overall guest experience which
we believe will promote further customer loyalty. We believe the Acquisition of Prestige allows for collaboration among the Norwegian,
Oceania Cruises and Regent brands which will facilitate our ability to provide an enhanced guest experience across all brands.
Oceania Cruises and Regent are known for their quality of service, including some of the highest crew-to-guest ratios in the industry
and a staff trained to deliver personalized and attentive service in a country club, casual setting.







Diverse Selection of Premium Itineraries



We have expanded our already broad range of premium itineraries.
Our fleet has a worldwide deployment, offering one to 180 days itineraries to more than 510 ports, including destinations in Scandinavia,
Russia, the Mediterranean, the Greek Isles, Alaska, Canada and New England, Asia, Tahiti and the South Pacific, Australia and New
Zealand, Africa, India, South America, the Panama Canal, and the Caribbean.



Strong Cash Flow



We believe our business model will generate a significant amount
of cash flow with high revenue visibility. All three of our brands afford the ability to pre-sell tickets, receive customer deposits
and sell onboard activities in advance with long lead times ahead of sailing. In terms of newbuild capital expenditures, the cash
flow impact is mitigated as we have export credit financing in place for all newbuild ships to fund approximately 80% of the contract
price of each ship.



Highly Experienced Management Team



Our senior management team is comprised of executives with extensive
experience in the cruise, travel, leisure and hospitality-related industries. Frank J. Del Rio is our President and Chief Executive
Officer. Mr. Del Rio has been responsible for the financial and strategic development of Prestige. Mr. Del Rio founded Oceania
Cruises in October 2002 and played a vital role in the development of Renaissance Cruises from 1993 to 2001. Andrew Stuart is our
President and Chief Operating Officer of our Norwegian brand. Mr. Stuart joined Norwegian in 1988 and has held several Senior Management
positions in Sales, Marketing and Passenger Services during his tenure before becoming President and Chief Operating Officer in
2015. Jason M. Montague is our President and Chief Operating Officer for the Regent and Oceania Cruises brands and was instrumental
in launching Oceania Cruises in 2002 and is widely regarded as one of its co-founders. Wendy Beck is our Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Beck has been with NCLH since 2010 and was instrumental in consummation of the IPO. For more on
our senior management, see “Executive Officers” below.



Our Business Strategies



We seek to attract vacationers with our products and services and
by creating differentiated itineraries in new markets on our current and upcoming ships with the aim of delivering an enhanced,
value-added vacation experience to our guests relative to other vacation alternatives. Our business strategies include the following:



Post-Acquisition of Prestige Strategy



We have implemented a corporate-wide strategy following the Acquisition
of Prestige which we believe will deliver a quality product to our guests and generate returns to our shareholders. We termed this
strategy the “New Deal” which includes three main tenets:



Organic growth. We capitalize on the knowledge
throughout the organization to identify areas where marginal changes can be implemented that promote growth from organic sources.
By sharing best practices across brands, our marketing teams find areas of opportunity to more effectively market to past guests
not only within each brand, but across brands as well.



Driving higher per diems to deliver higher yields.We are implementing a market-to-fill strategy which maintains pricing integrity by offering both the best price early in the
booking cycle and value-added promotions when necessary to avoid compromising on price. Diversification of deployment is another
key initiative to drive higher yields. Our destination management team reviews deployments across the fleet, either repositioning
ships to new destinations or fine-tuning itineraries, with the goal of creating scarcity which, in turn, leads to higher pricing.
We also look to increase demand through effective marketing and an enhanced sales force.



Leveraging scale to suppress
costs.We leverage the
combined purchasing power of our three brands to reduce costs throughout the organization. In addition, we have created a shared-services
model to manage the newly combined company. This model places vessel operations, finance, accounting, purchasing, legal, information
technology and human resources, as well as other departments, as a shared-service for all three brands. This shared-services model
not only generates expense-related synergies, but also facilitates the sharing of best practices across all areas.



Enhanced Product Offerings and Guest Experience



Norwegian’s ships offer up to 28 dining options, a diverse
range of accommodations and what we believe is the widest array of entertainment at sea. Norwegian is also enhancing the guest
experience with The Norwegian Edge, a program that includes a multi-year, $400 million investment to enhance the guest experience
via extensive ship revitalizations and enriched destination experiences. We plan to complete these revitalizations and destination
enhancements by the end of 2017, at which time nine Norwegian ships will have undergone stern to bow refurbishments, bringing them
to The Norwegian Edge standards. Oceania Cruises’ award-winning onboard dining, with multiple open seating dining venues,
is a central highlight of its cruise experience. Regent’s all-inclusive offering includes air transportation, shore excursions,
hotel packages, specialty restaurants, premium spirits and fine wines, gratuities and other amenities. Regent recently announced
a $125 million fleet-wide renovation program aimed at upgrading its existing fleet to the same standards as its upcoming Seven
Seas Explorer.







Maximize Net Yields



We focus on growing revenue through various initiatives aimed at
increasing ticket prices and Occupancy Percentages as well as onboard spending to drive higher overall Net Yields. Our specific
base-loading initiatives include:



Strategic Relationships.We developed strategic
relationships with travel agencies and international tour operators who commit to purchasing a certain level of inventory with
long lead times.



Meetings, Incentives and Charters.We increased
the focus on the meetings, incentives and charters channel, which typically books very far in advance and can represent a significant
portion of the ship, or even an entire sailing, in one transaction.



Casino Player Strategy.We have non-exclusive
arrangements with over 100 casino partners worldwide whereby loyal gaming guests are offered cruise reward certificates redeemable
for cruises. Through property sponsored events and joint marketing programs, we have the opportunity to market cruises to these
guests. These arrangements with casino partners have the dual benefit of filling open inventory and reaching guests that we
expect to generate above average onboard revenue through the casino and other onboard spending.



Disciplined Fleet Expansion



We have orders with Meyer Werft shipyard for three Breakaway Plus
Class Ships for delivery in the spring of 2017, spring of 2018 and fall of 2019. These ships will be the largest in our fleet,
reaching approximately 164,600 Gross Tons. With approximately 4,100 to 4,350 Berths each, they will be similar in design and innovation
to our first Breakaway Plus Class Ship, Norwegian Escape, which was delivered in October 2015. We also have a contract with Fincantieri
shipyard to build Seven Seas Explorer to be delivered in the summer of 2016. The all-suite, all-balcony Seven Seas Explorer will
feature sophisticated designer suites ranging from 300 to 3,875 square feet with amongst the highest guest-to-space ratio of 76.0
gross ton per guest and a crew-to-guest ratio of 1 to 1.4. The ship will include five open-seating gourmet restaurants, Regent’s
signature nine-deck open atrium, a two-story theater, two boutiques and an expansive Canyon Ranch SpaClub. In November 2014, we
acquired a ship from a third party to join the Oceania Cruises’ fleet which will be named Sirena. After its current Bareboat
Charter ends in March 2016, we will extensively refurbish the ship to meet our standards. The third party provided financing for
the contract price. We believe these new ships will allow us to continue expanding the reach of our brands, positioning us for
accelerated growth and providing an optimized return on invested capital.



Expand and Strengthen Our Product Distribution Channels



As part of our growth strategy, we continually look for ways to
deepen and expand our sales channels. We continue to invest in our brands by enhancing websites and passenger services departments
where travel agents and guests have the ability to book cruise vacations.



We focus on distribution through our three primary channels: “Retail/Travel
Agent,” “International,” and “Meetings, Incentives and Charters.”



Retail/Travel Agent.The retail/travel agent channel
represents the majority of our ticket sales. Our travel partner base is comprised of an extensive network of approximately 23,000
independent travel agencies including brick and mortar, internet-based and home-based operators located in North America, South
America, Europe, Asia and Australia. We have made substantial investments with improvements in booking technologies, transparent
pricing strategies, effective marketing tools, improved communication and cooperative marketing initiatives. We have expanded sales
force teams who work closely with our travel agency partners on maximizing their marketing and sales effectiveness across all three
of our brands. Our focused account management is designed to create solutions catered to the individual retailer through product
and sales training. This education creates a deeper understanding of all our offerings.



International.We continue to accelerate our international
expansion efforts, building on initiatives rolled out in 2015 that focused on increasing our presence in the fast growing Asia
Pacific region. We announced the re-deployment of Norwegian Star to the Australasia region, which was followed by the opening of
our sales office in Sydney, Australia which services the growing demand from the Asia Pacific region for cruises across our three
brands.



Our entry into the Chinese market includes a multi-pronged
strategy to expand our presence in what many believe will soon become the world’s second largest cruise market. We began
with the opening of sales and marketing offices in Shanghai, Beijing and Hong Kong that will serve dual purposes. These offices
will look to source Chinese guests for international cruises across our three brands, which together combine to form a broad portfolio
of voyages and itineraries to every corner of the globe where a Chinese cruiser would look to sail. These offices will support
our travel partners to source locally for our China-dedicated venture, our Breakaway Plus Class Ship being launched in the spring
of 2017, which will be purpose-built for Chinese consumers. The ship will be designed to deliver a blend of the Norwegian brand’s
offering of freedom and flexibility with amenities and features that will resonate with Chinese guests.



For information regarding risks associated with our international
operations, see Part I Item 1A-Risk Factors in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the risk factor titled “Conducting
business internationally may result in increased costs and risks.”







Meetings, Incentives and Charters.This channel
focuses on full ship charters as well as corporate meetings and incentive travel. These sales often have very long lead times and
can fill a significant portion of the ship’s capacity, or even an entire sailing, in one transaction. The acquisition of
Sixthman in 2012, a company specializing in developing and delivering music-oriented charters, opened up a new market for travel
partners to be able to sell high-quality music experiences at sea to guests.



Itineraries



We offer cruise itineraries ranging from one to 180-days calling
on over 510 worldwide locations, including destinations in Scandinavia, Russia, the Mediterranean, the Greek Isles, Alaska, Canada
and New England, Asia, Tahiti and the South Pacific, Australia and New Zealand, Africa, India, South America, the Panama Canal,
and the Caribbean. We have developed, and are continuing to develop, innovative itineraries to position our ships in new and niche
markets as well as in the mainstream markets throughout the Americas and Europe.



We believe that these destination-focused itineraries, complemented
by a comprehensive shore excursion program (which is included in the all-inclusive fare for cruises on the Regent ships), differentiate
our brands from many of our competitors. We call on “must-see” and exotic destinations, many of which include overnight
stays in port, allowing guests to have more in-depth experiences than would otherwise be possible in only a single day port call.



For some of our longer itineraries, we maximize profitability by
selling segments of the longer itineraries as shorter cruises (i.e., which last 7 to 20 days) in order to capture more time-constrained
customers. The deployment flexibility created by the use of longer itineraries translates off-peak seasons into more profitable
portions of longer cruises.



Passenger Ticket Revenue



We offer our guests a wide variety of cruise fare options when booking
a cruise. Our cruise ticket prices generally include cruise fare and a wide variety of onboard activities and amenities, including
meals and entertainment. In some instances, cruise ticket prices include round-trip airfare to and from the port of embarkation,
complimentary beverages, unlimited shore excursions and pre-cruise hotel packages. Prices vary depending on the particular cruise
itinerary, stateroom category selected and the time of year that the voyage takes place.



Onboard and Other Revenue





Onboard and other revenue accounted for 28% of our consolidated
revenue in 2015, 30% in 2014 and 31% in 2013.



Revenue Management Practices



Our revenue management function performs extensive analyses in order
to determine booking history and trends by sailing, stateroom category, travel partner, market segment, itinerary and distribution
channel in order to determine cruise ticket pricing. We concentrate on improving early booking occupancy rates to drive higher
Net Yields. We execute targeted and high-frequency marketing campaigns that communicate a message of a value-packed cruise offering
in both North American and select international markets. To increase the effectiveness of these targeted marketing programs, we
emphasize communication to keep the travel agents engaged and informed and utilize call centers focusing on both inbound calls
and outbound calls to high potential targeted customers. This marketing strategy assists in maximizing the revenue potential from
each customer contact generated by various marketing campaigns. We believe these strategies and other initiatives executed by our
distribution channels will drive sustainable growth in the number of guests carried and in Net Yields achieved.







Seasonality



Our revenue is seasonal and based on the demand for cruises. Historically,
the seasonality of the North American cruise industry generally results in the greatest demand for cruises during the Northern
Hemisphere’s summer months. This predictable seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations by quarter in our revenue
and results of operations. The seasonality of our results is increased due to ships being taken out of service for regularly scheduled
Dry-docks, which we typically schedule during non-peak demand periods.



Competition



Our primary competition includes operators such as Carnival Corporation
& Carnival plc, which owns and operates Carnival Cruise Line, Holland America Line, Princess Cruises and Seabourn Cruise Line,
among others, and Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., which owns and operates, Royal Caribbean International, Celebrity Cruises and Azamara
Club Cruises, among others, as well as other cruise lines such as Crystal Cruises and Silversea Cruises.In
addition, we compete with land-based vacation alternatives, such as hotels and resorts, vacation ownership properties, casinos,
andtourist destinations throughout the world.



Marketing Strategy



Our marketing teams work to enhance brand awareness and increase
levels of understanding and consideration of our products and services among consumers and trade and travel partners with the ultimate
goal of driving sales. We utilize a multi-channel strategy that may include a combination of print, television, radio, website/e-commerce,
direct mail, social media, mobile and e-mail campaigns, partnerships, customer loyalty initiatives, market research, and business-to-business
events.



Building customer loyalty among our past guests is an important
element of our marketing strategy. We believe that attending to the needs and motivations of our past guests creates a cost-effective
means of attracting business, particularly to our new ships and itineraries, because past guests are familiar with our brands,
products and services and often return to cruise with us. We have shared customer databases across our brands to further enhance
our communications with our past guests who receive newsletters and mailings with informative destination and product information
and promotional amenities. Continued investments in our websites is also key to ensuring the optimal pre-cruise planning experience
offering guests the ability to shop, reserve and purchase a breadth of onboard products and services. We have a strong communications
stream that provides customized pre-cruise information to help guests maximize their cruise experience as well as a series of communications
to welcome them home and ultimately engage them in booking another cruise.



Travel agents are crucial to our marketing
and distribution efforts. We provide robust marketing support and enhanced tools for our travel agent partners through a variety
of programs. Our travel partners can benefit from our online travel partner education programs that include a wide variety of courses
about our ships, itineraries and other best-selling practices. Agents can also easily customizea
multitude of consumer marketing materials for their use in promoting our products through our online platform.



Guest feedback is also a critically important element in the development
of our overall marketing and business strategies. We regularly initiate guest feedback studies among both travel partners and consumers
to assess the impact of various programs and/or to solicit information that helps shape future direction.



Ship Operations and Cruise Infrastructure



Ship Maintenance and Logistics





Suppliers



Our largest capital expenditures are for ship construction and acquisition.
Our largest operating expenditures are for payroll (including our contract with a third party who provides certain crew services),
fuel, food and beverage, travel agent services and advertising and marketing. Most of the supplies that we require are available
from numerous sources at competitive prices. In addition, owing to the large quantities that we purchase, we can obtain favorable
prices for many of our supplies. Our purchases are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. Payment terms granted by the suppliers
are generally customary terms for the cruise industry.







Crew and Staff



Best-in-class guest service levels are paramount in the markets
in which we operate, where travelers have discriminating tastes and high expectations for service quality. We have dedicated increasing
attention and resources to ensure that our service offerings on all of our ships meet the demands of our guests. Among other initiatives,
we have implemented rigorous onboard training programs, with a focus on career development. We believe that our dedication to anticipating
and meeting our guests’ every need differentiates our operations and fosters close relationships between our guests and crew,
helping to build customer loyalty.



We place the utmost importance on the safety of our guests and crew.
We operate all of our vessels to meet and exceed the requirements of SOLAS and International Management Code for the Safe Operation
of Ships and for Pollution Prevention (“ISM Code”), the international safety standards which govern the cruise industry.
Every crew member is well trained in the Company’s stringent safety protocols, participating in regular safety trainings,
exercises and drills onboard every one of our ships.



Our captains are experienced seafarers. We further ensure that our
captains regularly undergo rigorous training on navigation and bridge operations. To assist our captains and officers while at
sea, we have extensive navigation protocols in place. Our bridge operations are based on robust navigational procedures and risk
analysis. Our bridge teams follow pre-set voyage plans which are thoroughly reviewed and discussed by the captain and bridge team
prior to port departures and arrivals. In addition, all of our ships employ the latest state-of-the-art navigational equipment
and technology to ensure that our bridge teams have the most accurate data regarding the planned itinerary.



Prior to every cruise setting sail or upon departure, we hold a
mandatory safety drill for all guests during which important safety information is reviewed and demonstrated. We also show an extensive
safety video which runs continuously on the stateroom televisions. Our fleet is equipped with modern navigational control and fire
prevention and control systems. In recent years, our ships have continuously been upgraded and include internal and external regulatory
audits.



We have developed Safety Management Systems (“SMS”),
which establish policies, procedures, training, qualification, quality, compliance, audit and self-improvement standards for all
employees, both shipboard and shoreside. SMS also provides real-time reports and information to support the fleet and risk management
decisions. Through these systems, our senior managers, as well as ship management, can focus on consistent, high quality operation
of the fleet. Our SMS are approved and audited regularly by our classification society, Lloyds Register, and they also undergo
regular internal audits as well as annual/semiannual inspections by the U.S. Coast Guard, flag state and other port and state authorities.
We screen and train our crew to ensure crew familiarity and proficiency with the safety equipment onboard. Various safety measures
have been implemented on all of our ships and additional personnel have been appointed in our ship operations departments.



Insurance



We maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, which
are maintained in amounts related to the estimated market value of each ship. The coverage for each of the hull and machinery policies
is maintained with syndicates of insurance underwriters from the European and U.S. insurance markets.



In addition to the insurance coverage on the hull and machinery
of our ships, we seek to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage and believe that our current coverage is at appropriate levels
to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business. The insurance we carry includes:



•Protection and indemnity insurance (coverage for passenger, crew and third-party liabilities), including insurance against
risk of pollution liabilities;



•War risk insurance, including terrorist risk insurance. The terms of our war risk policies include provisions where underwriters
can give seven days’ notice to the insured that the policies will be cancelled in the event of a change of risk which is
typical for policies in the marine industry. Upon any proposed cancellation the insurer shall, before expiry of the seven day period,
submit new terms; and



•Insurance for our shoreside property and general liability risks.



We believe that all of our insurance coverage, including those noted
above, is subject to market-standard limitations, exclusions and deductible levels.



The Athens Convention Relating to the Carriage of Passengers and
Their Luggage by Sea (1974) (the “Athens Convention”) and the Protocol to the Athens Convention Relating to the Carriage
of Passengers and Their Luggage by Sea (1976) (the “1976 Protocol”) are generally applicable to passenger ships. The
U.S. has not ratified the Athens Convention; however, with limited exceptions, the 1976 Protocol may be contractually enforced
with respect to cruises that do not call at a U.S. port. The IMO Diplomatic Conference agreed to a new protocol to the Athens Convention
on November 1, 2002 (the “2002 Protocol”). The 2002 Protocol, which took effect on April 23, 2014, establishes
for the first time a level of compulsory insurance which must be maintained by passenger ship operators with a right of direct
action against the insurer. In addition, on December 31, 2012, the European Union (“EU”) Passenger Liability Regulation
became effective and requires us to carry a minimum level of financial responsibility per passenger per incident. We believe the
amount of our protection and indemnity policy coverage provides the compulsory insurance; however, no assurance can be given that
affordable and secure insurance markets will remain available to provide the level and type of coverage required.







Trademarks



Under the Norwegian brand, we own a number of registered trademarks
relating to, among other things, the names “NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE,” “FEEL FREE” (an application for this
trademark has been filed and is pending), “CRUISE LIKE A NORWEGIAN,” the names of our ships (except where trademark
applications for these have been filed and are pending), incentive programs and specialty services rendered on our ships and specialty
accommodations such as “THE HAVEN BY NORWEGIAN.” In addition, we own registered trademarks relating to the “FREESTYLE”
family of names, including, “FREESTYLE CRUISING,” “FREESTYLE DINING” and “FREESTYLE VACATION.”
We believe that these trademarks are widely recognized throughout North America, Europe and other areas of the world and have considerable
value.



Under the Oceania Cruises brand, we own a number of registered trademarks
in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions relating to, among other things, the names “OCEANIA CRUISES,” “REGATTA,”
“INSIGNIA,” “YOUR WORLD. YOUR WAY.” and the Oceania Cruises’ logo.



Under the Regent brand, we own registered trademarks relating to,
among other things, the names “SEVEN SEAS CRUISES,” “SEVEN SEAS NAVIGATOR,” “SEVEN SEAS MARINER,”
“SEVEN SEAS VOYAGER,” “SEVEN SEAS EXPLORER” and “LUXURY GOES EXPLORING.” We also claim common
law rights in trademarks and trade names used in conjunction with our ships, incentive programs, customer loyalty program and specialty
services rendered onboard our ships.



The Regent ships have been operating under the Regent brand since
2006. We entered into a trademark license agreement with Regent Hospitality Worldwide, Inc., which we amended in February 2011,
granting us the right to use the “Regent” brand family of marks. The amended trademark license agreement allows Regent
to use the Regent trade name, in conjunction with cruises, in perpetuity, subject to the terms and conditions stated in the agreement.



Regulatory Issues



Registration of Our Ships



Sixteen of the ships that we currently operate are registered in
the Bahamas. One of our ships, Pride of America, is a U.S.-flagged ship. Five of our ships are registered in the Marshall Islands.
Our ships registered in the Bahamas and the Marshall Islands are inspected at least annually pursuant to Bahamian and Marshall
Islands requirements and are subject to International laws and regulations and to various U.S. federal regulatory agencies, including,
but not limited to, the U.S. Public Health Service and the U.S. Coast Guard. Our U.S.-registered ship is subject to laws and regulations
of the U.S. federal government, including, but not limited to, the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the U.S. Coast
Guard and U.S. Department of Labor. The international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties and other legal requirements
applicable to our operations change regularly, depending on the itineraries of our ships and the ports and countries visited.



Our ships are subject to inspection by the port regulatory authorities
in the various countries that they visit. Such inspections include verification of compliance with the maritime safety, security,
environmental, customs, immigration, health and labor regulations applicable to each port as well as with international requirements.





Certain ships are also subject to periodic class surveys by ship
classification societies, including Dry-dock inspections, to verify that they have been maintained in accordance with the rules
of the classification societies and that recommended maintenance and required repairs have been satisfactorily completed. Class
certification is required for our cruise ships to be flagged in a specific country, obtain liability insurance and legally operate
as passenger cruise ships. For more information on Dry-dock work, see “Ship Operations and Cruise Infrastructure—Ship
Maintenance and Logistics.”







Health and Environment



Our ships are subject to U.S. and various international, national,
state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, that govern air emissions, waste discharge, water management
and disposal, and use and disposal of hazardous substances such as chemicals, solvents and paints. Under such laws and regulations,
we are prohibited from discharging certain materials, such as petrochemicals and plastics, into waterways. Specifically, in the
U.S., we comply with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Vessel General Permit (“VGP”).



In the U.S., we must also meet the U.S. Public Health Service’s
requirements, including ratings by inspectors from the Vessel Sanitation Program of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(“CDC”) and the FDA. We rate at the top of the range of CDC and FDA scores achieved by the major cruise lines. In addition,
the cruise industry and the U.S. Public Health Service have agreed on regulations for food, water and hygiene to assist cruise
lines in achieving the highest health and sanitation standards on cruise ships.



The U.S. Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships, which implements the
convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (“MARPOL”), provides for severe civil and criminal penalties
related to ship-generated pollution for incidents in U.S. waters within three nautical miles of land and, in some cases, within
the 200-nautical mile Exclusive Economic Zone (“EEZ”).



The U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA 90”) provides
for strict liability for water pollution caused by the discharge of oil in the 200-nautical mile EEZ of the U.S., subject to defined
monetary limits. OPA 90 requires that in order for us to operate in U.S. waters, we must have Certificates of Financial Responsibility
(“COFR”) from the U.S. Coast Guard for each ship that operates in these waters.  Our continued OPA 90 certification
signifies our ability to meet the requirements for related OPA 90 liability in the event of an oil spill or release of a hazardous
substance.



The Clean Water Act of 1972, and other laws and regulations, provide
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) with the authority to regulate commercial vessels’ incidental
discharges of ballast water, bilge water, gray water, anti-fouling paints and other substances during normal operations while a
vessel is on inland waters, within three nautical miles of land, and in designated federally protected waters. The U.S. National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System was designed to minimize pollution within U.S. territorial waters. For our affected ships,
all of the requirements are laid out in the EPA’s VGP. The VGP establishes effluent limits for 27 specific discharges incidental
to the normal operation of a vessel. In addition to these discharge and vessel specific requirements, the VGP includes requirements
for inspections, monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping.



Many coastal U.S. states have also enacted environmental regulations
that impose strict liability for removal costs and damages resulting from a discharge of oil or a release of a hazardous substance.
These laws may be more stringent than U.S. federal law and in some cases have no statutory limits of liability. The State of Alaska
enacted legislation that prohibits certain discharges in designated state waters and requires that certain discharges be monitored
to verify compliance with the established standards. The legislation also provides that repeat violators of the regulations could
be prohibited from operating in Alaskan waters.



The European Union (“EU”) has adopted a substantial
and diverse range of environmental measures aimed at improving the quality of the environment. To support the implementation and
enforcement of European environmental legislation, the EU has adopted directives on environmental liability and enforcement as
well as a recommendation providing for minimum criteria for environmental inspections. The European Commission’s (“EC”)
strategy is to reduce atmospheric emissions from seagoing ships. The EC goes beyond the IMO requirement by introducing legislation
to use low sulfur (less than 0.1%) marine gas oil in EU ports.



MARPOL specifies requirements for Emission Control Areas (“ECAs”)
with stricter limitations on sulfur emissions in these areas. Ships operating in the Baltic Sea ECA, the North Sea/English Channel
ECA, the North American ECA and the U.S. Caribbean Sea ECA are required to use fuel with a sulfur content of no more than 0.1%
or use approved alternative emission reduction methods. Other additional ECAs may also be established in the future, with areas
around Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, the Mediterranean Sea and Mexico being considered.



The MARPOL global limit on fuel sulfur content outside of ECAs will
be reduced to 0.5% from the current 3.5% global limit after January 2020. The 0.5% global standard will be subject to an IMO
review by 2018 to determine the availability of fuel oil to comply with this standard. This review will take into account the global
fuel oil market supply and demand, an analysis of trends in fuel oil markets and any other relevant issues. If the IMO determines
that there is insufficient fuel to comply with the 0.5% standard in January 2020, then this requirement will be delayed until
January 2025, at the latest. However, the European Union Parliament and Council have set January 2020 as the final date for
the 0.5% fuel sulfur limit to enter force, regardless of the 2018 IMO review results. This European Union Sulfur Directive will
cover European Union Member State territorial waters that are within 12 nautical miles of their coastline.



Recently adopted amendments to MARPOL will make the Baltic Sea a
“Special Area” where sewage discharges from passenger ships will be prohibited. Stricter discharge restrictions are
currently in effect for new passenger ships whose construction began after January 1, 2016, and for existing passenger ships starting
in 2018. The underlying requirements may impact our operations unless suitable port waste facilities are available, or new technologies
for onboard waste treatment are developed. Accordingly, the cost of complying with these requirements is not determinable at this
time; however, we do not expect it to be material.



In addition to the existing legal requirements, we are committed
to helping to preserve the environment, because a clean, unspoiled environment is a key element that attracts guests to our ships.
Furthermore, NCL (Bahmas) Ltd. and NCL (America) LLC are certified







under the International Organization for Standardization’s
14001 Standard. This voluntary standard sets requirements for establishment and implementation of a comprehensive environmental
management system which we have adopted for our operations. Currently we operate under an Environmental Management System that
is incorporated into the Company’s SMS.



If we violate or fail to comply with environmental laws, regulations
or treaties, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other
expenditures to comply with changing environmental laws, regulations and treaties. Any fines or other sanctions for violation or
failure to comply with environmental requirements or any expenditures required to comply with environmental requirements could
have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, cash flow or financial condition.



Permits for Glacier Bay, Alaska



In connection with certain Alaska cruise operations, Norwegian relies
on concession permits from the U.S. National Park Service to operate its ships in Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve. Norwegian
currently holds a concession permit allowing for 22 calls per summer cruising season through September 30, 2019. However,
there can be no assurance that such permit will be renewed when necessary or that regulations relating to the renewal of such permit
will remain unchanged in the future.



Security and Safety



The IMO has adopted safety standards as part of SOLAS, which apply
to all of our ships. SOLAS establishes requirements for vessel design, structural features, construction methods and materials,
refurbishment standards, life-saving equipment, fire protection and detection, safe management and operation and security in order
to help ensure the safety and security of our guests and crew. All of our crew undergo regular safety training exercises that meet
all international and national maritime regulations.



SOLAS requires that all cruise ships are certified as having safety
procedures that comply with the requirements of the International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution
Prevention (“ISM Code”). We have obtained certificates certifying that our ships are in compliance with the ISM Code.
Each such certificate is granted for a five-year period and is subject to periodic verification.



The SOLAS requirements are amended and extended by the IMO from
time to time. For example, the International Port and Ship Facility Code (“ISPS Code”), was adopted by the IMO in December
2002 and provides for measures strengthening maritime security and places new requirements on governments, port authorities and
shipping companies in relation to security issues on ships and in ports.



In addition to the requirements of the ISPS Code, the U.S. Congress
enacted the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”), which implements a number of security measures at
ports in the U.S. including measures that apply to ships registered outside the U.S. and docking at ports in the U.S. The U.S.
Coast Guard has published MTSA regulations that require a security plan for every ship entering the territorial waters of the U.S.,
provide for identification requirements for ships entering such waters and establish various procedures for the identification
of crew members on such ships. The Transportation Workers Identification Credential is a federal requirement for accessibility
into and onto U.S. ports and U.S.-flagged ships.



Amendments to SOLAS required that ships constructed in accordance
with pre-1974 SOLAS requirements install automatic sprinkler systems. IMO adopted an amendment to SOLAS which requires partial
bulkheads on stateroom balconies to be of non-combustible construction. The SOLAS regulation implemented Long-Range Identification
and Tracking. All of our ships are in compliance with the requirements of SOLAS as amended and/or as applicable to the keel-laying
date.



Maritime-Labor



In 2006, the International Labor Organization (“ILO”),
an agency of the United Nations that develops and oversees international labor standards, adopted a new Consolidated Maritime Labor
Convention (“MLC 2006”). MLC 2006 contains a comprehensive set of global standards based on those that are already
found in 68 maritime labor Conventions and Recommendations adopted by the ILO since 1920. MLC 2006 includes a broad range of requirements,
such as a broader definition of a seafarer, minimum age of seafarers, medical certificates, recruitment practices, training, repatriation,
food, recreational facilities, health and welfare, hours of work and rest, accommodations, wages and entitlements. MLC 2006 added
requirements not previously in effect, in the areas of occupational safety and health. MLC 2006 became effective in certain countries
commencing August 2013. The Standard of Training Certification and Watch Keeping for Seafarers (“STCW”), as amended,
establishes minimum standards relating to training, certification and watchkeeping for our seafarers.



Financial Requirements



The Federal Maritime Commission (“FMC”) requires evidence
of financial responsibility for those offering transportation on passenger ships operating out of U.S. ports to indemnify passengers
in the event of non-performance of the transportation. Accordingly, each of our three brands are required to maintain a $30.0 million
third-party performance guarantee in respect of liabilities for non-performance of transportation and other obligations to passengers.
The guarantee requirements are subject to additional consumer price index-based adjustments. Also, each of our brands has a legal
requirement to maintain a security guarantee based on cruise business originated from the U.K. and, accordingly, has established
separate bonds with the Association of British Travel Agents currently valued at approximately British Pound Sterling 6.5 million
in the aggregate. We also are required to establish







financial responsibility by other jurisdictions to meet liability
in the event of non-performance of our obligations to passengers from those jurisdictions.



From time to time, various other regulatory and legislative changes
have been or may in the future be proposed that may have an effect on our operations in the U.S. and the cruise industry in general.



For information regarding risks associated with our compliance with
legal and regulatory requirements, see Part I Item 1A-Risk Factors in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the risk factor
titled “We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, which could adversely
affect our operations and any changes in the current laws and regulations could lead to increased costs or decreased revenue.”



Taxation



U.S. Income Taxation



The following discussion is based upon current provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative rulings and court decisions, all of which
are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. Changes in these authorities may cause the tax consequences to vary substantially
from the consequences described below.



Exemption of International Shipping Income under Section 883
of the Code



Under Section 883 of the Code (“Section 883”) and the
related regulations, a foreign corporation will be exempt from U.S. federal income taxation on its U.S.-source income derived from
the international operation of ships (“shipping income”) if: (a) it is organized in a qualified foreign country, which
is one that grants an “equivalent exemption” from tax to corporations organized in the U.S. in respect of each category
of shipping income for which exemption is being claimed under Section 883; and (b) either: (1) more than 50% of the value of its
stock is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by qualified shareholders, which includes individuals who are “residents”
of a qualified foreign country; (2) one or more classes of its stock representing, in the aggregate, more than 50% of the combined
voting power and value of all classes of its stock are “primarily and regularly traded on one or more established securities
markets” in a qualified foreign country or in the U.S. (the “publicly traded test”); or (3) it is a “controlled
foreign corporation” (a “CFC”) for more than half of the taxable year and more than 50% of its stock is owned
by qualified U.S. persons for more than half of the taxable year (the “CFC test”). In addition, U.S. Treasury Regulations
require a foreign corporation and certain direct and indirect shareholders to satisfy detailed substantiation and reporting requirements.



NCLH is incorporated in Bermuda, a qualified foreign country which
grants an equivalent exemption, and NCLH meets the publicly traded test because its ordinary shares are primarily and regularly
traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, which is considered to be an established securities market in the U.S. Therefore, we
believe that NCLH qualifies for the benefits of Section 883.



We believe and have taken the position that substantially all of
NCLH’s income, including the income of its ship-owning subsidiaries, is properly categorized as shipping income, and that
we do not have a material amount of non-qualifying income. It is possible, however, that the IRS interpretation of shipping income
could differ from ours and that a much larger percentage of our income does not qualify (or will not qualify) as shipping income.
Moreover, the exemption for shipping income is only available for years in which we will satisfy complex tests under Section 883.
There are factual circumstances beyond our control, including changes in the direct and indirect owners of NCLH’s ordinary
shares, including as a result of the Acquisition of Prestige, which could cause NCLH or its subsidiaries to lose the benefit of
the exemption under Section 883. Further, any changes in our operations could significantly increase our exposure to taxation on
shipping income, and we can give no assurances on this matter.



Under certain circumstances, changes in the identity, residence
or holdings of NCLH’s direct or indirect shareholders could cause NCLH’s ordinary shares not to be regularly traded
on an established securities market within the meaning of the regulations under Section 883. Therefore, as a precautionary matter,
NCLH has provided protections in its bye-laws to reduce the risk of such changes impacting our ability to meet the publicly traded
test by prohibiting any person, other than the Sponsors, from owning, directly, indirectly or constructively, more than 4.9% of
NCLH’s ordinary shares unless such ownership is approved by NCLH’s Board of Directors (the “4.9% limit”).
Any outstanding shares held in excess of the 4.9% limit will be transferred to and held in a trust.



For U.S. federal income tax purposes, Regent and its non-U.S. subsidiaries
are disregarded as entities separate from their immediate foreign parent (PCH) and Oceania Cruises is treated as a corporation.
For 2015, both Regent and Oceania Cruises relied on NCLH’s ability to meet the requirements necessary to qualify for the
benefits of Section 883 as discussed above. For 2014, both Regent and Oceania Cruises relied on PCH’s ability to meet the
requirements necessary to qualify for the benefits of Section 883. PCH is organized as a company in Panama, which grants an equivalent
tax exemption to U.S. corporations, and is thus classified as a qualified foreign country for purposes of Section 883. PCH was
classified as a CFC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2014, and we believe PCH met the ownership and substantiation requirements
of the CFC test under the regulations for that year.



Taxation of International Shipping Income Where Section 883 is
Inapplicable



Unless exempt from U.S. federal income taxation, a foreign corporation
is subject to U.S. federal income tax in respect of its “shipping income” that is derived from sources within the U.S.
If we fail to qualify for the exemption under Section 883 in respect of our U.S.-sourced shipping income, or if the provision was
repealed, then we will be subject to taxation in the U.S. on such income.







Generally, “shipping income” is any income that is derived
from the use of vessels, from the hiring or leasing of vessels for use on a time, voyage or Bareboat Charter basis or from the
performance of services directly related to those uses. For these purposes, shipping income attributable to transportation that
begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the U.S., which we refer to as “U.S.- source shipping income,”
will be considered to be 50% derived from sources within the U.S.



If we do not qualify for exemption under Section 883, or if the
provision was repealed, then any U.S.-sourced shipping income or any other income that is considered to be effectively connected
income would be subject to federal corporate income taxation on a net basis (generally at a 35% rate) and state and local taxes,
and our effectively connected earnings and profits may also be subject to an additional branch profits tax of 30%, unless a lower
treaty rate applies (the “Net Tax Regime”). Our U.S.-source shipping income is considered effectively connected income
if we have, or are considered to have, a fixed place of business in the U.S. involved in the earning of U.S.-source shipping income,
and substantially all of our U.S.-source shipping income is attributable to regularly scheduled transportation, such as the operation
of a vessel that follows a published schedule with repeated sailings at regular intervals between the same points for voyages that
begin or end in the U.S.



If we do not have a fixed place of business in the U.S. or substantially
all of our income is not derived from regularly scheduled transportation, the income will generally not be considered to be effectively
connected income. In that case, we would be subject to a special 4% tax on our U.S.-source shipping income (the “4% Tax Regime”).



Other U.S. Taxation



U.S. Treasury Regulations list several items of income which are
not considered to be incidental to the international operation of ships and, to the extent derived from U.S. sources, are subject
to U.S. federal income taxes under the Net Tax Regime discussed above. Income items considered non-incidental to the international
operation of ships include income from the sale of single-day cruises, shore excursions, air and other transportation, and pre-
and post-cruise land packages. We believe that substantially all of our income currently derived from the international operation
of ships is shipping income.



Income from U.S.-flagged Operation under NCL America



Income derived from our U.S.-flagged operation generally will be
subject to U.S. corporate income taxes both at the federal and state levels.  We expect that such income will not be subject
to U.S. branch profits tax nor a U.S. dividend withholding tax under the U.S.-U.K. Income Tax Treaty.



U.K. Income Taxation



As a result of a restructuring, NCLH and NCLC became tax residents
of the U.K. and are subject to normal U.K. corporation tax.



U.S. Taxation of Gain on Sale of Vessels



Gains from the sale of vessels should generally also be exempt from
tax under Section 883 provided NCLH qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 in respect of our shipping income. If, however,
our gain does not qualify for exemption under Section 883, or if the provision was repealed, then such gain could be subject to
either the Net Tax Regime or the 4% Tax Regime.



Certain State, Local and Non-U.S. Tax Matters



We may be subject to state, local and non-U.S. income or non-income
taxes in various jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business, own property or reside. We may be required to file
tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. Our state, local or non-U.S. tax treatment may not conform to the U.S. federal
income tax treatment discussed above. We may be required to pay non-U.S. taxes on dispositions of foreign property, or operations
involving foreign property may give rise to non-U.S. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial.



Changes in Tax Laws



The various tax regimes to which we are currently subject result
in a relatively low effective tax rate on our worldwide income. These tax regimes, however, are subject to change, possibly with
retroactive effect. For example, legislation has been proposed in the past that would eliminate the benefits of the exemption from
U.S. federal income tax under Section 883 and subject all or a portion of our shipping income to taxation in the U.S. Moreover,
we may become subject to new tax regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded by current or
future law including exemption of branch profits and dividend withholding taxes under the U.S.-U.K. Income Tax Treaty on income
derived in respect of our U.S.-flagged operation.



Employees



As of December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 2,800 full-time
employees worldwide in our shoreside operations and approximately 23,700 shipboard employees. Regent and Oceania Cruises’
ships also utilize a third party to provide additional hotel and restaurant employees onboard. We refer you to “Risk Factors—Amendments
to the collective bargaining agreements for crew members of our fleet and other employee relation issues may materially adversely
affect our financial results” for more information regarding our relationships with union employees and our collective bargaining
agreements that are currently in place.







Ports and Facilities





Segment Reporting



We have concluded that our business has a single reportable segment.
Each brand, Oceania Cruises, Regent and Norwegian constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available
and management regularly reviews the operating results and, therefore, each brand is considered an operating segment. Our operating
segments have similar economic and qualitative characteristics, including similar margins and similar products and services;
therefore, we aggregate all of the operating segments into one reportable segment.



Although we sell cruises on an international basis, our passenger
ticket revenue is primarily attributed to U.S.-sourced guests who make reservations in the U.S. Revenue attributable to
U.S.-sourced guests was 75%, 73 % and 74% for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. No other individual
country’s revenues exceeded 10% in any of our last three years. Substantially all of our long–lived assets are
located outside of the U.S. and consist primarily of our ships. We have 16 ships with Bahamas registry with a carrying value of
$7.2 billion and $6.4 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We have five ships with Marshall Island
registry with a carrying value of $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014. We also have one ship with U.S. registry with
a carrying value of $0.3 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 and one ship with Bermuda registry with a carrying value of
$0.08 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.



Available Information



We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any document we file with
the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330
for further information on the public reference room. Our SEC filings are also available to the public at the SEC’s website
at http://www.sec.gov.



We also maintain an Internet site at http://www.nclhltdinvestor.com.
We will, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports if applicable, make available such
reports free of charge on our website.Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not incorporated
into this annual report on Form 10-K.



Executive Officers



The following table sets forth certain information regarding NCLH’s
executive officers as of February 20, 2016.



NameAgePositionFrank J. Del Rio61Director, President and Chief Executive OfficerWendy A. Beck51Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerAndrew Stuart52President and Chief Operating Officer, Norwegian brandJason M. Montague42President and Chief Operating Officer, Regent and Oceania Cruises brandsT. Robin Lindsay58Executive Vice President, Vessel OperationsHarry Sommer48Executive Vice President, International Business DevelopmentFaye L. Ashby44Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting OfficerDaniel S. Farkas47Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary



All the executive officers listed above hold their offices at the
pleasure of our Board of Directors, subject to rights under any applicable employment agreements. There are no family relationships
between or among any directors and executive officers.



Frank J. Del Riohas served as President and Chief Executive
Officer of NCLH since January 2015 and became a director of NCLH in August 2015. Mr. Del Rio founded Oceania Cruises in October
2002 and has served as Chief Executive Officer of Prestige or its predecessor since October 2002. Based in Miami, Florida, Mr.
Del Rio has been responsible for the financial and strategic development of Prestige. Between 2003 and 2007, Mr. Del Rio was instrumental
in the development and growth of Oceania Cruises. Prior to founding Oceania Cruises, Mr. Del Rio played a vital role in the development
of Renaissance Cruises, serving as Co-Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1993 to
April 2001. Mr. Del Rio holds a B.S. in Accounting from the University of Florida and is a Certified Public Accountant (inactive
license).







Wendy A. Beckhas served as the Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since September 2010. Prior to joining us, Ms. Beck served as Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of Domino’s Pizza, Inc. from May 2008 to August 2010. Prior to that she served as Senior Vice
President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Whataburger Restaurants, LP from May 2004 through April 2008 and served as
their Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer from August 2001 through April 2004. Ms. Beck was also employed at Checkers Drive-In
Restaurants, Inc. from 1993 through July 2001, serving as their Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from 2000
through July 2001. Ms. Beck currently sits on the board of directors and chairs the audit committee for At Home Corporation. Ms.
Beck holds a B.S. in Accounting from the University of South Florida and is a Certified Public Accountant (inactive license).



Andrew Stuarthas served as the President and Chief Operating
Officer for the Norwegian brand since March 2015. He was previously our Executive Vice President, Global Sales and Passenger Services
from November 2008 until March 2015. From April 2008 through September 2008, he held the position of Executive Vice President and
Chief Product Officer. From September 2003 through March 2008, he served as Executive Vice President of Marketing, Sales and Passenger
Services. Prior to that, he was our Senior Vice President of Passenger Services as well as Vice President of Sales Planning. He
joined us in August 1988 in our London office holding various Sales and Marketing positions before relocating to our headquarters
in Miami. Mr. Stuart earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Catering Administration from Bournemouth University, United Kingdom.



Jason M. Montaguehas served as President and Chief Operating
Officer for the Regent and Oceania Cruises brands since December 2014. Prior to NCLH’s Acquisition of Prestige, Mr. Montague
served as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Prestige from September 2010 until NCLH’s Acquisition of
Prestige in November 2014. Mr. Montague worked on the integration of NCLH and Prestige as the Executive Vice President and Chief
Integration Officer of NCLH. He was instrumental in launching Oceania Cruises in 2002 and is widely regarded as one of its co-founders.
Mr. Montague served as Oceania Cruises’ Vice President and Treasurer from 2004 to 2007 and Senior Vice President of Finance
from 2008 to 2010. Mr. Montague has seen Oceania Cruises through the purchase of its initial R-class ships, the equity investment
by Apollo Global Management, LLC, the acquisition and integration of Regent Seven Seas Cruises, the financing and delivery of Oceania
Cruises’ Marina and Riviera newbuilds and the recent Acquisition of Prestige by NCLH. Prior to joining Oceania Cruises, Mr.
Montague operated a successful consulting practice focused on strategic planning and development of small to medium-sized companies.
Previously, he held the position of Vice President Finance for Alton Entertainment Corporation, a brand equity marketer who was
majority owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies. Mr. Montague holds a BBA in Accounting from the University of Miami.



T. Robin Lindsayhas served as Executive Vice President,
Vessel Operations for NCLH since January 2015. From November 2014 until January 2015, Mr. Lindsay served as Executive Vice President,
Newbuild for Prestige. Prior to the Acquisition of Prestige, he served as the Executive Vice President of Vessel Operations for
Prestige from April 2009 until November 2014 and oversaw all marine, technical and hotel operations. Mr. Lindsay was instrumental
in the extensive refurbishment and launch of Oceania Cruises’ Regatta, Insignia and Nautica and the development of the Marina
and Riviera. Mr. Lindsay possesses a substantial amount of experience in the cruise industry and has overseen the design and construction
of many of the industry’s most acclaimed cruise ships. Prior to joining Oceania Cruises in 2003, Mr. Lindsay was the Senior
Vice President of Vessel Operations at Silversea Cruises and, prior to that, Vice President of Operations at Radisson Seven Seas
Cruises. Mr. Lindsay earned his B.S. degree from Louisiana Tech University.



Harry Sommerhas served as Executive Vice President, International
Business Development for NCLH since May 2015. From February 2015 until May 2015, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief
Integration Officer for NCLH. Mr. Sommer previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Prestige from
October 2013 until February 2015, Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Information Officer of Prestige from September 2011
until October 2013 and Senior Vice President, Accounting, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of Prestige from August 2009
until August 2011. Prior to joining Prestige, Mr. Sommer was the co-founder and President of Luxury Cruise Center, a high-end travel
agency and prior to that held various marketing and finance roles at Renaissance Cruises. Mr. Sommer holds an MBA from Pace University
and a BBA from Baruch College.



Faye L. Ashbyhas served as Senior Vice President and Chief
Accounting Officer of NCLH since February 2016. She joined NCLH as Controller in November 2014 after the Acquisition of Prestige.
From January 2012 to November 2014, Ms. Ashby served as Controller for Prestige, where she managed and developed the Accounting
and External Financial Reporting teams. From March 2010 to December 2011, Ms. Ashby held the position of Senior Director of Financial
Reporting with Prestige, where she started the Financial Reporting Department and was responsible for the preparation of annual
financial statements, coordination of external audits and researching technical accounting issues. Before joining Prestige, Ms.
Ashby was a Senior Manager at the international public accounting firm of Deloitte. She has a MBA and BBA with concentrations in
accounting from the University of Miami and is a Certified Public Accountant in Florida and New York.



Daniel S. Farkashas served as Senior Vice President and
General Counsel of the Company since February 2008 and as Assistant Secretary of the Company since 2013. Since Mr. Farkas joined
us in January 2004, he has held the positions of Secretary from 2010 to 2013, Vice President and Assistant General Counsel from
2005 to 2008, and Assistant General Counsel from 2004 to 2005. Mr. Farkas was formerly a partner in the Miami offices of the law
firm Mase and Gassenheimer specializing in maritime litigation. Before that he was an Assistant State Attorney for the Eleventh
Judicial Circuit in and for Miami-Dade County, Florida. Mr. Farkas currently serves on the board of directors of Camillus House,
the Cruise Industry Charitable Foundation and the Steamship Mutual







Underwriting Association Limited. Mr. Farkas earned a Bachelor of
Arts degree Cum Laude with honors in English and American Literature from Brandeis University and a Juris Doctorate degree from
the University of Miami.



