10-K


y65666e10vk.htm

ROCKWELL AUTOMATION, INC.

ROCKWELL AUTOMATION, INC.

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended September 30,
2002. Commission file number 1-12383

Rockwell Automation, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code:

(414) 212-5299 (Office of the
Secretary)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).     Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of registrant’s
voting stock held by non-affiliates of registrant on
October 31, 2002 was approximately $3.1 billion.

185,899,678 shares of registrant’s Common
Stock, par value $1 per share, were outstanding on
October 31, 2002.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain information contained in the Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners of registrant to
be held on February 5, 2003 is incorporated by reference
into Part III hereof.

PART I

Item 1.

Business.

Rockwell Automation, Inc. (the Company or
Rockwell Automation), formerly named Rockwell International
Corporation, a Delaware corporation, is a leading global
provider of industrial automation power, control and information
products and services. The Company was incorporated in 1996 and
is the successor to the former Rockwell International
Corporation as a result of a tax-free reorganization completed
on December 6, 1996, pursuant to which the Company divested
its former aerospace and defense businesses (the A&D
Business) to The Boeing Company (Boeing). The predecessor
corporation was incorporated in 1928. On September 30,
1997, the Company completed the spinoff of its automotive
component systems business (the Automotive Business) into an
independent, separately traded, publicly held company named
Meritor Automotive, Inc. (Meritor). On July 7, 2000,
Meritor and Arvin Industries, Inc. merged to form ArvinMeritor,
Inc. (ArvinMeritor). On December 31, 1998, the Company
completed the spinoff of its semiconductor systems business
(Semiconductor Systems) into an independent, separately traded,
publicly held company named Conexant Systems, Inc. (Conexant).
On June 29, 2001, the Company completed the spinoff of its
Rockwell Collins avionics and communications business into an
independent, separately traded, publicly held company named
Rockwell Collins, Inc. (Rockwell Collins). As used herein, the
terms the “Company” or “Rockwell Automation”
include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context
indicates otherwise. Information included in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K refers to the Company’s continuing
businesses unless otherwise indicated.

Where reference is made in any Item of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K to information under specific
captions in Item 7,

Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

(MD&A)

, or in Item 8,

Consolidated
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(the
Financial Statements), or to information in the Proxy Statement
for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners of the Company to be held
on February 5, 2003 (the 2003 Proxy Statement), such
information shall be deemed to be incorporated therein by such
reference.

The Company is organized based upon products and
services and has three operating segments: Control Systems,
Power Systems and FirstPoint Contact (formerly Electronic
Commerce). Financial information with respect to the
Company’s business segments, including their contributions
to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years in
the period ended September 30, 2002, is contained under the
caption

Results of Operations

in

MD&A

on
page 17 hereof, and in Note 20 of the

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements

in the Financial
Statements.

Control Systems

Control Systems is Rockwell Automation’s
largest operating segment with 2002 sales of $3.1 billion
(79 percent of total sales) and approximately 17,300
employees at September 30, 2002. Control Systems is a
supplier of industrial automation products, systems, software
and services focused on helping customers control and improve
manufacturing processes and is divided into three units: the
Components and Packaged Applications Group (CPAG), the
Automation Control and Information Group (ACIG) and Global
Manufacturing Solutions (GMS).

CPAG produces industrial components, power
control and motor management products and packaged and
engineered products. It supplies both electro-mechanical and
solid-state products, including motor starters and contactors,
push buttons and signaling devices, termination and protection
devices, relays and timers, discrete and condition sensors and
variable speed drives. CPAG’s sales account for
approximately 40 percent of Control Systems sales.

ACIG’s products include programmable logic
controllers (PLCs). PLCs are used to automate the control and
monitoring of industrial plants and processes and typically
consist of a computer processor and input/ output devices. The
Company’s Logix

TM

integrated architecture
integrates multiple types of control disciplines including
discrete, process, drive and motion control across various
factory floor operating systems. ACIG also produces distributed
I/O (input/ output) platforms, high performance rotary and
linear motion


control systems, electronic operator interface
devices, plant floor industrial computers and machine safety
components. ACIG’s sales account for approximately
40 percent of Control Systems sales.

GMS provides multi-vendor automation and
information systems and solutions which help customers improve
their manufacturing operations. Solutions include multi-vendor
customer support, training, software, consulting and
implementation, asset management, and process batch
manufacturing solutions. GMS’s sales account for
approximately 20 percent of Control Systems sales.

Control Systems has competitors which, depending
on the product or service involved, range from large diversified
businesses that sell products outside of automation, to smaller
companies specializing in niche products and services. Major
competitors include Emerson Electric Co., General Electric
Company, Schneider Electric SA and Siemens AG. Factors that
affect Control Systems’ competitive posture are its broad
product portfolio and scope of solutions, knowledge of customer
applications, large installed base, established distribution
network, quality of products and services and global presence.

Control Systems’ products are marketed
primarily under the Allen-Bradley, Rockwell Automation, and
Rockwell Software brand names. Major markets served include
consumer products, transportation, petrochemical and mining,
metals and forest products.

In North America, Control Systems’ products
are sold primarily through independent distributors that do not
carry products that compete with Allen-Bradley products. Large
systems and service offerings are sold principally through a
direct sales force, though opportunities are sometimes sourced
through distributors. Product sales outside the United States
occur through a combination of direct sales forces and
distributors.

Sales in the United States accounted for
60 percent of Control Systems sales.

Power Systems

The Power Systems operating segment recorded 2002
sales of $716 million (18 percent of total sales) and
had approximately 4,100 employees at September 30, 2002.
Power Systems is divided into two units: The Mechanical Power
Transmission Business (Mechanical) and The Industrial Motor and
Drive Business (Electrical).

Mechanical’s products include mounted
bearings, gear reducers, standard mechanical drives, conveyor
pulleys, couplings, bushings, clutches and motor brakes.
Electrical’s products include industrial and engineered
motors and standard AC and DC drives. In addition, Power Systems
provides product repair, motor and mechanical maintenance
solutions, plant maintenance, training and consulting services
to OEM’s, end users and distributors.

Mechanical’s products are marketed primarily
under the Dodge brand name while Electrical’s products are
marketed primarily under the Reliance Electric brand name. Major
markets served include mining, air handling, aggregates,
environmental, forestry, food/ beverage, petrochemicals, metals,
and unit handling.

Power Systems has competitors which, depending on
the product involved, range from large diversified businesses
that sell products outside of automation, to smaller companies
specializing in niche products and services. Major competitors
include ABB Ltd., Baldor Electric Company, Emerson Electric Co.,
General Electric Company, Regal-Beloit Corporation and Siemens
AG. Factors that affect Power Systems’ competitive posture
are product quality, installed base, and its established
distributor network.

Mechanical’s products are sold primarily
through distributors while Electrical’s products are sold
primarily through a direct sales force.

Sales in the United States accounted for
88 percent of Power Systems sales.

FirstPoint Contact

The FirstPoint Contact operating segment recorded
2002 sales of $133 million (3 percent of total sales) and
had approximately 500 employees at September 30, 2002.
FirstPoint Contact provides customer contact center solutions
that support multiple channels (voice, e-mail, web, wireless)
through open interaction


infrastructure. Products include automatic call
distributors, computer telephony integration software,
information collection, reporting, queuing and management
systems, call center systems and consulting services.

Major markets served include telecommunications,
financial, transportation and retail. FirstPoint Contact sells
directly through its own sales force and increasingly through
distribution channels.

FirstPoint Contact faces competition from other
companies selling both hardware and software in the customer
contact market ranging from major multinationals to small
companies specializing in niche products and services. Major
competitors include Apropos Technology, Inc., Aspect
Communications Corporation, Avaya, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc. and
Nortel Networks Corporation. Factors that affect FirstPoint
Contact’s competitive position include product quality and
reliability, and reputation.

Sales in the United States accounted for
73 percent of FirstPoint Contact’s sales.

Acquisitions and Divestitures

The Company regularly considers the acquisition
or development of new businesses and reviews the prospects of
its existing businesses to determine whether any should be
modified, sold or otherwise discontinued.

Acquisitions

During 2002, the Company’s Control Systems
segment acquired all of the stock of Tesch GmbH (Tesch), an
electronic products and safety relay manufacturer; all of the
stock of Propack Data GmbH (Propack), a provider of
manufacturing information systems for the pharmaceutical and
other regulated industries; the assets of the controller
division of Samsung Electronics Company Limited’s
Mechatronics business (the Controller Division); and the
engineering services and system integration assets of SPEL,
spol. s.r.o. (SPEL). The total cost of these acquisitions was
approximately $71 million. The acquisition of Tesch is
expected to expand the Company’s machine safety product and
research and development capabilities. The acquisition of
Propack is expected to broaden the Company’s position in
the pharmaceuticals market, enhance the Company’s process
solutions business, and enable the Company to expand its reach
into the manufacturing information markets. The acquisition of
the Controller Division is expected to expand the Company’s
existing operations in Korea, further the Company’s design
and product development capabilities and support future
commercial and operational expansion in the Asia Pacific region.
The acquisition of SPEL is expected to accelerate the
establishment of the Company as a complete solution provider in
Central Europe; it also strategically locates the Company in a
region with future growth opportunities.

During 2001, the Company’s Control Systems
segment acquired the batch software and services business of
Sequencia Corporation. The acquisition expanded Control
Systems’ portfolio of Manufacturing BusinessWare solutions
into the batch application market.

During 2000, the Company’s Control Systems
segment acquired Entek IRD International Corporation (Entek), a
provider of machinery condition monitoring solutions, and
acquired substantially all the assets and assumed certain
liabilities of Systems Modeling Corporation (SMC), a developer
of shop floor scheduling, simulation and modeling software. The
total cost of these acquisitions was approximately
$70 million. The acquisition of Entek has increased
Rockwell Automation’s ability to provide value-added
services that reduce customers’ downtime and maintenance
costs at their manufacturing facilities. The acquisition of SMC
complements Control Systems’ Manufacturing BusinessWare
strategy by providing additional capabilities.

Divestitures

On June 29, 2001, the Company completed the
spinoff of its Rockwell Collins avionics and communications
business into an independent, separately traded, publicly held
company by distributing all of the outstanding shares of
Rockwell Collins to the Company’s shareowners on the basis
of one Rockwell Collins share for each outstanding Rockwell
Automation share. At the time of the spinoff, Rockwell Collins
made a special payment to the Company of $300 million.
Following the spinoff, the Company and Rockwell


Collins each have owned 50 percent of
Rockwell Scientific Company LLC (RSC) (formerly a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company known as Rockwell Science Center).

The results of operations for Rockwell Collins
for 2001 and 2000 have been presented in the Company’s
Consolidated Statement of Operations included in the Financial
Statements as income from discontinued operations.

Additional information relating to acquisitions
and divestitures is contained in

MD&A

on page 21
hereof and in Notes 2 and 14 of the

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements

in the Financial
Statements.

Geographic Information

The Company’s principal markets outside the
United States are in Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy,
Mexico, China, Japan, Brazil, Australia, France and Switzerland.
In addition to normal business risks, operations outside the
United States are subject to other risks including, among other
factors, political, economic and social environments,
governmental laws and regulations, and currency revaluations and
fluctuations.

Selected financial information by major
geographic area for each of the three years in the period ended
September 30, 2002 is contained in Note 20 of the

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements

in the Financial
Statements.

Research and Development

The Company’s research and development
spending is as follows:

Customer-sponsored research and development was
$61 million in each of 2001 and 2000. Customer-sponsored
research and development was not material in 2002 and related
primarily to the Company’s formerly wholly-owned (now
50 percent owned) subsidiary, Rockwell Science Center in
2001 and 2000.

Employees

At September 30, 2002, the Company had
approximately 22,000 employees. Approximately 15,000 were
employed in the United States, and, of these employees, about
8 percent were represented by various local or national
unions.

Raw Materials and Supplies

Raw materials essential to the conduct of each of
the Company’s business segments generally are available at
competitive prices. Many items of equipment and components used
in the production of the Company’s products are purchased
from others. Although the Company has a broad base of suppliers
and subcontractors, it is dependent upon the ability of its
suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality
specifications and delivery schedules. During 2000, the Company
experienced a shortage of certain electronic components which
had an adverse effect on its ability to make timely deliveries
and resulted in increased material costs. If such a shortage
were to occur again, it could have an adverse effect on the
operating results of the Company.


Backlog

The Company’s total order backlog was
approximately $495 million at September 30, 2002 and
approximately $520 million at September 30, 2001.
Backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations
for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of the
Company’s products.

Environmental Protection
Requirements

Information with respect to the effect on the
Company and its manufacturing operations of compliance with
environmental protection requirements and resolution of
environmental claims is contained in Note 19 of the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

in the
Financial Statements. See also Item 3,

Legal
Proceedings

, on pages 6-8 hereof.

Patents, Licenses and Trademarks

Numerous patents and patent applications are
owned or licensed by the Company and utilized in its activities
and manufacturing operations. Various claims of patent
infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been
made to the Company. Management believes that none of these
claims will have a material adverse effect on the financial
condition of the Company. See Item 3,

Legal
Proceedings

, on pages 6-8 hereof. While in the
aggregate the Company’s patents and licenses are considered
important in the operation of its business, management does not
consider them of such importance that loss or termination of any
one of them would materially affect the Company’s business
or financial condition.

The Company’s name and its registered
trademark “Rockwell Automation” is important to each
of its business segments. In addition, the Company owns other
important trademarks applicable to only certain of its products,
such as “Allen-Bradley” and “A-B” for
electronic controls and systems for industrial automation,
“Reliance Electric” for electric motors and drives and
“Dodge” for mechanical power transmission products.

Seasonality

None of the Company’s business segments is
seasonal.

Available Information

The Company maintains an Internet site at
http://www.rockwellautomation.com. The Company’s annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports
filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as the annual
report to shareowners and other information, are available free
of charge on this site. The Company’s Internet site and the
information contained therein or connected thereto are not
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.


Item 2.

Properties.

At September 30, 2002, the Company operated
62 plants and research and development facilities,
principally in North America and Europe. The Company also had
approximately 280 sales offices, warehouses and service
centers. The aggregate floor space of the Company’s
facilities was approximately 16 million square feet. Of
this floor space, approximately 60 percent was owned by the
Company and 40 percent was leased. Manufacturing space
occupied approximately 8 million square feet with the
Control Systems segment occupying approximately 5 million
square feet and Power Systems occupying the remaining
approximately 3 million square feet. At September 30,
2002, approximately 1 million square feet of floor space
was not in use, approximately 90 percent of which was in
owned facilities.

There are no major encumbrances (other than
financing arrangements which in the aggregate are not material)
on any of the Company’s plants or equipment. In the opinion
of management, the Company’s properties have been well
maintained, are in sound operating condition and contain all
equipment and facilities necessary to operate at present levels.

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings.

Rocky Flats Plant.

On January 30, 1990, a civil
action was brought in the United States District Court for the
District of Colorado against the Company and another former
operator of the Rocky Flats Plant (the Plant), Golden, Colorado,
operated from 1975 through December 31, l989 by the Company
for the Department of Energy (DOE). The action alleges the
improper production, handling and disposal of radioactive and
other hazardous substances, constituting, among other things,
violations of various environmental, health and safety laws and
regulations, and misrepresentation and concealment of the facts
relating thereto. The plaintiffs, who purportedly represent two
classes, sought compensatory damages of $250 million for
diminution in value of real estate and other economic loss; the
creation of a fund of $150 million to finance medical
monitoring and surveillance services; exemplary damages of
$300 million; CERCLA response costs in an undetermined
amount; attorneys’ fees; an injunction; and other proper
relief. On February 13, 1991, the court granted certain of
the motions of the defendants to dismiss the case. The
plaintiffs subsequently filed a new complaint, and on
November 26, 1991, the court granted in part a renewed
motion to dismiss. The remaining portion of the case is pending
before the court. On October 8, 1993, the court certified
separate medical monitoring and property value classes.
Effective August 1, 1996, the DOE assumed control of the
defense of the contractor defendants, including the Company, in
the action. Beginning on that date, the costs of the
Company’s defense, which had previously been reimbursed to
the Company by the DOE, have been and are being paid directly by
the DOE. The Company believes that it is entitled under
applicable law and its contract with the DOE to be indemnified
for all costs and any liability associated with this action.

On November 13, 1990, the Company was served
with a summons and complaint in another civil action brought
against the Company in the same court by James Stone, claiming
to act in the name of the United States, alleging violations of
the U.S. False Claims Act in connection with the Company’s
operation of the Plant (and seeking treble damages and
forfeitures) as well as a personal cause of action for alleged
wrongful termination of employment. On August 8, 1991, the
court dismissed the personal cause of action. On
December 6, 1995, the DOE notified the Company that it
would no longer reimburse costs incurred by the Company in
defense of the action. On November 19, 1996, the court
granted the Department of Justice leave to intervene in the case
on the government’s behalf. On April 1, 1999, a jury
awarded the plaintiffs approximately $1.4 million in
damages. On May 18, 1999, the court entered judgment
against the Company for approximately $4.2 million,
trebling the jury’s award as required by the False Claims
Act, and imposing a civil penalty of $15,000. If the judgment is
affirmed on appeal, Mr. Stone may also be entitled to an
award of attorney’s fees but the court refused to consider
the matter until appeals from the judgment have been exhausted.
On September 24, 2001, a panel of the 10th Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment. On November 2,
2001, the Company filed a petition for rehearing with the Court
of Appeals seeking reconsideration of that portion of the
decision holding that the relator, Mr. Stone, is entitled
to an award of attorneys’ fees, and on March 4, 2002,
the Court of Appeals remanded the case to the trial court for
the limited purpose of making findings of fact and conclusions
of law pertaining to Mr. Stone’s relator status.
Management believes that an outcome adverse to the Company will
not have a material effect on the


Company’s business or financial condition.
The Company believes that it is entitled under applicable law
and its contract with the DOE to be indemnified for all costs
and any liability associated with this action, and intends to
file a claim with the DOE seeking reimbursement thereof at the
conclusion of the litigation.

On January 8, 1991, the Company filed suit
in the United States Claims Court against the DOE, seeking
recovery of $6.5 million of award fees to which the Company
alleges it is entitled under the terms of its contract with the
DOE for management and operation of the Plant during the period
October 1, 1988 through September 30, 1989. On
July 17, 1996, the government filed an amended answer and
counterclaim against the Company alleging violations of the
U.S. False Claims Act previously asserted in the civil
action described in the preceding paragraph. On March 20,
1997, the court stayed the case pending disposition of the civil
action described in the preceding paragraph. On August 30,
1999, the court continued the stay pending appeal in that civil
action. The Company believes the government’s counterclaim
is without merit, and believes it is entitled under applicable
law and its contract with the DOE to be indemnified for any
liability associated with the counterclaim.

On September 28, 1995, the Company filed an
appeal with the Department of Energy Board of Contract Appeals
(“EBCA”) from DOE’s denial of claims totaling
$10 million for costs incurred in relation to a 1989
federal grand jury investigation of possible environmental
crimes at the DOE’s Rocky Flats plant. During pre-trial
proceedings, the EBCA bifurcated proceedings so as to consider
the Company’s entitlement to reimbursement of costs of the
sort claimed before determining the amount of any award. On
October 31, 2001, the EBCA ruled that the Company was
entitled to reimbursement of the types of costs claimed. On
March 11, 2002, the DOE appealed the EBCA’s decision
to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
If the Court of Appeals affirms the EBCA’s decision on
entitlement, the matter will be remanded to the EBCA for further
proceedings to determine the amount of the DOE’s liability
to the Company.

Hanford Nuclear
Reservation.

On August 6 and
August 9, 1990, civil actions were filed in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Washington
against the Company and the present and other former operators
of the DOE’s Hanford Nuclear Reservation (Hanford),
Hanford, Washington. The Company operated part of Hanford for
the DOE from 1977 through June 1987. Both actions purport to be
brought on behalf of various classes of persons and numerous
individual plaintiffs who resided, worked, owned or leased real
property, or operated businesses, at or near Hanford or downwind
or downriver from Hanford, at any time since 1944. The actions
allege the improper handling and disposal of radioactive and
other hazardous substances and assert various statutory and
common law claims. The relief sought includes unspecified
compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries and for
economic losses, and various injunctive and other equitable
relief.

Other cases asserting similar claims (the
follow-on claims) on behalf of the same and similarly situated
individuals and groups have been filed from time to time since
August 1990 and may continue to be filed from time to time in
the future. These actions and the follow-on claims have been
(and any additional follow-on claims that may be filed are
expected to be) consolidated in the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of Washington under the name

In re
Hanford Nuclear Reservation Litigation

. Because the claims
and classes of claimants included in the actions described in
the preceding paragraph are so broadly defined, the follow-on
claims filed as of October 31, 2002 have not altered, and
possible future follow-on claims are not expected to alter, in
any material respect the scope of the litigation.

Effective October 1, 1994, the DOE assumed
control of the defense of certain of the contractor defendants
(including the Company) in the

In re Hanford Nuclear
Reservation Litigation

. Beginning on that date, the costs of
the Company’s defense, which had previously been reimbursed
to the Company by the DOE, have been and are being paid directly
by the DOE. The Company believes it is entitled under applicable
law and its contracts with the DOE to be indemnified for all
costs and any liability associated with these actions.

Russellville.

On
June 24, 1996, judgment was entered against the Company in
a civil action in the Circuit Court of Logan County, Kentucky on
a jury verdict awarding $8 million in compensatory and
$210 million in punitive damages for property damage. The
action had been brought August 12, 1993 by owners of flood
plain real property near Russellville, Kentucky allegedly
damaged by polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) discharged from a
plant owned and operated by the Company’s Measurement &
Flow


Control Division prior to its divestiture in
March 1989. On January 14, 2000, the Kentucky Court of
Appeals reversed the lower court’s judgment and directed
entry of judgment in the Company’s favor on all claims as a
matter of law. On May 16, 2002, the Kentucky Supreme Court
affirmed the Court of Appeals’ exclusion of certain of the
plaintiffs’ evidence but reversed the judgment of dismissal
on the ground that the proper remedy is a new trial on
plaintiffs’ claims, but only after and to the extent
required following disposition of numerous other issues that
were before the Court of Appeals but not resolved in its
original decision. The case was remanded to the Court of Appeals
for further proceedings.

On March 24, 1997, the Circuit Court of
Franklin County, Kentucky in

Commonwealth of Kentucky,
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet vs.
Rockwell

, an action filed in 1986 seeking remediation of PCB
contamination resulting from unpermitted discharges of PCBs from
the Company’s former Russellville, Kentucky plant, entered
judgment establishing PCB cleanup levels for the former plant
site and certain offsite property and ordering additional
characterization of possible contamination in the Mud River and
its flood plain. The Court deferred any decision on the
imposition of fines and penalties pending implementation of an
appropriate remediation program. On August 13, 1999, the
Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court’s judgment, a
ruling that the Supreme Court of the State of Kentucky has let
stand. The Company has been proceeding with remediation and
characterization efforts consistent with the trial Court’s
ruling.

Other.

In July 1995,
a federal grand jury impaneled by the United States District
Court for the Central District of California began an
investigation into a July 1994 explosion at the Santa Susana
Field Laboratory operated by the Company’s former
Rocketdyne Division in which two scientists were killed and a
technician was injured. On April 11, 1996, pursuant to an
agreement between the Company and the United States Attorney for
the Central District of California, the Company entered a plea
of guilty to two counts of unpermitted disposal of hazardous
waste and one count of unpermitted storage of hazardous waste,
all of which are felony violations of the Resource Conservation
and Recovery Act, and paid a fine of $6.5 million to settle
potential federal criminal claims arising out of the federal
government’s investigation. Further civil sanctions in an
amount not in excess of $250,000 could be imposed on the current
owner of the facility, Boeing, for which the Company would be
required to indemnify Boeing.

Various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings
have been or may be instituted or asserted against the Company
relating to the conduct of its business, including those
pertaining to product liability, environmental, safety and
health, intellectual property, employment and contract matters.
Although the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with
certainty and some lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be
disposed of unfavorably to the Company, management believes the
disposition of matters which are pending or asserted will not
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business or
financial condition.


Item 4.

Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

No matters were submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fourth quarter of 2002.

Item 4a.

Executive
Officers of the Company.

The name, age, office and position held with the
Company and principal occupations and employment during the past
five years of each of the executive officers of the Company as
of October 31, 2002 are as follows:


There are no family relationships, as defined,
between any of the above executive officers. No officer of the
Company was selected pursuant to any arrangement or
understanding between the officer and any person other than the
Company. All executive officers are elected annually.


PART II

Item 5.

Market
for the Company’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters.

The principal market on which the Company’s
common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. The
Company’s common stock is also traded on the Pacific Stock
Exchange and The London Stock Exchange. On October 31,
2002, there were 43,628 shareowners of record of the
Company’s common stock.

The following table sets forth the high and low
sales price of the Company’s common stock on the New York
Stock Exchange — Composite Transactions reporting
system during each quarter of the Company’s fiscal years
ended September 30, 2002 and 2001:

(1)

The high and low sales prices prior to the fourth
    quarter of 2001 reflect the Company’s stock price prior to
    the spinoff of its former Rockwell Collins business.

On June 29, 2001, each Rockwell Automation
shareowner received one share of Rockwell Collins common stock
for each share of Rockwell Automation common stock owned. At
September 30, 2002, Rockwell Collins common stock had a
value of $21.94 per share. Rockwell Automation’s current
stock price does not reflect the value of the Rockwell Collins
shares.

The declaration and payment of dividends by the
Company is at the sole discretion of the Company’s board of
directors. The following table sets forth the aggregate cash
dividends per common share (paid quarterly) during each of the
Company’s last three fiscal years:

(1)

Prior to the spinoff of Rockwell Collins, the
    Company paid quarterly cash dividends, which, on an annual
    basis, equaled $1.02 per share. Since the spinoff of Rockwell
    Collins, the Company has paid quarterly cash dividends which, on
    an annual basis, equal $0.66 per share. Per share dividend
    amounts indicated above do not include dividends paid on the
    shares of Rockwell Collins received on June 29, 2001 by
    Rockwell Automation shareowners.

On February 6, 2002, the Company granted
nonqualified options to purchase 7,000 shares of common stock of
the Company at an exercise price of $18.05 per share and paid a
portion of the annual retainer fees for fiscal 2002 for a
non-employee director by issuing 998 shares of restricted stock
to a new director, Kenneth F. Yontz. The options vest in three
equal annual installments beginning on February 6, 2003.
The grant of these options and issuance of these shares was
exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act
of 1933 pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof.


Item 6.

Selected
Financial Data.

The following sets forth selected consolidated
financial data of the Company’s continuing operations. The
data should be read in conjunction with

MD&A

and the
Financial Statements. The consolidated statement of operations
data for each of the five years in the period ended
September 30, 2002, the related consolidated balance sheet
data and other data have been derived from the audited
consolidated financial statements of the Company.


(f)

Certain amounts have been reclassified from cost
    of sales to sales as a result of the adoption of Emerging Issues
    Task Force No. 01-14,

Income Statement Characterization
    of Reimbursement Received for ’Out of Pocket’ Expenses
    Incurred

(EITF 01-14).

(g)

Effective October 1, 2001, the Company
    adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

(SFAS 142). As a result of adopting SFAS 142, the
    Company no longer amortizes goodwill and certain other
    intangible assets that have been deemed to have an indefinite
    useful life, resulting in a decrease in amortization expense in
    2002. In addition, the Company recorded pre-tax charges of
    $56 million related to a trademark impairment and
    $73 million related to goodwill impairment in connection
    with the adoption of SFAS 142. These charges have been
    recorded as the cumulative effect of accounting change in the
    amount of $129 million ($108 million after tax, or
    58 cents per diluted share).


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates

The consolidated financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States which require the Company to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial
statements and revenues and expenses during the periods
reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The
Company believes the following are the critical accounting
policies which could have the most significant effect on the
Company’s reported results and require subjective or
complex judgments by management.

Revenue
Recognition

Sales are generally recorded when all of the
following have occurred: an agreement of sale exists, product
delivery and acceptance has occurred or services have been
rendered, pricing is fixed or determinable, and collection is
reasonably assured. Management is required to make judgments
about whether the pricing is fixed or determinable and whether
or not collectibility is reasonably assured.

The Company records accruals for sales rebates to
distributors at the time of shipment based upon historical
experience. The liability recorded for the Company’s
primary distributor rebate program was $36 million at
September 30, 2002 and $35 million at
September 30, 2001. In addition, the Company has a
liability for rebates and sales incentives to commercial
customers and other distributors of $32 million at
September 30, 2002 and $28 million at September 30,
2001.

Allowance for
Doubtful Accounts

The Company records allowances for doubtful
accounts based on customer-specific analysis and general matters
such as current assessments of past due balances and economic
conditions. Additional allowances for doubtful accounts may be
required if there is deterioration in past due balances, if
economic conditions are less favorable than the Company has
anticipated or for customer-specific circumstances, such as
financial difficulty. During 2002, the Company recorded an
allowance of approximately $9 million to fully reserve a
receivable due to the deterioration in the financial condition
of one of its independent distributors. The allowance for
doubtful accounts was $45 million at September 30,
2002 and $43 million at September 30, 2001.

Excess and
Obsolete Inventory

The Company records allowances for excess and
obsolete inventory based on historical and estimated future
demand and market conditions. Additional inventory allowances
may be required if future demand or market conditions are less
favorable than the Company has estimated. The allowance for
excess and obsolete inventory was $53 million at
September 30, 2002 and $50 million at
September 30, 2001.

Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets

The Company evaluates the recoverability of the
carrying amount of long-lived assets whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
may not be fully recoverable. The Company evaluates the
recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives annually or more frequently if events or
circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. The
Company uses judgment when applying the impairment rules to
determine when an impairment test is necessary. Factors the
Company considers which could trigger an impairment review
include significant underperformance relative to historical or
forecasted operating results, a significant decrease in the
market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or
manner in which an asset is used, and significant negative
industry or economic trends.

Impairment losses are measured as the amount by
which the carrying value of an asset exceeds its estimated fair
value. The Company is required to make estimates of its future
cash flows related to the asset subject to review. These
estimates require assumptions about demand for the
Company’s products and


services, future market conditions and
technological developments. Other assumptions include
determining the discount rate and future growth rates. During
2002, the Company recorded pre-tax impairment charges of
$129 million ($108 million after-tax) in connection
with the adoption of SFAS 142. Additional information
regarding the impairment charges is contained in Note 3 of
the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

in the
Financial Statements.

Product
Warranty Obligations

The Company records a liability for product
warranty obligations at the time of sale to a customer based
upon historical warranty experience. The Company also records a
liability for specific warranty matters when they become known
and are reasonably estimable. Additional provision for product
warranty obligations may be required if actual product
performance is less favorable than anticipated. The liability
for product warranty obligations was $31 million at
September 30, 2002 and $34 million at
September 30, 2001.

Retirement
Benefits

Pension
Benefits

Pension costs and obligations are actuarially
determined and are affected by assumptions including discount
rate, the expected rate of return on plan assets and assumed
annual rate of compensation increase for plan employees, among
other factors. Changes in discount rate and differences from
actual results for each assumption will affect the amount of
pension expense recognized in future periods. For fiscal 2002,
based on an annual review of actuarial assumptions, the Company
reduced the long-term expected rate of return on plan assets
from 9.75 percent to 9.0 percent and the discount rate
from 8.0 percent to 7.5 percent for the pension plan
covering most of its employees. All other factors being equal,
these changes resulted in incremental pension expense in 2002 of
approximately $12 million. For fiscal year 2003, the
Company is assuming an expected rate of return on plan assets of
8.5 percent and a discount rate of 7.0 percent. All
other factors being equal, and assuming actual experience is
consistent with the actuarial assumptions, the Company expects
fiscal year 2003 pension expense to increase by approximately
$15 million compared to fiscal 2002 including the
recognition of actuarial losses related primarily to the
accumulated difference between actual and expected returns or
pension plan assets. In addition, while not required to
contribute any amount to the Company’s primary qualified
pension plan trust covering the majority of its employees, the
Company may choose to contribute up to the maximum allowable tax
deductible contribution of approximately $50 million during
fiscal 2003. Additional information regarding pension benefits
is available in Note 12 of the

Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statement

in the Financial Statements.

Other
Postretirement Benefits

The costs and obligation for postretirement
benefits other than pension are also actuarially determined and
are affected by assumptions including the discount rate and
expected future increase in per capita costs of covered
postretirement health care benefits. Changes in the discount
rate and differences between actual and assumed per capita
health care costs may affect the recorded amount of the expense
in future periods. Effective October 1, 2002, the Company
amended its U.S. postretirement health care benefit program in
order to mitigate the increasing cost of postretirement health
care services. The effect of this change will be to reduce the
benefit obligation by $62 million. Net periodic benefit
cost in 2003 will be approximately $32 million, which is
approximately 20 percent lower than what the cost would
have been without implementing this change. Additional
information regarding postretirement benefits is available in
Note 12 of the

Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements

in the Financial Statements.

Self-Insurance
Liabilities

The Company’s self-insurance programs
include primarily product liability and workers’
compensation. For product liability and workers’
compensation, the Company self-insures from the first dollar of
loss up to specified retention levels. Eligible losses in excess
of self-insurance retention levels and up to stated limits of
liability are covered by policies purchased from third-party
insurers. The aggregate self-insurance liability is


estimated using the Company’s claim
experience and risk exposure levels for the periods being
valued. Adjustments to the self-insured liabilities may be
required to reflect emerging claims experience and other factors
such as inflationary trends or jury awards. The liability for
these self-insurance programs was $48 million at
September 30, 2002 and $46 million at
September 30, 2001.

Litigation,
Claims and Contingencies

The Company records environmental liabilities
based on estimates for known environmental remediation exposures
utilizing information received from independent environmental
consultants. The liabilities include accruals for sites owned by
the Company and third-party sites where the Company was
determined to be a potentially responsible party. At third-party
sites where more than one potentially responsible party has been
identified, the Company records a liability for its estimated
allocable share of costs related to its involvement with the
site as well as an estimated allocable share of costs related to
the involvement of insolvent or unidentified parties. At
environmental sites in which the Company is the only responsible
party, a liability is recorded for the total estimated costs of
remediation. Future expenditures for environmental remediation
obligations are not discounted to their present value.
Environmental liability estimates may be affected by changing
determinations of what constitutes an environmental exposure or
an acceptable level of cleanup. To the extent that remediation
procedures change or the financial condition of other
potentially responsible parties is adversely affected, the
estimate of the Company’s environmental liabilities may
change. The liability for environmental matters, net of related
receivables was $28 million at September 30, 2002.
Additional information regarding litigation, claims and
contingencies is included in Note 19 of the

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements

in the Financial
Statements.

Income
Taxes

The Company records a liability for potential tax
assessments based on its estimate of the potential exposure. The
liability for potential tax assessments may be affected by new
laws and new interpretations of laws and rulings by tax
authorities, among other reasons. Due to the subjectivity and
complex nature of the underlying issues, actual payments or
assessments may differ from estimates. To the extent the
Company’s estimates differ from actual payments or
assessments, income tax expense is adjusted. During 2002, the
Company resolved certain matters from previous years resulting
in a $48 million reduction of its income tax provision.
During 2001, the Company reached agreement with various taxing
authorities on refund claims related to certain prior years and
recorded $22 million as a reduction of its income tax
provision. Additional information regarding income taxes is
included in Note 17 of the

Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements

in the Financial Statements.

The Company has recorded a valuation allowance of
$23 million at September 30, 2002 for the majority of
its deferred tax assets related to net operating loss
carryforwards, capital loss carryforwards and state tax credit
carryforwards. The valuation allowance is based on an evaluation
of the uncertainty of the amounts of net operating loss
carryforwards, capital loss carryforwards and state tax credit
carryforwards that are expected to be realized. An increase to
income would result if the Company determines it could utilize
more net operating loss carryforwards, capital loss
carryforwards and state tax credit carryforwards than originally
expected.

At the end of each interim reporting period, the
Company estimates the effective tax rate expected to be
applicable for the full fiscal year. The estimated effective tax
rate contemplates the expected jurisdiction where income is
earned (e.g. United States compared to non-United States) as
well as tax planning strategies. If the actual results are
different from the Company’s estimates, adjustments to the
effective tax rate may be required in the period such
determination is made.


Results of Operations

Summary of
Results of Operations


Demand for the Company’s products is largely
driven by trends in industrial spending. Sales are affected by
the level of industrial production activity, customers’ new
product introductions, upgrades and expansions of existing
manufacturing facilities and the creation of new manufacturing
facilities. Due to recent weak business conditions, especially
in the manufacturing economy, manufacturers have been operating
at historically low levels of plant capacity utilization. This
condition results in the tendency to defer significant amounts
of capital investment until the environment improves. Capacity
utilization in the United States, as published by the Federal
Reserve, decreased from 80.2 percent in December 2000 to
75.9 percent in September 2002. As a result, demand for the
Company’s products has deteriorated, the results of which
are reflected in the operating results for 2002 and 2001.

2002 Compared
to 2001

Sales were $3,909 million in 2002 compared
to $4,285 million in 2001. Income from continuing
operations before accounting change in 2002 was
$226 million, or $1.20 per diluted share, compared to
$125 million, or 68 cents per diluted share, in 2001. The
2002 results from continuing operations include a reduction in
the income tax provision of $48 million, or 26 cents per
diluted share, from the favorable resolution of certain tax
matters and income of $9 million ($7 million after tax
or four cents per diluted share) from the favorable settlement
of intellectual property matters. In 2001, income from
continuing operations before accounting change would have been
$198 million, or $1.07 per diluted share, excluding
amortization of goodwill and certain other intangible assets of
$56 million ($47 million after tax, or 25 cents per
diluted share), as well as special charges of $91 million
($60 million after tax, or 32 cents per diluted share) for
costs associated with realignment actions and income of
$18 million ($12 million after tax, or six cents per
diluted share) resulting from the favorable settlement of an
intellectual property matter and a reduction in the income tax
provision of $22 million, or 12 cents per diluted share,
from the favorable resolution of certain tax matters.

Control
Systems

Control Systems’ sales in 2002 were
$3,060 million compared to $3,327 million in 2001. The
decrease was primarily the result of continued depressed market
conditions for automation products. Sales declined
9 percent in the United States in 2002 compared to 2001
while non-United States shipments (which exclude the effect of
foreign currency translation) declined 4 percent compared
to 2001 primarily as a result of a 9 percent decline in
Europe. Excluding the effect of acquisitions, non-United States
shipments declined 6 percent compared to 2001, including an
11 percent decrease in Europe. Despite the overall sales
decline, sales of Logix™ integrated architecture products
increased 31 percent. Sales in the Global Manufacturing
Solutions business increased 6 percent over 2001 driven by
increases in process and engineering solutions sales and the
acquisition of Propack.

Segment operating earnings were $324 million
in 2002 compared to $425 million in 2001. The decrease was
primarily due to lower volume, especially in higher margin CPAG
and ACIG products. In addition, Control Systems continued to
invest in the growth of its Global Manufacturing Solutions
business. Control Systems’ return on sales in 2002 was
10.6 percent compared to 12.8 percent in 2001.

Power
Systems

Power Systems’ sales in 2002 were
$716 million compared to $748 million in 2001. The
decline was the result of lower demand due to depressed market
conditions. Segment operating earnings increased to
$53 million in 2002 from $39 million in 2001. The
improvement was the result of cost savings from actions taken in
the fourth quarter of 2001 and ongoing initiatives to improve
productivity. Power Systems’ return on sales was
7.4 percent in 2002 compared to 5.2 percent in 2001.

FirstPoint
Contact

FirstPoint Contact’s sales in 2002 were
$133 million compared to $150 million in 2001. The
decline was primarily due to decreased customer capital spending
for telecommunications products. Segment operating


earnings were $4 million in 2002 compared to
$7 million in 2001. Included in 2002 results are charges of
$4 million related to severance and an asset impairment.

General
Corporate — Net

General corporate expenses were $57 million
in 2002 compared to $53 million in 2001. General corporate
expenses included income from the settlement of intellectual
property matters of $9 million in 2002 and $18 million in
2001 and a gain on the sale of real estate of $5 million in
2001. Also in 2001, general corporate expenses included
$3 million of costs associated with the spinoff of Rockwell
Collins. Excluding these items, general corporate expenses
decreased from $73 million in 2001 to $66 million in
2002, primarily as a result of lower corporate spending.

Interest
Expense

Interest expense decreased to $66 million in
2002 from $83 million in 2001. The decrease was due to
lower weighted-average borrowings and lower commercial paper
borrowing rates in 2002. The Company used commercial paper in
the second quarter of 2001 to fund an acquisition by Rockwell
Collins. In the third quarter of 2001, the Company received a
special payment of $300 million from Rockwell Collins which
was used to repay commercial paper borrowings.

2001 Compared
to 2000

Sales were $4,285 million in 2001 compared
to $4,661 million in 2000. Income from continuing
operations in 2001 was $125 million, or 68 cents per
diluted share, compared to $344 million, or $1.81 per
diluted share, in 2000. The 2001 results from continuing
operations included special charges of $91 million
($60 million after tax, or 32 cents per diluted share) for
costs associated with realignment actions which were partially
offset by an $18 million gain ($12 million after tax,
or six cents per diluted share) resulting from the favorable
settlement of an intellectual property matter.

Control
Systems

Control Systems’ sales in 2001 were
$3,327 million compared to $3,641 million in 2000,
reflecting principally depressed market conditions for
automation products in the United States during 2001. Non-United
States shipments (which exclude the effect of foreign currency
translation) were higher and included increases of six percent
in Europe, 13 percent in Asia Pacific and 13 percent
in Latin America. Sales in 2001 were reduced by approximately
$96 million due to a stronger dollar in 2001, particularly
against the euro, relative to the foreign currency exchange
rates in 2000.

Segment operating earnings were $425 million
in 2001 compared to $636 million in 2000. The decrease was
due to lower volume and costs resulting from planned lower
capacity utilization. Control Systems’ return on sales in
2001 was 12.8 percent compared to 17.5 percent in 2000.

Power
Systems

Power Systems’ sales in 2001 were
$748 million compared to $803 million in 2000, with an
increase at the electrical business more than offset by lower
volume in mechanical products as distributors continued to pare
inventories. Segment operating earnings in 2001 were
$39 million compared to $69 million in 2000 primarily
due to lower volume and unfavorable product mix. Power
Systems’ return on sales was 5.2 percent in 2001
compared to 8.6 percent in 2000.

FirstPoint
Contact

Sales at FirstPoint Contact were
$150 million in 2001 compared to $168 million in 2000. The
decrease was due to depressed market conditions in the
telecommunications sector. Segment operating earnings were
$7 million in 2001 compared to an operating loss of
$16 million in 2000. The increase was due to the


successful implementation of cost saving
initiatives and the absence of approximately $10 million in
charges related to such initiatives which are reflected in the
results for 2000.

General
Corporate — Net

General corporate expenses in 2001 included
income of $18 million resulting from the favorable
settlement of an intellectual property matter, $3 million
of costs associated with the spinoff of Rockwell Collins and a
$5 million gain on the sale of real estate. General
corporate expenses in 2000 included a $32 million gain on
the sale of real estate and $28 million of income resulting
from the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company demutualization.

Special
Charges

In 2001, the Company recorded charges of
$91 million ($60 million after tax, or 32 cents per
diluted share) for costs associated with a realignment of its
business operations to reduce costs in response to the continued
decline in demand in industrial automation markets. Total cash
expenditures related to the realignment actions will be
approximately $50 million, of which $43 million had
been spent as of September 30, 2002. The special charges
are related to the business segments as follows: Control
Systems, $76 million; Power Systems, $5 million; and
Corporate, $10 million. See Note 13, Special Charges,
in the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

in the
Financial Statements.

Accounting
Change

Effective October 1, 2001, the Company
adopted SFAS 142. This standard requires that companies no
longer amortize goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets,
such as trademarks. This standard also requires that companies
evaluate goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for
impairment. In 2002, as a result of this analysis, the Company
recorded charges of $56 million ($35 million
after-tax, or 19 cents per diluted share) related to a trademark
impairment and $73 million (before and after-tax, or 39
cents per diluted share) related to goodwill impairment at a
Power Systems reporting unit.

Discontinued
Operations

Discontinued operations in 2002 relate to a net
benefit of $3 million for the resolution of certain
obligations related to two discontinued businesses.

On June 29, 2001, the Company completed the
spinoff of its Rockwell Collins avionics and communications
business into an independent, separately traded, publicly held
company. In connection with the spinoff, all outstanding shares
of Rockwell Collins were distributed to Rockwell Automation
shareowners on the basis of one Rockwell Collins share for each
outstanding Rockwell Automation share. At the time of the
spinoff, Rockwell Collins made a special payment to the Company
of $300 million. The Company recorded a decrease to
shareowner’s equity for the net assets of Rockwell Collins
as of June 29, 2001 of approximately $1.2 billion
(including $300 million of debt incurred to make the
special payment to the Company). Included in 2001 income from
discontinued operations was $21 million of costs related to
the spinoff.

Rockwell
Scientific Company LLC

Since June 29, 2001, the Company and
Rockwell Collins each have owned 50 percent of Rockwell
Scientific Company LLC (RSC) (formerly known as Rockwell Science
Center). Results of Rockwell Science Center are included in
continuing operations through the third quarter of 2001. Sales
of Rockwell Science Center for the first nine months of 2001
were $60 million compared to $49 million for the full
year in 2000. The increase was primarily due to higher sales to
the United States Government. Segment operating earnings
decreased to $3 million for the first nine months of 2001
compared to $7 million for the full year in 2000 due to
lower royalty income. Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2001,
the Company’s 50 percent ownership interest in RSC is
accounted for using the equity method, and the Company’s
proportional share of RSC’s earnings or losses are included
in general corporate-net.


Acquisitions

In September 2002, the Company’s Control
Systems segment acquired the engineering services and system
integration assets of SPEL, spol. s.r.o. The acquisition is
expected to accelerate the establishment of the Company as a
complete solution provider in Central Europe. This acquisition
also strategically locates the Company in a region with future
growth opportunities.

In May 2002, the Company’s Control Systems
segment acquired the assets of the controller division of
Samsung Electronics Company Limited’s Mechatronics business
(the Controller Division). The Company combined its existing
Korean business with the Controller Division to form a new
business that operates under the name Rockwell Samsung
Automation and creates technologies for the design and
development of automation products. The acquisition is expected
to expand the Company’s existing operations in Korea,
further the Company’s design and product development
capabilities and support future commercial and operational
expansion in the Asia Pacific region.

In March 2002, the Company’s Control Systems
segment acquired all of the stock of Propack Data GmbH
(Propack), a provider of manufacturing information systems for
the pharmaceutical and other regulated industries. The
acquisition is expected to broaden the Company’s position
in the pharmaceuticals market, enhance the Company’s
process solutions business and enable the Company to expand its
reach into the manufacturing information markets.

In January 2002, the Company’s Control
Systems segment acquired all of the stock of Tesch GmbH, an
electronic products and safety relay manufacturer, expanding the
Company’s machine safety product and research and
development capabilities.

The aggregate cash purchase price of the
businesses acquired in 2002, of which the majority related to
the acquisition of Propack, was approximately $71 million.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been recorded at
fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated
fair value of the acquired tangible and intangible assets was
recorded as goodwill.

During 2001, the Company’s Control Systems
segment acquired the batch software and services business of
Sequencia Corporation. The total cost of the acquisition was
$6 million, which was allocated to intangible assets,
including developed technology and assembled workforce, and the
excess of the purchase price over the amounts assigned to
intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. The acquisition
expanded Control Systems’ portfolio of Manufacturing
BusinessWare Solutions into the batch application market.

During 2000, the Company’s Control Systems
segment acquired Entek IRD International Corporation (Entek) and
acquired substantially all the assets and assumed certain
liabilities of Systems Modeling Corporation (SMC). Entek is a
provider of machinery condition monitoring solutions and its
acquisition has increased Rockwell Automation’s ability to
provide value-added services that reduce customers’
downtime and maintenance costs at their manufacturing
facilities. SMC is a developer of shop floor scheduling,
simulation and modeling software. The acquisition of SMC
complements Control Systems’ Manufacturing BusinessWare
strategy by providing additional capabilities. The total cost of
acquisitions in 2000 was $70 million, of which
$61 million was allocated to intangible assets, including
developed technology, and the excess of the purchase price over
the amounts assigned to tangible and intangible assets was
recorded as goodwill.

Income
Taxes

During 2002, the Company resolved certain tax
matters for the period of 1995-1999, resulting in a
$48 million reduction in its income tax provision.
Excluding the effect of this reduction, the effective income tax
rate for 2002 was 23.7 percent. See Note 17 in the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

in the
Financial Statements for a reconciliation of the United States
statutory rate to the effective income tax rate. Management
believes that the effective income tax rate in 2003 will be
approximately 30 percent.

The Company anticipates filing in 2003 a federal
research and experimentation tax credit refund claim of
approximately $100 million for the years 1997 through 2001.
The claim will be subject to audit by the Internal


Revenue Service. The ultimate potential tax
benefit of this claim, if any, is not currently known and
therefore no benefit has been recognized for financial reporting
purposes.

Outlook for

Indicators of the future direction of the global
manufacturing economy are mixed, though the Company’s end
markets have generally stabilized. While the Company does not
expect further deterioration in the markets it serves, the
Company is managing its cost structure tightly, and first
quarter results will include expenses for targeted cost
reduction actions. These actions, combined with normal quarterly
revenue trends, are expected to result in first quarter earnings
per share in the range of 16 to 18 cents. For the full year, the
Company will deliver earnings growth of at least 15 percent
(to $1.05 per share), even if the current soft business
conditions persist. If business conditions improve modestly, the
Company expects to achieve earnings growth of 25 percent
(to $1.15 per share).

Financial Condition

The Company’s cash flows from operating,
investing and financing activities, as reflected in the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, are summarized in the
following tables (in millions):

The following table summarizes free cash flow for
the Company. The Company’s definition of free cash flow,
which is an internal performance measurement, may be different
from definitions used by other companies.

Cash provided by operating activities was
$476 million in 2002 compared to $335 million in 2001.
Free cash flow in 2002 was $372 million, after a $24
million contribution made to the Company’s qualified
pension plan trust related to the spinoff of Rockwell Collins
and $12 million in contributions to non-United States
pension trusts, compared to free cash flow of $178 million
in 2001. The higher cash generation in 2002 was driven primarily
by working capital improvements and a decrease in capital
expenditures.

Cash used for investing activities was
$175 million in 2002 compared to cash provided by investing
activities of $153 million in 2001. Investing activities in
2001 included a special payment of $300 million received
from Rockwell Collins in connection with the spinoff on
June 29, 2001. Capital expenditures in 2002 were
$104 million compared to $157 million in 2001. Capital
expenditures in 2003 are expected to be $125 to
$150 million, but will ultimately depend on business
conditions.

In addition to internally-generated cash, the
Company has access to existing financing sources, including the
public debt markets and unsecured credit facilities with various
banks. The Company’s debt-to-total-capital ratio was
36.6 percent at September 30, 2002 and
36.5 percent at September 30, 2001.

During 2000, the Board of Directors approved a
$250 million stock repurchase program. The Company spent
approximately $63 million to purchase approximately
1.7 million shares during 2001 in connection with this
program, but purchased no shares in 2002. At September 30,
2002, there was approximately $104 million


remaining on the Company’s current
$250 million stock repurchase program. The Company
anticipates repurchasing stock in 2003, the amount of which will
ultimately depend on business conditions.

Future significant uses of cash are expected to
include capital expenditures, dividends to shareowners,
acquisitions, repurchases of common stock in connection with the
Company’s stock repurchase program and may include
contributions to the qualified pension plan trust. Additional
information regarding pension contributions is contained in

MD&A

on page 15 hereof. In addition, the
Company’s $150 million of 6.8% notes mature in
April 2003. It is expected that each of these future uses of
cash will be funded by existing cash balances, cash generated by
operating activities and commercial paper borrowings; although
the funding may include a new issue of debt or other securities.

The Company elects to utilize commercial paper
markets as its principal source of short-term financing. As of
September 30, 2002, the Company had no commercial paper
borrowings outstanding. During the year ended September 30,
2002, the Company had weighted average borrowings of
$68 million under its commercial paper program at interest
rates ranging from 1.8 percent to 2.7 percent.

As of September 30, 2002, the Company had
$1 billion of unsecured committed credit facilities
available to support its commercial paper borrowings. On
October 29, 2002, the Company terminated these credit
facilities and entered into new credit facilities with various
banks for $337.5 million expiring in October 2003 and
$337.5 million expiring in October 2005. Prior to October
2003, the Company expects to enter into a new credit facility
similar to the credit facility expiring at that time in an
amount deemed sufficient to support its operations. Pursuant to
the terms of the new credit facilities, the Company’s debt
to capital ratio shall not exceed 60 percent. Outstanding
commercial paper balances reduce the amount of available
borrowings under the unsecured committed credit facilities.

The Company’s current commercial paper
credit ratings are as follows: Moody’s (P-2),
Standard & Poor’s (A-1) and Fitch (F-1).
Should the Company’s access to the commercial paper market
be adversely affected due to a change in market conditions or
otherwise, the Company would expect to rely on a combination of
available cash and the unsecured committed credit facilities to
provide short-term funding. In such event, the cost of
borrowings under the unsecured committed credit facilities would
likely be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowings.

Cash dividends to shareowners were
$122 million, or $0.66 per share, in 2002 compared to
$170 million, or $0.93 per share, in 2001. Prior to the
spinoff of Rockwell Collins, the Company paid quarterly cash
dividends, which, on an annual basis, equaled $1.02 per share.
Since the spinoff of Rockwell Collins, the Company has paid
quarterly cash dividends which, on an annual basis, equal $0.66
per share. Although declaration and payment of dividends by the
Company are at the sole discretion of the Company’s board
of directors, the Company expects to pay quarterly dividends in
2003, which, on an annual basis, will equal $0.66 per share.

Certain of the Company’s contractual cash
obligations at September 30, 2002 are summarized as follows:

In connection with the sale of a Power Systems
business in 2000, the Company entered into a supply agreement
with the buyer of the business. The agreement requires minimum
purchases by the Company of approximately $21 million per
year through December 31, 2005. In the event that purchases
are less than $21 million in a given year, the Company may
incur penalties which are a percentage of the amount by which
the actual purchases were less than the contractual minimum for
the period. Based upon current estimates of


future purchases, management does not believe
that any penalties payable under the terms of the agreement
would be material to the Company’s business or financial
condition.

At September 30, 2002, the Company
guaranteed the performance of Conexant related to a
$60 million lease obligation. The lease obligation is
secured by the real property subject to the lease and is within
a range of estimated fair values of the real property.
Management expects to be released from the guarantee by
December 31, 2003.

At September 30, 2002, the Company was the
sole guarantor of the performance of RSC under a lease agreement
for one of RSC’s facilities. The total future minimum
payments under the lease are approximately $7 million. The
lease agreement has a term which ends in 2011. Effective October
2002, the Company and Rockwell Collins each guarantees one-half
of the lease obligation of RSC.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about
Market Risk

The Company is exposed to market risk during the
normal course of business from changes in interest rates and
foreign currency exchange rates. The exposure to these risks is
managed through a combination of normal operating and financing
activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of
interest rate swap contracts and foreign currency forward
exchange contracts.

Interest Rate Risk

In addition to using cash provided by normal
operating activities, the Company utilizes a combination of
short-term and long-term debt to finance operations. The Company
is exposed to interest rate risk on these debt obligations.

The Company’s short-term debt obligations
relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. At
September 30, 2002 and 2001, the Company had no commercial
paper borrowings outstanding. During 2002, the weighted average
commercial paper borrowings were $68 million compared to
$293 million in 2001. At September 30, 2002, the
carrying value of bank borrowings was $10 million compared
to $9 million at September 30, 2001. The
Company’s results of operations are affected by changes in
market interest rates on these short-term obligations. If market
interest rates would have averaged 10 percent higher than
actual levels in either 2002 or 2001, the effect on the
Company’s results of operations would not have been
material. The fair values of these obligations approximated
their carrying values at September 30, 2002 and 2001, and
would not have been materially affected by changes in market
interest rates.

The Company had outstanding fixed rate long-term
debt obligations with carrying values of $919 million at
September 30, 2002 and $910 million at
September 30, 2001. The fair value of this debt was
$976 million at September 30, 2002 and
$898 million at September 30, 2001. The potential loss
in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a
hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates
would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. The
Company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding
fixed-rate instruments and, therefore, fluctuations in market
interest rates would not have an effect on the Company’s
results of operations or shareowners’ equity.

In September 2002, the Company entered into an
interest rate swap contract (the Swap) which effectively
converted its $350 million aggregate principal amount of
6.15% notes, payable in 2008, to floating rate debt based
on six-month LIBOR. The floating rate was 4.21 percent at
September 30, 2002. A hypothetical 10 percent change
in market interest rates would not be material to the overall
fair value of the swap or the Company’s results of
operations.

Foreign Currency Risk

The Company is exposed to foreign currency risks
that arise from normal business operations. These risks include
the translation of local currency balances of foreign
subsidiaries, intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and
transactions denominated in foreign currencies. The
Company’s objective is to minimize its exposure to these
risks through a combination of normal operating activities and
the utilization of foreign currency forward exchange contracts
to manage its exposure on transactions denominated in currencies
other


than the applicable functional currency. In
addition, the Company enters into contracts to hedge certain
forecasted intercompany transactions. Contracts are executed
with creditworthy banks and are denominated in currencies of
major industrial countries. It is the policy of the Company not
to enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative
purposes. The Company does not hedge its exposure to the
translation of reported results of foreign subsidiaries from
local currency to United States dollars. A 10 percent
adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates
would not be significant to the Company’s financial
condition or results of operations.

The Company records all derivatives on the
balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose or intent
for holding them. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges
for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through
earnings. For derivatives that are hedges, depending on the
nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by
changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or
firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other
comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in
earnings. The ineffective portion of a derivative’s change
in fair value is immediately recognized in earnings.

At September 30, 2002 and 2001, the Company
had outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts
primarily consisting of contracts to exchange the euro, pound
sterling, Canadian dollar and Swiss franc. The use of these
contracts allows the Company to manage transactional exposure to
exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on
the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in
whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign
currency exposure. A hypothetical 10 percent adverse change
in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with
these contracts would not be material to the financial
condition, results of operations or shareowners’ equity of
the Company.

New Accounting Standards

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 143,

Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations

(SFAS 143), which requires entities to
recognize the fair value of a liability for legal obligations
associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets in
the period incurred, if a reasonable estimate of the fair value
can be made.

In August 2001, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets

(SFAS 144),
which addresses financial accounting and reporting for the
impairment of long-lived assets to be held and used and for
long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale. Under
SFAS 144, the presentation of discontinued operations is
broadened to include a component of an entity rather than being
limited to a segment of a business. Also, accrual of future
operating losses of discontinued businesses will no longer be
permitted.

In July 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued SFAS No. 146,

Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities

(SFAS 146),
which addresses financial accounting and reporting associated
with exit or disposal activities. Under SFAS 146, the
Company will measure costs associated with an exit or disposal
activity at fair value and recognize the costs in the period in
which the liability is incurred rather than at the date of a
commitment to an exit or disposal plan.

The Company is required to adopt SFAS 143
and SFAS 144 at the beginning of fiscal year 2003.
Management is currently evaluating the provisions of
SFAS 143 and SFAS 144, but believes there will be no
material effect on the Company’s financial position,
results of operations or shareowners’ equity at the time of
adoption. The Company is required to adopt SFAS 146 for all
exit and disposal activities initiated after December 31,
2002.

Cautionary Statement

This Annual Report contains statements (including
certain projections and business trends) accompanied by such
phrases as “believes”, “estimates”,
“expects”, “anticipates”, “will”
and other similar expressions, that are “forward-looking
statements” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from
those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties,
including but not limited to economic and political changes in
international markets where the Company competes, such as


currency exchange rates, inflation rates,
recession, foreign ownership restrictions and other external
factors over which the Company has no control; demand for and
market acceptance of new and existing products, including levels
of capital spending in industrial markets; successful
development of advanced technologies; competitive product and
pricing pressures; future terrorist attacks; and the
uncertainties of litigation, as well as other risks and
uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed from
time to time in the Company’s Securities and Exchange
Commission filings. These forward-looking statements are made
only as of the date hereof, and the Company undertakes no
obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements,
whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise.

Item 7a.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk.

The information with respect to the
Company’s market risk is contained under the caption

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk

in

MD&A

on pages 24-25 hereof.


Item 8.

Consolidated
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

(in millions)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS

(in millions, except per share
amounts)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

(in millions)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREOWNERS’
EQUITY

(in millions, except per share
amounts)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME

(in millions)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

1.     Basis of
Presentation and Accounting Policies

Basis
of Presentation

Except as indicated, amounts reflected in the
consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto relate to
the continuing operations of Rockwell Automation, Inc. (the
Company or Rockwell Automation), formerly named Rockwell
International Corporation. Certain prior year amounts have been
reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

On June 29, 2001, the Company completed the
spinoff of its Rockwell Collins avionics and communications
business and certain other assets and liabilities into an
independent, separately traded, publicly held company (the
Spinoff). In connection with the Spinoff, all outstanding shares
of Rockwell Collins, Inc. (Rockwell Collins) were distributed to
Rockwell Automation shareowners on the basis of one Rockwell
Collins share for each outstanding Rockwell Automation share. At
the time of the Spinoff, Rockwell Collins made a special payment
to the Company of $300 million. The net assets of Rockwell
Collins as of June 29, 2001 of approximately
$1.2 billion (including $300 million of debt incurred to
make the special payment to the Company) were recorded as a
decrease to shareowners’ equity.

Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements of the
Company include the accounts of the Company and all subsidiaries
over which the Company has control. All significant intercompany
accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.

Use
of Estimates

The consolidated financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States which require management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial
statements and revenues and expenses during the periods
reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Estimates are used in accounting for, among other items, sales
rebates and incentives to distributors and commercial customers;
allowance for doubtful accounts; excess and obsolete inventory;
impairment of long-lived assets; product warranty obligations;
retirement benefits; self-insurance liabilities; litigation,
claims and contingencies including environmental matters; and
income taxes.

Revenue
Recognition

Sales are generally recorded when all of the
following have occurred: an agreement of sale exists, product
delivery and acceptance has occurred or services have been
rendered, pricing is fixed or determinable, and collection is
reasonably assured. Management is required to make judgments
about whether pricing is fixed or determinable and whether or
not collectibility is reasonably assured.

The Securities and Exchange Commission’s
(SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101,

Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements

, provides
guidance on the SEC staff’s views on application of
generally accepted accounting principles to selected revenue
recognition issues. The Company’s revenue recognition
policy is in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles and SAB No. 101.

The Company records accruals for sales rebates to
distributors at the time of shipment based upon historical
experience. Changes in such allowances may be required if future
rebates differ from historical experience.

In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force
(EITF) Issue No. 00-10,

Accounting for Shipping and
Handling Fees and Costs

, shipping and handling costs billed
to customers are included in sales and the related costs are
included in cost of sales in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

1.

Basis of Presentation and Accounting
    Policies — (Continued)

Cash
and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents includes time deposits
and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three
months or less.

Receivables

Receivables are stated net of allowances for
doubtful accounts of $45 at September 30, 2002 and
$43 million at September 30, 2001.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or
market using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or average methods.
Market is determined on the basis of estimated realizable values.

Property

Property is stated at cost. Depreciation of
property is provided generally using straight-line and
accelerated methods over 15 to 40 years for buildings and
improvements and 3 to 14 years for machinery and equipment.
Significant renewals and betterments are capitalized and
replaced units are written off. Maintenance and repairs, as well
as renewals of minor amounts, are charged to expense.

Intangible
Assets

Goodwill and other intangible assets generally
result from business acquisitions. The Company accounts for
business acquisitions by assigning the purchase price to
tangible and intangible assets and liabilities. Assets acquired
and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair values, and
the excess of the purchase price over the amounts assigned is
recorded as goodwill.

Since October 1, 2001 upon adoption of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard
(SFAS) No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets

(SFAS 142), goodwill and other intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives are no longer systematically amortized
but instead are reviewed for impairment and any excess in
carrying value over the estimated fair value is charged to
results of operations. Distributor networks, developed
technology, patents, and other intangibles with finite useful
lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives, generally ranging from 3 to
40 years.

Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets

The Company evaluates the recoverability of the
carrying amount of long-lived assets whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
may not be fully recoverable. The Company evaluates the
recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives annually or more frequently if events or
circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. If an
asset is considered to be impaired, the impairment to be
recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying
amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. Assets to be
disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or
fair value less cost to sell. Management determines fair value
using discounted future cash flow analysis or other accepted
valuation techniques.

Investments

Investments in affiliates over which the Company
has the ability to exert significant influence but does not
control, primarily including Rockwell Scientific Company LLC
(RSC), are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Accordingly, the Company’s proportional share of the
respective affiliate’s earnings or losses are included in
other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations. These affiliated


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

1.

Basis of Presentation and Accounting
    Policies — (Continued)

companies are not material individually or in the
aggregate to Rockwell Automation’s financial position,
results of operations or cash flows.

Derivative
Financial Instruments

The Company uses derivative financial instruments
in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and
interest rate swap contracts to manage foreign currency and
interest rate risks. Foreign currency forward exchange contracts
are used to hedge changes in the amount of future cash flows
associated with intercompany transactions generally forecasted
to occur within one year (cash flow hedges) and changes in the
fair value of certain assets and liabilities resulting from
intercompany loans and other transactions with third parties
denominated in foreign currencies. Interest rate swap contracts
are periodically used to manage the balance of fixed and
floating rate debt. The Company’s accounting method for
derivative financial instruments is based upon the designation
of such instruments as hedges under generally accepted
accounting principles. It is the policy of the Company to
execute such instruments with creditworthy banks and not to
enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative
purposes. All foreign currency forward exchange contracts are
denominated in currencies of major industrial countries.

Foreign
Currency Translation

Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries operating
outside of the United States with a functional currency other
than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars using
exchange rates at the end of the respective period. Sales, costs
and expenses are translated at average exchange rates effective
during the respective period. Foreign currency translation gains
and losses are included as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive loss. Currency transaction gains and losses are
included in the results of operations in the period incurred.

Earnings
Per Share

The Company presents two earnings per share
(EPS) amounts, basic and diluted. Basic EPS is calculated
by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS amounts are
based upon the weighted average number of common and common
equivalent shares outstanding during the year. Common equivalent
shares are excluded from the computation in periods in which
they have an antidilutive effect. The difference between basic
and diluted EPS is solely attributable to stock options. The
Company uses the treasury stock method to calculate the effect
of outstanding stock options. Stock options for which the
exercise price exceeds the average market price over the period
have an antidilutive effect on EPS, and accordingly, are
excluded from the calculation. For the years ended
September 30, 2002, 2001 and 2000, options for
4.0 million, 5.9 million and 4.8 million,
respectively, were excluded from the diluted EPS calculation
because they were antidilutive.

Stock-Based
Compensation

The Company accounts for stock-based compensation
in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

.
Stock options are granted at prices equal to the fair market
value of the Company’s common stock on the grant dates,
therefore no compensation expense is recognized in connection
with stock options granted to employees. Compensation expense
resulting from grants of restricted stock is recognized during
the period the service is performed.

Environmental
Matters

The Company records accruals for environmental
matters in the accounting period in which its responsibility is
probable and the cost can be reasonably estimated. Revisions to
the accruals are made in the periods in which the estimated
costs of remediation change. At environmental sites in which
more than one


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

1.

Basis of Presentation and Accounting
    Policies — (Continued)

potentially responsible party has been
identified, the Company records a liability for its estimated
allocable share of costs related to its involvement with the
site as well as an estimated allocable share of costs related to
the involvement of insolvent or unidentified parties. At
environmental sites in which the Company is the only responsible
party, the Company records a liability for the total estimated
costs of remediation. Future expenditures for environmental
remediation obligations are not discounted to their present
value. If recovery from insurers or other third parties is
determined to be probable, the Company records a receivable for
the estimated recovery.

Recently
Adopted Accounting Standards

Effective October 1, 2001, the Company
adopted SFAS 142. Under SFAS 142, goodwill and certain other
intangible assets are no longer systematically amortized but
instead are reviewed for impairment and any excess in carrying
value over the estimated fair value is charged to results of
operations (see Note 3).

The Company adopted EITF Issue No. 01-14,

Income Statement Characterization of Reimbursements Received
for ‘Out of Pocket’ Expenses Incurred

(EITF
01-14), on January 1, 2002. EITF 01-14 requires companies
to classify as sales certain amounts billed to customers that
have historically been classified as a reduction of cost of
sales. Out of pocket expenses which have been reclassified from
cost of sales to sales were $6 million in 2001 and
$5 million in 2000.

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued SFAS No. 141,

Business Combinations

(SFAS
141), which addresses financial accounting and reporting for
business combinations and requires that the purchase method of
accounting be used for all business combinations initiated after
June 30, 2001.

New
Accounting Standards

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued SFAS No. 143,

Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations

(SFAS 143), which requires entities to recognize
the fair value of a liability for legal obligations associated
with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets in the period
incurred, if a reasonable estimate of the fair value can be made.

In August 2001, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets

(SFAS 144),
which addresses financial accounting and reporting for the
impairment of long-lived assets to be held and used and for
long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale. Under SFAS 144, the
presentation of discontinued operations is broadened to include
a component of an entity rather than being limited to a segment
of a business. Also, accrual of future operating losses of
discontinued businesses will no longer be permitted.

In July 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued SFAS No. 146,

Accounting for Costs Associated
with Exit or Disposal Activities

(SFAS 146), which addresses
financial accounting and reporting associated with exit or
disposal activities. Under SFAS 146, the Company will measure
costs associated with an exit or disposal activity at fair value
and recognize the costs in the period in which the liability is
incurred rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or
disposal plan.

The Company is required to adopt SFAS 143 and
SFAS 144 at the beginning of fiscal year 2003. Management is
currently evaluating the provisions of SFAS 143 and SFAS 144,
but believes there will be no material effect on the
Company’s financial position, results of operations or
shareowners’ equity at the time of adoption. The Company is
required to adopt SFAS 146 for all exit and disposal activities
initiated after December 31, 2002.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

2.     Acquisitions
of Businesses

In September 2002, the Company’s Control
Systems segment acquired the engineering services and system
integration assets of SPEL, spol. s.r.o. The acquisition is
expected to accelerate the establishment of the Company as a
complete solution provider in Central Europe and it also
strategically locates the Company in a region with future growth
opportunities.

In May 2002, the Company’s Control Systems
segment acquired the assets of the controller division of
Samsung Electronics Company Limited’s Mechatronics business
(the Controller Division). The Company combined its existing
Korean business with the Controller Division to form a new
business that operates under the name Rockwell Samsung
Automation and creates technologies for the design and
development of automation products. The acquisition is expected
to expand the Company’s existing operations in Korea,
further the Company’s design and product development
capabilities and support future commercial and operational
expansion in the Asia Pacific region.

In March 2002, the Company’s Control Systems
segment acquired all of the stock of Propack Data GmbH
(Propack), a provider of manufacturing information systems for
the pharmaceutical and other regulated industries. The
acquisition is expected to broaden the Company’s position
in the pharmaceuticals market, enhance the Company’s
process solutions business and enable the Company to expand its
reach into the manufacturing information markets.

In January 2002, the Company’s Control
Systems segment acquired all of the stock of Tesch GmbH, an
electronic products and safety relay manufacturer, expanding the
Company’s machine safety product and research and
development capabilities.

The aggregate cash purchase price of the
businesses acquired in 2002, of which the majority related to
the acquisition of Propack, was approximately $71 million.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been recorded at
fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated
fair value of the acquired tangible and intangible assets was
recorded as goodwill.

In October 2000, the Control Systems segment
acquired the batch software and services business of Sequencia
Corporation. The purchase price for this acquisition was
$6 million which was allocated to intangible assets,
including developed technology and assembled workforce, and the
excess of the purchase price over the amounts assigned to
intangible assets was recorded as goodwill.

In March 2000, the Control Systems segment
acquired Entek IRD International Corporation, a provider of
machinery condition monitoring solutions. In April 2000, the
Control Systems segment acquired substantially all the assets
and assumed certain liabilities of Systems Modeling Corporation,
a software developer. The aggregate cash purchase price for
acquisitions in 2000 was $70 million, of which
$61 million was allocated to intangible assets, including
developed technology, and the excess of the purchase price over
the amounts assigned to tangible and intangible assets was
recorded as goodwill. Developed technology is being amortized on
a straight-line basis over a period of 5 years.

Amounts recorded for liabilities assumed in
connection with these acquisitions were $6 million in 2002,
$1 million in 2001 and $16 million in 2000.

These acquisitions were accounted for as
purchases and, accordingly, the results of operations of these
businesses have been included in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations since their respective dates of acquisition. Pro
forma financial information and allocation of the purchase price
is not presented as the combined effect of these acquisitions
was not material to the Company’s results of operations or
financial position.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

3.     Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets

In connection with the adoption of SFAS 142,
management determined that the Company’s Allen-Bradley,
Reliance and Dodge trademarks have indefinite useful lives.
Accordingly, management performed a transitional intangible
asset impairment test which resulted in an impairment charge of
$56 million ($35 million after tax, or 19 cents per
diluted share) related to the Reliance trademark used primarily
by Power Systems. The impairment charge represents the excess of
the carrying amount of the trademark over its estimated fair
value as determined by management, with the assistance of
independent valuation experts, utilizing the relief from royalty
valuation method. This method estimates the benefit to the
Company resulting from owning rather than licensing the
trademark.

Also in connection with the adoption of SFAS 142,
the Company completed the transitional goodwill impairment test
during 2002. As a result, an impairment charge of
$73 million (before and after tax, or 39 cents per diluted
share) was recorded related to goodwill at a Power Systems
reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit was
estimated using a combination of valuation techniques, including
the present value of expected future cash flows and historical
valuations of comparable businesses.

The previous method for determining impairment
prescribed by SFAS No. 121,

Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Long-Lived Assets to be
Disposed of

, utilized an undiscounted cash flow approach for
the initial impairment assessment, while SFAS 142 utilizes a
fair value approach. The trademark impairment charge and the
goodwill impairment charge discussed above are the result of the
change in the accounting method for determining the impairment
of goodwill and certain intangible assets. These charges have
been recorded as the cumulative effect of accounting change in
the amount of $129 million ($108 million after tax, or
58 cents per diluted share) as of October 1, 2001 in the
accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill
for the year ended September 30, 2002 are as follows (in
millions):

Other includes an adjustment to goodwill for the
resolution of tax matters relating to tax returns filed by
Reliance Electric Company prior to its acquisition by Rockwell
Automation in 1995. The change in the carrying amount of
goodwill for the year ended September 30, 2001 resulted
primarily from amortization.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

3.

Goodwill and Other Intangible
    Assets — (Continued)

The results for periods prior to adoption of SFAS
142 have not been restated. The following table reconciles the
reported income from continuing operations before accounting
change, net income and earnings per share to that which would
have resulted for 2001 and 2000 if SFAS 142 had been adopted
effective October 1, 1999 (in millions, except per share
amounts):


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

3.

Goodwill and Other Intangible
    Assets — (Continued)

Other intangible assets at September 30,
2002 and September 30, 2001 consisted of the following (in
millions):

Unamortized intangible assets consists of
trademarks which have been determined to have an indefinite life.

Estimated amortization expense for each of the
fiscal years ended September 30 is as follows (in millions):

In connection with the business acquisitions in
2002, the Company acquired $12 million of intangible
assets, of which $9 million was assigned to developed
technology. The weighted-average amortization period for the
intangible assets acquired in 2002 is 5 years and the
amortization period for developed technology acquired in 2002 is
6 years.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

4.

Inventories

Inventories are summarized as follows (in
millions):

Inventories are reported net of the allowance for
excess and obsolete inventory of $53 million at
September 30, 2002 and $50 million at
September 30, 2001.

5.

Property

Property is summarized as follows (in millions):

6.

Short-Term Debt

Short-term debt consists of the following (in
millions):

Included in the current portion of long-term debt
is $150 million of 6.80% notes which mature in April 2003.
The weighted average interest rate on short-term bank borrowings
was 2.8 percent at September 30, 2002 and
2.0 percent at September 30, 2001.

At September 30, 2002, the Company had
$1 billion of unsecured credit facilities with various
banks to support commercial paper borrowings. There were no
significant commitment fees or compensating balance requirements
under these facilities. On October 29, 2002, the Company
terminated these credit facilities and entered into new credit
facilities with various banks for $337.5 million expiring
in October 2003 and $337.5 million expiring in October
2005. Pursuant to the terms of the new credit facilities, the
Company’s debt to capital ratio shall not exceed
60 percent. Short-term credit facilities available to
foreign subsidiaries amounted to $108 million at
September 30, 2002 and consisted of arrangements for which
there are no significant commitment fees.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

7.

Other Current Liabilities

Other current liabilities are summarized as
follows (in millions):

8.

Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following (in
millions):

In September 2002, the Company entered into an
interest rate swap contract (the Swap) which effectively
converted its $350 million aggregate principal amount of
6.15% notes, payable in 2008, to floating rate debt based on
six-month LIBOR. The floating rate was 4.21 percent at
September 30, 2002. At September 30, 2002, the fair
value of the Swap, based upon quoted market prices for contracts
with similar maturities, was approximately $6 million. As
permitted by SFAS 133, the Company has designated the Swap
as a fair value hedge. Accordingly, the fair value of the Swap
was recorded in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
and the carrying value of the underlying debt was adjusted by an
equal amount in accordance with SFAS 133.

9.

Financial Instruments

The Company’s financial instruments include
short- and long-term debt and foreign currency forward exchange
contracts. The fair value of short-term debt approximates the
carrying value due to its short-term nature. The carrying value
of long-term debt was $919 million at September 30,
2002 and $910 million at September 30, 2001. The fair
value of long-term debt, based upon quoted market prices for the
same or similar issues, was $976 million at
September 30, 2002 and $898 million at
September 30, 2001.

Foreign currency forward exchange contracts
provide for the purchase or sale of foreign currencies at
specified future dates at specified exchange rates. At
September 30, 2002 and 2001, the Company had outstanding
foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily consisting
of contracts for the euro, pound sterling, Canadian dollar and
Swiss franc. The net carrying value of foreign currency forward
exchange


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

9.

Financial Instruments —
    (Continued)

contracts of $15 million at
September 30, 2002 and $2 million at
September 30, 2001 was equal to its fair value based upon
quoted market prices for contracts with similar maturities. The
foreign currency forward exchange contracts are recorded in
other current assets in the amounts of $6 million as of
September 30, 2002 and $11 million as of
September 30, 2001 and other current liabilities in the
amounts of $21 million as of September 30, 2002 and
$9 million as of September 30, 2001. The Company does
not anticipate any material adverse effect on its results of
operations or financial position relating to these foreign
currency forward exchange contracts. The Company has designated
certain foreign currency forward exchange contracts related to
forecasted intercompany transactions as cash flow hedges. The
amount recognized in earnings as a result of the ineffectiveness
of cash flow hedges was not material.

10.     Shareowners’
Equity

Common
Stock

At September 30, 2002, the authorized stock
of the Company consisted of one billion shares of common stock,
par value $1 per share, and 25 million shares of
preferred stock, without par value. At September 30, 2002,
28.7 million shares of common stock were reserved for
various employee incentive plans.

Changes in outstanding common shares are
summarized as follows (in millions):

Preferred
Share Purchase Rights

Each outstanding share of common stock provides
the holder with one Preferred Share Purchase Right (Right). The
Rights will become exercisable only if a person or group,
without the approval of the board of directors, acquires, or
offers to acquire, 20% or more of the common stock, although the
board of directors is authorized to reduce the 20% threshold for
triggering the Rights to not less than 10%. Upon exercise, each
Right entitles the holder to 1/100th of a share of Series A
Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Company (Junior
Preferred Stock) at a price of $250, subject to adjustment.

Upon an acquisition of the Company, each Right
(other than Rights held by the acquirer) will generally be
exercisable for $500 worth of either common stock of the Company
or common stock of the acquirer for $250. In certain
circumstances, each Right may be exchanged by the Company for
one share of common stock or 1/100th of a share of Junior
Preferred Stock. The Rights will expire on December 6,
2006, unless earlier exchanged or redeemed at $0.01 per Right.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

10.     Shareowners’
Equity — (Continued)

Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Loss

Accumulated other comprehensive loss consisted of
the following (in millions):

Unrealized gains on cash flow hedges of
$7 million ($4 million after tax) in 2002 and
$22 million ($15 million after tax) in 2001 were
reclassified into earnings and offset losses on the hedged
items. There were no amounts reclassified into earnings in 2000.
Approximately $3 million of the net unrealized losses on
cash flow hedges as of September 30, 2002 will be
reclassified into earnings during 2003. Management expects that
these unrealized losses will be offset when the hedged items are
recognized in earnings.

11.     Stock
Options

Options to purchase common stock of the Company
have been granted under various incentive plans and by board
action to directors, officers and other key employees at prices
equal to or above the fair market value of the stock on the
dates the options were granted. The plans provide that the
option price for certain options granted under the plans may be
paid in cash, shares of common stock or a combination thereof.

Under the 2000 Long-Term Incentives Plan, the
Company may grant up to 16 million shares of Company common
stock as non-qualified options, incentive stock options, stock
appreciation rights and restricted stock. Shares available for
future grant or payment under various incentive plans were
7.6 million at September 30, 2002. None of the
incentive plans presently permits options to be granted after
November 30, 2009. Stock options generally expire ten years
from the date they are granted and vest over three years
(time-vesting options) with the exception of performance-vesting
options. Performance-vesting options expire ten years from the
date they are granted and vest at the earlier of (a) the
date the market price of the Company’s common stock reaches
a specified level for a pre-determined period of time or certain
other financial performance criteria are met or (b) a
period of six to nine years from the date they are granted.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

11.     Stock
Options — (Continued)

Information relative to stock options is as
follows (shares in thousands):

Approximately 1.1 million
performance-vesting options were not exercisable at
September 30, 2002.

In connection with the Spinoff, the number and
exercise prices of certain options were adjusted in order to
preserve the intrinsic value of the options that were
outstanding immediately before and after the Spinoff. For
certain other options, option holders received a combination of
Rockwell Automation and Rockwell Collins options with
adjustments made to the number and exercise prices of those
options to preserve the intrinsic value of the Rockwell
Automation and Rockwell Collins options that were outstanding
immediately before and after the Spinoff. Outstanding Rockwell
Automation options held by Rockwell Collins employees generally
were converted into Rockwell Collins options. None of the
information for 2000, the options outstanding at the beginning
of 2001 nor grants for 2001 have been restated to reflect
adjustments made in connection with the Spinoff.

The following table summarizes information about
stock options outstanding at September 30, 2002 (shares in
thousands; remaining life in years):

The closing price of the Company’s common
stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Transactions
reporting system on September 30, 2002 was $16.27 per share.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

11.     Stock
Options — (Continued)

The Company’s net income and earnings per
share would have been reduced to the following pro forma amounts
if the Company accounted for its stock-based plans using the
fair value method provided by SFAS No. 123,

Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation

(in millions, except per share
amounts):

The 2001 pro forma net income includes
$6 million ($4 million after tax, or two cents per
diluted share) of pro forma compensation expense related to the
spinoff of Rockwell Collins. The pro forma effect of stock
options on net income for 2002 may not be indicative of the pro
forma effect on net income in future years.

The per share weighted average fair value of
options granted was $2.99 in 2002, $8.79 in 2001 and $16.30 in
2000. The fair value of each option was estimated on the date of
grant or subsequent date of option adjustment using the
Black-Scholes pricing model and the following assumptions:

The per share weighted average fair value of
options granted in 2001 and 2000 have not been restated to
reflect the Spinoff.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

12.     Retirement
Benefits

The Company sponsors pension and other
postretirement benefit plans for its employees. The pension
plans cover most of the Company’s employees and provide for
monthly pension payments to eligible employees upon retirement.
Pension benefits for salaried employees generally are based on
years of credited service and average earnings. Pension benefits
for hourly employees generally are based on specified benefit
amounts and years of service. The Company’s policy is to
fund its pension obligations in conformity with the funding
requirements of applicable laws and governmental regulations.
Other postretirement benefits are in the form of retirement
medical plans and cover most of the Company’s United States
employees and provide for the payment of certain medical costs
of eligible employees and dependents upon retirement.

Pension plan obligations attributable to all of
Rockwell Automation’s domestic active employees and former
employees of the Control Systems, Power Systems and FirstPoint
Contact businesses were retained by Rockwell Automation and a
proportionate share of pension plan assets were transferred from
the former Rockwell International Corporation domestic qualified
plan (Rockwell Retirement Plan) to a new pension plan
established by Rockwell Automation. In connection with the
Spinoff, Rockwell Collins assumed the Rockwell Retirement Plan.
The Company also retained liabilities for other postretirement
benefits for active and former employees. The tables below
reflect the continuing Rockwell Automation plans.

The components of net periodic benefit cost are
as follows (in millions):

The Company recognized a curtailment gain of
$9 million in 2000 and special termination benefit charges
of $3 million in 2001 and $3 million in 2000.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

12.     Retirement
Benefits — (Continued)

Benefit obligation, plan assets, funded status,
and net liability information is summarized as follows (in
millions):


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

12.     Retirement
Benefits — (Continued)

In connection with the Spinoff, pension plan
obligations attributable to Rockwell Science Center domestic
active and former employees and a proportionate share of pension
plan assets were transferred from the Rockwell Retirement Plan
to a new pension plan established by RSC. RSC also assumed its
obligation for other postretirement benefits for such active and
former employees.

The Company uses an actuarial measurement date of
June 30 to measure its benefit obligations. Significant
assumptions used in determining these benefit obligations and
net periodic benefit cost are summarized as follows (in weighted
averages):

*

Decreasing to 5.5% after 2017.

The discount rate, compensation increase rate and
health care cost trend rate assumptions are determined as of the
measurement date. The expected return on plan assets assumption
is determined as of the previous measurement date.

Effective October 1, 2002, the Company
amended its United States postretirement healthcare benefit
program in order to mitigate the increasing cost of
postretirement healthcare services. This change will be phased
in as follows: effective January 1, 2004, the Company, per
an amendment to this program implemented in 1992, will
contribute 50 percent of the amount in excess of the 2003
per capita amount. However, the Company’s 2004 contribution
shall be limited to a 7.5 percent increase from the 2003
per capita amount. Effective January 1, 2005, the Company
will limit its future per capita maximum contribution to its
calendar 2004 per capita contribution. The effect of this change
will be to reduce the benefit obligation by $62 million.
Net periodic benefit cost in 2003 will be approximately
$32 million, which is approximately 20 percent lower
than what the cost would have been without implementing this
change.

Pension
Benefits

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated
benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for the pension
plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of the fair
value of plan assets (underfunded plans) were $1,325 million,
$1,137 million and $961 million respectively, as of
the 2002 measurement date (June 30) and $93 million,
$78 million and $20 million, respectively, as of the
2001 measurement date.

Other
Postretirement Benefits

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a
significant effect on amounts reported for the retiree medical
plans. A one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost
trend rates would have the following effect (in millions):


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

12.     Retirement
Benefits — (Continued)

Defined
Contribution Savings Plans

The Company also sponsors certain defined
contribution savings plans for eligible employees. Expense
related to these plans was $21 million for 2002,
$22 million for 2001 and $21 million for 2000.

13.     Special
Charges

In 2001, the Company recorded special charges of
$91 million ($60 million after tax, or 32 cents per
diluted share) for costs associated with the consolidation and
closing of facilities, the realignment of administrative
functions, the reduction of workforce, primarily in North
America, by approximately 2,000 employees and asset impairments.
The special charges are reflected in the Consolidated Statement
of Operations for the year ended September 30, 2001 in cost
of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses in the
amounts of $50 million and $41 million, respectively.
The Company had completed these actions at September 30,
2002.

Total cash expenditures in connection with these
actions are expected to approximate $50 million. The
Company spent approximately $43 million through
September 30, 2002 of which $41 million related to
employee severance and separation costs. In connection with the
Spinoff, Rockwell Collins assumed a liability for employee
severance and separation costs resulting from these actions of
approximately $7 million. As a result of actions taken
through September 30, 2002, all of the workforce reductions
have been completed. The remaining balance at September 30,
2002 relates to salary continuation and benefit payments to
terminated employees.

The special charges included write-downs to the
carrying amount of goodwill, certain facilities and machinery
and equipment totaling approximately $27 million resulting
from the decision to shut down certain facilities and exit
non-strategic operations. The charges represented the difference
between the fair values of the assets and their carrying values.
Fair value was determined by management on the basis of various
customary valuation techniques.

Revenues and results of operations of businesses
and product lines which are being exited are not material.

The charges and their utilization for the years
ended September 30, 2001 and 2002 are summarized as follows
(in millions):

The Company evaluates the adequacy of reserves
recorded in prior years and makes necessary revisions for
changes in estimates in the periods in which they occur. The
remaining balances at September 30, 2002 related to charges
taken in previous years were not significant. During 2001, the
Company recorded an adjustment of $8 million as a reduction
of cost of sales and $2 million as a reduction of selling,
general and administrative expenses primarily as a result of
lower than expected employee separation and lease termination
costs associated with actions taken in prior years.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

14.     Discontinued
Operations

Summarized results of the Company’s Rockwell
Collins avionics and communications business are as follows (in
millions):

The results of operations of the Company’s
Rockwell Collins avionics and communications business in 2001
include $21 million of costs directly related to the
Spinoff.

The net benefit of $3 million in
discontinued operations in 2002 reflects the resolution of
certain obligations related to two discontinued businesses.
Related payments of approximately $36 million were made in
2002, which have been reflected as cash used by discontinued
operations in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows.

15.     Related Party
Transactions

Following the Spinoff, the Company and Rockwell
Collins each have owned 50 percent of Rockwell Scientific
Company LLC (RSC) (formerly a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company known as Rockwell Science Center). At September 30,
2002, the Company’s investment in RSC of $50 million
is included in other assets. Beginning with the fourth quarter
of 2001, the Company’s 50 percent ownership interest
in RSC is accounted for using the equity method.

The Company has an agreement with RSC pursuant to
which RSC will perform research and development services for the
Company through 2004. The Company is obligated to pay RSC a
minimum of $3 million for such services in 2003 and
$4 million for such services in 2004. The Company incurred
approximately $3 million for research and development
services performed by RSC for the year ended September 30,
2002. At September 30, 2002, the amount due to RSC for
research and development services was not significant.

The Company shares equally with Rockwell Collins
in providing a $4 million line of credit to RSC which bears
interest at the greater of the Company’s or Rockwell
Collins’ commercial paper borrowing rate. At
September 30, 2002, there were no outstanding borrowings on
the line of credit. At September 30, 2002, the Company was
the sole guarantor of the performance of RSC under a lease
agreement for one of RSC’s facilities. The total future
minimum lease payments under the lease are approximately
$7 million. The lease agreement has a term which ends in
2011. Effective October 2002, the Company and Rockwell Collins
each guarantees one-half of the lease obligation of RSC.

The Company owns 25 percent of CoLinx, LLC
(CoLinx), a company that provides logistics and e-commerce
services. The Company paid CoLinx approximately $15 million
in 2002 and $6 million in 2001 primarily for logistics
services. In addition, CoLinx paid the Company approximately
$3 million in 2002 and $2 million in 2001 for the use
of facilities owned by the Company and other services.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

16.     Other Income
(Expense)

The components of other income (expense) net
are as follows (in millions):

During 2000, the Company recorded a
$32 million gain on the sale of real estate, which was
partially offset by a loss of $14 million on the sale of a
Power Systems business, and recorded $28 million of income
resulting from the demutualization of Metropolitan Life
Insurance Company.

17.     Income
Taxes

The components of the income tax provision are as
follows (in millions):

During 2002, the Company resolved certain tax
matters for the period of 1995-1999. The resolution resulted in
a $48 million reduction of the Company’s income tax
provision, of which $11 million is reflected in tax refund
claims in the current income tax provision and $37 million
is reflected in the United States deferred income tax provision.

During 2001, the Company reached agreement with
various taxing authorities on refund claims related to certain
prior years and recorded $22 million as a reduction of its
income tax provision.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

17.     Income
Taxes — (Continued)

Net current deferred income tax assets at
September 30, 2002 and 2001 consist of the tax effects of
temporary differences related to the following (in millions):

Net long-term deferred income tax liabilities at
September 30, 2002 and 2001 consist of the tax effects of
temporary differences related to the following (in millions):

Management believes it is more likely than not
that current and long-term deferred tax assets will be realized
through the reduction of future taxable income. Significant
factors considered by management in its determination of the
probability of the realization of the deferred tax assets
include: (a) the historical operating results of the
Company ($346 million of United States taxable income over
the past three years), (b) expectations of future earnings,
and (c) the extended period of time over which the
retirement medical liability will be paid. A valuation allowance
is established at September 30, 2002 for deferred tax
assets related to non-United States, state and local net
operating loss carryforwards ($12 million), capital loss
carryforwards ($8 million) and state tax credit
carryforwards ($3 million) for which utilization is
uncertain. The carryforward period for the majority of the
non-United States net operating loss carryforwards is
indefinite. The carryforward period for the state and local net
operating loss carryforwards ends between 2007 and 2022. The
capital loss carryforwards expire in 2007. The carryforward
period for the state tax credit carryforwards ends between 2003
and 2011.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

17.     Income
Taxes — (Continued)

The effective income tax rate differed from the
United States statutory tax rate for the reasons set forth below:

The $48 million reduction of the 2002 income
tax provision resulting from the resolution of certain tax
matters for period of 1995-1999 is reflected in the effective
income tax rate in tax refund claims (4.7%) and resolution of
prior period tax matters (16.0%).

The income tax provisions were calculated based
upon the following components of income from continuing
operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of
accounting change (in millions):

No provision has been made for United States,
state, or additional non-United States income taxes related to
approximately $261 million of undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries which have been or are intended to be
permanently reinvested. It is not practical to determine the
United States federal income tax liability, if any, which would
be payable if such earnings were not permanently reinvested.

The Company anticipates filing in 2003 a federal
research and experimentation tax credit refund claim of
approximately $100 million for the years 1997 through 2001.
The claim will be subject to audit by the Internal Revenue
Service. The ultimate potential tax benefit of this claim, if
any, is not currently known and therefore no benefit has been
recognized for financial reporting purposes.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

18.     Supplementary
Financial Statement Information

Income taxes paid and interest payments related
to discontinued operations for 2001 and 2000 were not
significant.

Minimum future rental commitments under operating
leases having noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year
aggregated $208 million as of September 30, 2002 and
are payable as follows (in millions): 2003, $47; 2004, $42;
2005, $35; 2006, $25; 2007, $20; and after 2007, $39.
Commitments from third parties under sublease agreements having
noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year aggregated
$42 million as of September 30, 2002 and are
receivable through 2008 at approximately $7 million per
year.

19.     Commitments
and Contingent Liabilities

Federal, state and local requirements relating to
the discharge of substances into the environment, the disposal
of hazardous wastes and other activities affecting the
environment have and will continue to have an effect on the
manufacturing operations of the Company. Thus far, compliance
with environmental requirements and resolution of environmental
claims has been accomplished without material effect on the
Company’s liquidity and capital resources, competitive
position or financial condition.

The Company has been designated as a potentially
responsible party at 15 Superfund sites, excluding sites as to
which the Company’s records disclose no involvement or as
to which the Company’s potential liability has been finally
determined and assumed by third parties. Management estimates
the total reasonably possible costs the Company could incur for
the remediation of Superfund sites at September 30, 2002 to
be about $14 million, of which $8 million has been accrued.

Various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings
have been asserted against the Company alleging violations of
federal, state and local environmental protection requirements,
or seeking remediation of alleged environmental impairments,
principally at previously owned properties. As of
September 30, 2002, management has estimated the highest
total reasonably possible costs the Company could incur from
these matters to be about $51 million. The Company has
recorded environmental accruals for these matters of
$19 million. In addition to the above matters, the Company
assumed certain other environmental liabilities in connection
with the 1995 acquisition of Reliance Electric Company
(Reliance). The Company is indemnified by ExxonMobil Corporation
(Exxon) for substantially all costs associated with these
Reliance matters. At September 30, 2002, the Company has
recorded a liability of approximately $29 million and a
receivable of approximately $28 million for these Reliance
matters. Management estimates the highest total reasonably
possible costs for these matters to be approximately
$37 million for which the Company is substantially
indemnified by Exxon.

Based on its assessment, management believes that
the Company’s expenditures for environmental capital
investment and remediation necessary to comply with present
regulations governing environmental protection and other
expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims will not
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity
and capital resources, competitive position or financial
condition. Management cannot assess the possible effect of
compliance with future requirements.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

19.     Commitments
and Contingent Liabilities — (Continued)

Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have
been or may be instituted or asserted against the Company
relating to the conduct of its business, including those
pertaining to product liability, intellectual property, safety
and health, employment and contract matters. In connection with
the divestiture of its former aerospace and defense businesses
(the A&D Business) to The Boeing Company (Boeing), Rockwell
Automation agreed to indemnify Boeing for certain matters
related to operations of the A&D Business for periods prior
to the divestiture. In connection with the spinoffs of the
Company’s former automotive component systems business,
semiconductor systems business and Rockwell Collins avionics and
communications business, the spun-off companies have agreed to
indemnify Rockwell Automation for substantially all contingent
liabilities related to the respective businesses, including
environmental and intellectual property matters. Although the
outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and
some lawsuits, claims, or proceedings may be disposed of
unfavorably to the Company, management believes the disposition
of matters which are pending or asserted will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s business or
financial condition.

The Company has, from time to time, divested
certain of its businesses. In connection with such divestitures,
there may be lawsuits, claims and proceedings instituted or
asserted against the Company related to the period that the
businesses were owned by the Company. In addition, the Company
has guaranteed performance and payment under certain contracts
of divested businesses, including a $60 million lease
obligation of the Company’s former semiconductor systems
business. The lease obligation of the Company’s former
semiconductor systems business is secured by real property
subject to the lease and is within a range of estimated fair
values of the real property. In consideration for this
guarantee, the Company will receive $250,000 per quarter from
Conexant through December 31, 2003. Management expects to
be released from the guarantee by December 31, 2003. In
most cases, the Company is indemnified for these obligations by
the divested businesses. Management believes that any judgments
against the Company related to such matters or claims pursuant
to the guarantees would not have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s business or financial condition.

In connection with the sale of a Power Systems
business in 2000, the Company entered into a supply agreement
with the buyer of the business. The agreement requires minimum
purchases by the Company of approximately $21 million per year
through December 31, 2005. In the event that purchases are
less than $21 million in a given year, the Company may
incur penalties which are a percentage of the amount by which
the actual purchases were less that the contractual minimum for
the period. Based upon current estimates of future purchases,
management of the Company does not believe that any penalties
payable under the terms of the agreement would be material to
the Company’s business or financial condition.

20.     Business
Segment Information

Rockwell Automation is a provider of industrial
automation power, control and information products and services.
The Company is organized based upon products and services and
has three operating segments consisting of Control Systems,
Power Systems and FirstPoint Contact. The Company has a
50 percent ownership interest in RSC and accounts for its
interest in RSC using the equity method.

Control Systems

The Control Systems operating segment is a
supplier of industrial automation products, systems, software
and services focused on helping customers control and improve
manufacturing processes and is divided into three units: the
Components and Packaged Applications Group (CPAG), the
Automation Control and Information Group (ACIG) and Global
Manufacturing Solutions (GMS).

CPAG produces industrial components, power
control and motor management products, and packaged and
engineered products. It supplies both electro-mechanical and
solid-state products, including motor starters and contactors,
push buttons and signaling devices, termination and protection
devices, relays and timers,


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

20.     Business
Segment Information — (Continued)

discrete and condition sensors and variable
speed drives. CPAG’s sales account for approximately
40 percent of Control Systems sales.

ACIG’s products include programmable logic
controllers (PLCs). PLCs are used to automate the control and
monitoring of industrial plants and processes and typically
consist of a computer processor and input/output devices. The
Company’s Logix

TM

integrated architecture
integrates multiple types of controls disciplines including
discrete, process, drive and motion control across various
factory floor operating systems. ACIG also produces distributed
I/ O (input/output) platforms, high performance rotary and
linear motion control systems, electronic operator interface
devices, plant floor industrial computers and machine safety
components. ACIG’s sales account for approximately
40 percent of Control Systems sales.

GMS provides multi-vendor automation and
information systems and solutions which help customers improve
their manufacturing operations. Solutions include multi-vendor
customer support, training, software, consulting and
implementation, asset management, and process batch
manufacturing solutions. GMS’s sales account for
approximately 20 percent of Control Systems sales.

Power Systems

The Power Systems operating segment is divided
into two operating units: The Mechanical Power Transmission
Business (Mechanical) and The Industrial Motor and Drive
Business (Electrical).

Mechanical’s products include mounted
bearings, gear reducers, standard mechanical drives, conveyor
pulleys, couplings, bushings, clutches and motor brakes.
Electrical’s products include industrial and engineered
motors and standard AC and DC drives. In addition, Power Systems
provides product repair, motor and mechanical maintenance
solutions, plant maintenance, training and consulting services
to OEM’s, end users and distributors.

FirstPoint Contact

The FirstPoint Contact operating segment provides
customer contact center solutions that support multiple channels
(voice, e-mail, web, wireless) through open interaction
infrastructure. Products include automatic call distributors,
computer telephony integration software, information collection,
reporting, queuing and management systems, call center systems
and consulting services.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

20.     Business
Segment Information — (Continued)

The following tables reflect the sales and
operating results of the Company’s reportable segments for
the years ended September 30 (in millions):

Other represents the sales and segment operating
earnings of Rockwell Science Center through the third quarter of
2001. Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2001, the
Company’s 50 percent ownership interest in RSC is
accounted for using the equity method, and the Company’s
proportional share of RSC’s earnings or losses are included
in general corporate — net.

Certain amounts in prior periods have been
reclassified to reflect the transfer of management
responsibility of a business from Control Systems to Power
Systems which was effective January 1, 2002. In addition,
reclassifications have been made as a result of the adoption of
EITF Issue No. 01-14 (see Note 1).

Effective October 1, 2001, the Company
adopted SFAS 142. As a result of adopting SFAS 142,
the Company no longer amortizes goodwill and certain other
intangible assets that have been deemed to have an indefinite
useful life. The amortization of goodwill and the intangible
assets that have been deemed to have an indefinite useful life
was $56 million in 2001 and $53 million in 2000.

Among other considerations, the Company evaluates
performance and allocates resources based upon segment operating
earnings before income taxes, interest expense, costs related to
corporate offices, nonrecurring special charges, gains and
losses from the disposition of businesses, earnings and losses
from equity affiliates which are not considered part of the
operations of a particular segment, and incremental acquisition
related expenses resulting from purchase accounting adjustments
such as goodwill and other intangible asset amortization,
depreciation, inventory and purchased research and development
charges. Intersegment sales are made at market prices. The
accounting policies used in preparing the segment information
are consistent with those described in Note 1. Special
charges are discussed in Note 13.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

20.     Business
Segment Information — (Continued)

The following tables summarize the identifiable
assets at September 30, the provision for depreciation and
amortization and the amount of capital expenditures for property
for the years ended September 30 for each of the reportable
segments and Corporate (in millions):

Identifiable assets at Corporate consist
principally of cash, net deferred income tax assets, property
and the 50 percent ownership interest in RSC.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

20.     Business
Segment Information — (Continued)

The Company conducts a significant portion of its
business activities outside the United States. The following
tables reflect geographic sales and property by geographic
region (in millions):

Sales are attributed to the geographic regions
based on the country of destination.

21.     Quarterly
Financial Information (Unaudited)

Net income for 2002 includes: (a) a charge
of $129 million ($108 million after tax, or
58 cents per diluted share) for the impairment of goodwill
and a trademark in connection with the adoption of SFAS 142
in the first quarter; (b) a reduction in the income tax
provision of $18 million, or 10 cents per diluted share,
from the resolution of certain tax matters in the second
quarter; (c) a reduction in the income tax provision of
$30 million, or 16 cents per diluted share, from the
favorable resolution of certain tax matters in the third
quarter; (d) income of $5 million ($4 million
after tax, or two cents per diluted share) from the favorable
settlement of intellectual property matters in the third
quarter; (e) income of $4 million ($3 million
after tax, or two cents per diluted share) from the favorable
settlement of intellectual property matters in the fourth
quarter and (f) a charge of $4 million
($3 million after tax, or two cents per diluted share)
related to an asset impairment and severance at FirstPoint
Contact in the fourth quarter.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

21.     Quarterly
Financial Information (Unaudited) —
(Continued)

Net income for 2001
includes: (a) charges of $69 million
($45 million after tax, or 25 cents per diluted share)
for costs associated with realignment actions in the third
quarter; (b) charges of $22 million ($15 million
after tax, or eight cents per diluted share) for costs
associated with realignment actions in the fourth quarter; and
(c) income of $18 million ($12 million after tax,
or six cents per diluted share) resulting from the favorable
settlement of an intellectual property matter in the fourth
quarter.


INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareowners of

Rockwell Automation, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet of Rockwell Automation, Inc. and subsidiaries as
of September 30, 2002 and 2001, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, shareowners’ equity,
cash flows, and comprehensive income for each of the three years
in the period ended September 30, 2002. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 15(a)(2). These financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Rockwell Automation, Inc. and subsidiaries
at September 30, 2002 and 2001, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended September 30, 2002, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

As described in Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, on October 1, 2001, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Milwaukee, Wisconsin

November 6, 2002


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial
    Disclosure.

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Company.

See the information under the captions

Election of Directors

and

Information as to
Nominees for Directors and Continuing Directors

in the
2003 Proxy Statement.

No nominee for director was selected pursuant to
any arrangement or understanding between the nominee and any
person other than the Company pursuant to which such person is
or was to be selected as a director or nominee. See also the
information with respect to executive officers of the Company
under Item 4a of Part I hereof.

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation.

See the information under the captions

Executive Compensation, Option Grants and Aggregated
Option Exercises and Fiscal Year-End Values

and

Retirement Plans

in the 2003 Proxy Statement.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters.

See the information under the captions

Voting Securities, Ownership by Management of Equity
Securities and Equity Compensation Plan Information

in
the 2003 Proxy Statement.

Item 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions.

See the information under the caption

Board
of Directors and Committees

in the 2003 Proxy Statement.

Item 14.

Controls
and Procedures.

Within the 90-day period prior to the date of
this report, Rockwell Automation carried out an evaluation,
under the supervision and with the participation of the
Company’s management, including its Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design
and operation of Rockwell Automation’s disclosure controls
and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14. Based
upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer concluded that Rockwell Automation’s
disclosure controls and procedures are effective to timely alert
them to material information relating to the Company (including
its consolidated subsidiaries) required to be included in
Rockwell Automation’s Exchange Act filings.

There were no significant changes in Rockwell
Automation’s internal controls or in other factors that
could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date
of their evaluation.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedule and Reports on
Form 8-K.

(a) Financial Statements, Financial
Statement Schedule and Exhibits.

(1)

Financial Statements (all financial statements
    listed below are those of the Company and its consolidated
    subsidiaries).

(2) Financial Statement Schedule for the
years ended September 30, 2002, 2001 and 2000.

Schedules not filed herewith are omitted because
    of the absence of conditions under which they are required or
    because the information called for is shown in the consolidated
    financial statements or notes thereto.

(3) Exhibits.

* Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


* Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


* Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


* Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


* Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


* Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


(b)     Reports on
Form 8-K.

The Company filed a current report on
    Form 8-K dated August 6, 2002 in respect of the
    Statements of Oath of Principal Executive Officer and Principal
    Financial Officer required by Securities Exchange Commission
    Order No. 4-460.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

ROCKWELL AUTOMATION, INC.

By

/s/ MICHAEL A. BLESS

Michael A. Bless

Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

(principal financial officer)

By

/s/ WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.

William J. Calise, Jr.

Senior Vice President,

General Counsel and Secretary

By

/s/ DAVID M. DORGAN

David M. Dorgan

Vice President and Controller

(principal accounting officer)

Dated: November 25, 2002

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on the
25th day of November 2002 by the following persons on behalf of
the registrant and in the capacities indicated.

*By

/s/ WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.

William J. Calise, Jr.,
    Attorney-in-fact**

**By authority of powers of attorney filed
herewith


CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER

I, Don H. Davis, Jr., Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer of Rockwell Automation, Inc., certify
that:

a) designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the
    registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of
    registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the
    equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls which could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated
    in this annual report whether there were significant changes in
    internal controls or in other factors that could significantly
    affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most
    recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard
    to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

/s/ DON H. DAVIS, JR.

Don H. Davis, Jr.

Chairman of the Board

and Chief Executive Officer

Date: November 25, 2002


CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL
OFFICER

I, Michael A. Bless, Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of Rockwell Automation, Inc., certify
that:

a) designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have
    disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the
    registrant’s auditors and the audit committee of
    registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the
    equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls which could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6.     The
    registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated
    in this annual report whether there were significant changes in
    internal controls or in other factors that could significantly
    affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most
    recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard
    to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

/s/ MICHAEL A. BLESS

Michael A. Bless

Senior Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

Date: November 25, 2002


SCHEDULE II

ROCKWELL AUTOMATION, INC.

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the Years Ended September 30, 2002,
2001 and 2000

(a)

Includes allowances for current and other
    long-term receivables.

(b)

Consists principally of amounts written off for
    the allowance for doubtful accounts and excess and obsolete
    inventory and adjustments resulting from the Company’s
    ability to utilize foreign tax credit carryforwards for which a
    valuation allowance had been recorded.

S-1

INDEX TO EXHIBITS