10-K


y92046ke10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended September 30,
2003. Commission file number 1-12383

Rockwell Automation, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code:

(414) 212-5299 (Office of the
Secretary)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).     Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of registrant’s
voting stock held by non-affiliates of registrant on
March 31, 2003 was approximately $3.8 billion.

186,430,888 shares of registrant’s
Common Stock, par value $1 per share, were outstanding on
November 30, 2003.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain information contained in the Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners of registrant to
be held on February 4, 2004 is incorporated by reference
into Part III hereof.


PART I

Item 1.

Business.

Rockwell Automation, Inc. (the Company or
Rockwell Automation), a Delaware corporation, is a leading
global provider of industrial automation power, control and
information products and services. The Company was incorporated
in 1996 and is the successor to the former Rockwell
International Corporation as the result of a tax-free
reorganization completed on December 6, 1996, pursuant to
which the Company divested its former aerospace and defense
businesses (the A&D Business) to The Boeing Company
(Boeing). The predecessor corporation was incorporated in 1928.
On September 30, 1997, the Company completed the spinoff of
its automotive component systems business into an independent,
separately traded, publicly held company named Meritor
Automotive, Inc. (Meritor). On July 7, 2000, Meritor and
Arvin Industries, Inc. merged to form ArvinMeritor, Inc.
(ArvinMeritor). On December 31, 1998, the Company completed
the spinoff of its semiconductor systems business (Semiconductor
Systems) into an independent, separately traded, publicly held
company named Conexant Systems, Inc. (Conexant). On
June 29, 2001, the Company completed the spinoff of its
Rockwell Collins avionics and communications business into an
independent, separately traded, publicly held company named
Rockwell Collins, Inc. (Rockwell Collins). As used herein, the
terms the “Company” or “Rockwell Automation”
include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context
indicates otherwise. Information included in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K refers to the Company’s continuing
businesses unless otherwise indicated.

Where reference is made in any Item of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K to information under specific
captions in Item 7,

Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

(MD&A)

, or in Item 8,

Consolidated
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

(the
Financial Statements), or to information in the Proxy Statement
for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners of the Company to be held
on February 4, 2004 (the 2004 Proxy Statement), such
information shall be deemed to be incorporated therein by such
reference.

The Company is organized based upon products and
services and has three operating segments: Control Systems,
Power Systems and FirstPoint Contact. Total Company sales in
2003 were $4.1 billion. Financial information with respect
to the Company’s business segments, including their
contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the
three years in the period ended September 30, 2003, is
contained under the caption

Results of Operations

in

MD&A

on page 18 hereof, and in Note 20 of
the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

in the
Financial Statements.

Control Systems

Control Systems is Rockwell Automation’s
largest operating segment with 2003 sales of $3.3 billion
(80 percent of total Company sales) and approximately
17,000 employees at September 30, 2003. Control
Systems is a supplier of industrial automation products,
systems, software and services focused on helping customers
control and improve manufacturing processes and is divided into
three units: the Components and Packaged Applications Group
(CPAG), the Automation Control and Information Group
(ACIG) and Global Manufacturing Solutions (GMS).

CPAG produces industrial components, power
control and motor management products and packaged and
engineered products. It supplies both electro-mechanical and
solid-state products, including motor starters and contactors,
push buttons and signaling devices, termination and protection
devices, relays and timers, discrete and condition sensors and
variable speed drives. CPAG’s sales account for
approximately 40 percent of Control Systems’ sales.

ACIG’s products include programmable logic
controllers (PLCs). PLCs are used to automate the control and
monitoring of industrial plants and processes and typically
consist of a computer processor and input/output (I/O) devices.
The Company’s Logix integrated architecture integrates
multiple types of control disciplines, including discrete,
process, drive, motion and safety control across various factory
floor operating systems. ACIG also produces distributed I/O
platforms, high performance rotary and linear motion control


systems, electronic operator interface devices,
plant floor industrial computers and machine safety components.
ACIG’s sales account for approximately 40 percent of
Control Systems’ sales.

GMS provides multi-vendor automation and
information systems and solutions which help customers improve
their manufacturing operations. Solutions include multi-vendor
customer support, training, software, consulting and
implementation, asset management, and manufacturing information
solutions for discrete and targeted batch process industries.
GMS’s sales account for approximately 20 percent of
Control Systems’ sales.

Control Systems has competitors which, depending
on the product or service involved, range from large diversified
businesses that sell products outside of automation, to smaller
companies specializing in niche products and services. Major
competitors include ABB, Ltd., Emerson Electric Co., General
Electric Company, Schneider Electric SA and Siemens AG. Factors
that affect Control Systems’ competitive posture are its
broad product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology
leadership, knowledge of customer applications, large installed
base, established distribution network, quality of products and
services and global presence.

Control Systems’ products are marketed
primarily under the Allen-Bradley, Rockwell Automation and
Rockwell Software brand names. Major markets served include
consumer products, transportation, petrochemical and mining,
metals and forest products.

In North America, Control Systems’ products
are sold primarily through independent distributors that
generally do not carry products that compete with Allen-Bradley
products. Large systems and service offerings are sold
principally through a direct sales force, though opportunities
are sometimes sourced through distributors. Product sales
outside the United States occur through a combination of direct
sales forces and distributors.

In 2003, sales in the United States accounted for
58 percent of Control Systems’ sales. Outside the
U.S., Control Systems’ primary markets were Canada, the
United Kingdom, Italy, Germany, China and Korea.

Power Systems

Power Systems recorded 2003 sales of
$705 million (17 percent of total Company sales) and
had approximately 4,000 employees at September 30,
2003. Power Systems is divided into two units: the Mechanical
Power Transmission Business (Mechanical) and the Industrial
Motor and Drive Business (Electrical).

Mechanical’s products include mounted
bearings, gear reducers, standard mechanical drives, conveyor
pulleys, couplings, bushings, clutches and motor brakes.
Electrical’s products include industrial and engineered
motors and standard AC and DC drives. In addition, Electrical
provides product repair, motor and mechanical maintenance
solutions, plant maintenance, training and consulting services
to OEMs, end users and distributors.

Mechanical’s products are marketed primarily
under the Dodge brand name while Electrical’s products are
marketed primarily under the Reliance Electric brand name. Major
markets served include mining, air handling, aggregates,
environmental, forestry, food/beverage, petrochemicals, metals
and unit handling.

Power Systems has competitors which, depending on
the product involved, range from large diversified businesses
that sell products outside of automation, to smaller companies
specializing in niche products and services. Major competitors
include ABB Ltd., A. O. Smith Corporation, Baldor
Electric Company, Emerson Electric Co., General Electric
Company, Regal-Beloit Corporation, Rexnord Corporation and
Siemens AG. Factors that affect Power Systems’ competitive
posture are product quality, installed base and its established
distributor network. However, Power Systems’ competitive
posture is limited somewhat by its relatively small
international presence.

Mechanical’s products are sold primarily
through distributors while Electrical’s products are sold
primarily through a direct sales force.


In 2003, sales in the United States accounted for
89 percent of Power Systems’ sales. Outside the U.S.,
Power Systems’ primary markets were Canada, Mexico and
China.

FirstPoint Contact

FirstPoint Contact recorded 2003 sales of
$112 million (3 percent of total Company sales) and
had approximately 500 employees at September 30, 2003.
FirstPoint Contact provides customer contact center solutions
that support multiple channels (voice, e-mail, web, wireless)
through open interaction infrastructure. Products include
automatic call distributors, computer telephony integration
software, information collection, reporting, queuing and
management systems, call center systems and consulting services.

Major markets served include telecommunications,
financial, transportation and retail. FirstPoint Contact sells
through a direct sales force and increasingly through
distribution channels.

FirstPoint Contact faces competition from other
companies selling both hardware and software in the customer
contact market ranging from major multinationals to small
companies specializing in niche products and services. Major
competitors include Apropos Technology, Inc., Aspect
Communications Corporation, Avaya, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc. and
Nortel Networks Corporation. Factors that affect FirstPoint
Contact’s competitive position include product quality and
reliability, and reputation. However, FirstPoint Contact’s
competitive position is somewhat inhibited by its limited
available resources to devote to research and development
activities relative to certain competitors.

In 2003, sales in the United States accounted for
72 percent of FirstPoint Contact’s sales. Outside the
U.S., FirstPoint Contact’s primary markets were the United
Kingdom, South Africa and Canada.

Acquisitions and Divestitures

The Company regularly considers the acquisition
or development of new businesses and reviews the prospects of
its existing businesses to determine whether any should be
modified, sold or otherwise discontinued.

Acquisitions

During 2003, Control Systems acquired
substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities
of Interwave Technology, Inc. (Interwave), a consulting
integrator focusing on manufacturing solutions, and acquired
certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of
Weidmüller Holding AG’s (Weidmüller) North
American business. In addition, the Company entered into a
master brand label agreement, a technology/ design exchange and
joint product development efforts with Weidmüller. The
total cost of these acquisitions was approximately
$26 million. The acquisition of Interwave expands the
Company’s Manufacturing Information Solutions capability
and accelerates its ability to integrate real-time information
between customers’ manufacturing plant floors and business
systems. The Weidmüller transaction enhances the
Company’s position in providing IEC (an international
standard for electrical technologies) connection products which
are used to connect factory automation systems to basic
electrical switches.

During 2002, Control Systems acquired all of the
stock of Tesch GmbH (Tesch), an electronic products and safety
relay manufacturer; all of the stock of Propack Data GmbH
(Propack), a provider of manufacturing information systems for
the pharmaceutical and other regulated industries; the assets
and certain liabilities of the controller division of Samsung
Electronics Company Limited’s Mechatronics business (the
Controller Division); and the engineering services and system
integration assets of SPEL, spol. s.r.o. (SPEL). The total cost
of these acquisitions was approximately $71 million. The
acquisition of Tesch expanded the Company’s machine safety
product and research and development capabilities. The
acquisition of Propack broadened the Company’s position in
the pharmaceuticals market, enhanced the Company’s Process
Solutions business, and enabled the Company to expand its reach
into the manufacturing information markets. The acquisition of
the Controller Division expanded the Company’s existing
operations in Korea, furthered the Company’s design and
product development capabilities and supported future commercial
and operational expansion in the Asia-Pacific region. The
acquisition of SPEL accelerated the establishment of the Company
as a complete


solution provider in Central Europe; it also
strategically located the Company in a region with future growth
opportunities.

In connection with the Interwave,
Weidmüller, and Controller Division transactions, the
Company would be required to make additional cash payments if
certain future operating performance criteria are met by the
acquired businesses. Management believes that these additional
cash payments, if any, would not have a material effect on the
Company’s financial position, results of operations or
shareowners’ equity.

Divestitures

In the second quarter of 2003, the Company sold a
majority of its ownership interest in Reliance Electric Limited
Japan (REJ), resulting in a loss of approximately
$8 million ($3 million after tax, or 1 cent per
diluted share). The after-tax loss on the sale included a
$2 million benefit resulting from the Company’s
ability to utilize capital loss carryforwards for which a
valuation allowance had been previously provided. The cash
proceeds from the transaction totaled approximately
$10 million.

On June 29, 2001, the Company completed the
spinoff of its Rockwell Collins avionics and communications
business into an independent, separately traded, publicly held
company by distributing all of the outstanding shares of common
stock of Rockwell Collins to the Company’s shareowners on
the basis of one Rockwell Collins share for each outstanding
Rockwell Automation share. At the time of the spinoff, Rockwell
Collins made a special payment to the Company of
$300 million. Following the spinoff, the Company and
Rockwell Collins each have owned 50 percent of Rockwell
Scientific Company LLC (RSC) (formerly a wholly-owned subsidiary
of the Company known as Rockwell Science Center). The results of
operations for Rockwell Collins for 2001 have been presented in
the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations included
in the Financial Statements as income from discontinued
operations.

Additional information relating to acquisitions
and divestitures is contained in Notes 2 and 15 of the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

in the
Financial Statements.

Geographic Information

The Company’s principal markets outside the
United States are in Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy,
China, Mexico, and Korea. In addition to normal business risks,
operations outside the United States are subject to other risks
including, among other factors, political, economic and social
environments, governmental laws and regulations and currency
revaluations and fluctuations.

Selected financial information by major
geographic area for each of the three years in the period ended
September 30, 2003 is contained in Note 20 of the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

in the
Financial Statements.

Research and Development

The Company’s research and development
spending is summarized as follows:

Customer-sponsored research and development was
$61 million in 2001 and related primarily to the
Company’s formerly wholly-owned (now 50 percent owned)
subsidiary, Rockwell Science Center. Customer-sponsored research
and development was not material in 2003 and 2002.


Employees

At September 30, 2003, the Company had
approximately 21,500 employees. Approximately 14,500 were
employed in the United States, and, of these employees, about
8 percent were represented by various local or national
unions.

Raw Materials and Supplies

Raw materials essential to the conduct of each of
the Company’s business segments generally are available at
competitive prices. Many items of equipment and components used
in the production of the Company’s products are purchased
from others. Although the Company has a broad base of suppliers
and subcontractors, it is dependent upon the ability of its
suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality
specifications and delivery schedules.

Backlog

The Company’s total order backlog was
approximately $500 million at September 30, 2003 and
2002. Backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of
operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of
most of the Company’s products.

Environmental Protection
Requirements

Information with respect to the effect on the
Company and its manufacturing operations of compliance with
environmental protection requirements and resolution of
environmental claims is contained in Note 19 of the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

in the
Financial Statements. See also Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

, on page 6 hereof.

Patents, Licenses and Trademarks

Numerous patents and patent applications are
owned or licensed by the Company and utilized in its activities
and manufacturing operations. Various claims of patent
infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been
made to the Company. Management believes that none of these
claims will have a material adverse effect on the financial
condition of the Company. See Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

, on page 6 hereof. While in the
aggregate the Company’s patents and licenses are considered
important in the operation of its business, management does not
consider them of such importance that loss or termination of any
one of them would materially affect the Company’s business
or financial condition.

The Company’s name and its registered
trademark “Rockwell Automation” is important to each
of its business segments. In addition, the Company owns other
important trademarks applicable to only certain of its products,
such as “Allen-Bradley” and “A-B” for
electronic controls and systems for industrial automation,
“Reliance” and “Reliance Electric” for
electric motors and drives and “Dodge” for mechanical
power transmission products.

Seasonality

None of the Company’s business segments is
seasonal.

Available Information

The Company maintains an Internet site at

http://www.rockwellautomation.com

. The Company’s
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments
to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as well as the annual report to shareowners and
Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, are available
free of charge on this site as soon as reasonably practicable
after the Company files or furnishes these reports with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Company’s
Guidelines on Corporate Governance and charters for its Board
Committees are also available at the Company’s Internet
site. The Guidelines and charters are also available in print to
any shareowner upon request. The Company’s Internet site
and the information contained therein or connected thereto are
not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.


Item 2.

Properties.

At September 30, 2003, the Company operated
69 plants and research and development facilities,
principally in North America. The Company also had approximately
350 sales offices, warehouses and service centers. The
aggregate floor space of the Company’s facilities was
approximately 15 million square feet. Of this floor space,
approximately 65 percent was owned by the Company and
approximately 35 percent was leased. Manufacturing space
occupied approximately 8 million square feet, with the
Control Systems segment occupying approximately 5 million
square feet and Power Systems occupying the remaining
approximately 3 million square feet. At September 30,
2003, approximately 1 million square feet of floor space
was not in use, approximately 68 percent of which was in
owned facilities.

There are no major encumbrances (other than
financing arrangements which in the aggregate are not material)
on any of the Company’s plants or equipment. In the opinion
of management, the Company’s properties have been well
maintained, are in sound operating condition and contain all
equipment and facilities necessary to operate at present levels.

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings.

Rocky Flats Plant.

On January 30, 1990, a civil action was brought in the
United States District Court for the District of Colorado
against the Company and another former operator of the Rocky
Flats Plant (the Plant), Golden, Colorado, operated from 1975
through December 31, l989 by the Company for the Department
of Energy (DOE). The action alleges the improper production,
handling and disposal of radioactive and other hazardous
substances, constituting, among other things, violations of
various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations,
and misrepresentation and concealment of the facts relating
thereto. The plaintiffs, who purportedly represent two classes,
sought compensatory damages of $250 million for diminution
in value of real estate and other economic loss; the creation of
a fund of $150 million to finance medical monitoring and
surveillance services; exemplary damages of $300 million;
CERCLA response costs in an undetermined amount; attorneys’
fees; an injunction; and other proper relief. On
February 13, 1991, the court granted certain of the motions
of the defendants to dismiss the case. The plaintiffs
subsequently filed a new complaint, and on November 26,
1991, the court granted in part a renewed motion to dismiss. The
remaining portion of the case is pending before the court. On
October 8, 1993, the court certified separate medical
monitoring and property value classes. Effective August 1,
1996, the DOE assumed control of the defense of the contractor
defendants, including the Company, in the action. Beginning on
that date, the costs of the Company’s defense, which had
previously been reimbursed to the Company by the DOE, have been
and are being paid directly by the DOE. The Company believes
that it is entitled under applicable law and its contract with
the DOE to be indemnified for all costs and any liability
associated with this action.

On November 13, 1990, the Company was served
with a summons and complaint in another civil action brought
against the Company in the same court by James Stone, claiming
to act in the name of the United States, alleging violations of
the U.S. False Claims Act in connection with the
Company’s operation of the Plant (and seeking treble
damages and forfeitures) as well as a personal cause of action
for alleged wrongful termination of employment. On
August 8, 1991, the court dismissed the personal cause of
action. On December 6, 1995, the DOE notified the Company
that it would no longer reimburse costs incurred by the Company
in defense of the action. On November 19, 1996, the court
granted the Department of Justice leave to intervene in the case
on the government’s behalf. On April 1, 1999 a jury
awarded the plaintiffs approximately $1.4 million in
damages. On May 18, 1999, the court entered judgment
against the Company for approximately $4.2 million,
trebling the jury’s award as required by the False Claims
Act, and imposing a civil penalty of $15,000. If the judgment is
affirmed on appeal, Mr. Stone may also be entitled to an
award of attorney’s fees but the court refused to consider
the matter until appeals from the judgment have been exhausted.
On September 24, 2001, a panel of the 10th Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment. On November 2,
2001, the Company filed a petition for rehearing with the Court
of Appeals seeking reconsideration of that portion of the
decision holding that the relator, Mr. Stone, is entitled to an
award of attorneys’ fees, and on March 4, 2002, the
Court of Appeals remanded the case to the trial court for the
limited purpose of making findings of fact and conclusions of
law pertaining to Mr. Stone’s relator status.
Management believes that an outcome adverse to the Company will
not have a material effect on the


Company’s business or financial condition.
The Company believes that it is entitled under applicable law
and its contract with the DOE to be indemnified for all costs
and any liability associated with this action, and intends to
file a claim with the DOE seeking reimbursement thereof at the
conclusion of the litigation.

On January 8, 1991, the Company filed suit
in the United States Claims Court against the DOE, seeking
recovery of $6.5 million of award fees to which the Company
alleges it is entitled under the terms of its contract with the
DOE for management and operation of the Plant during the period
October 1, 1988 through September 30, 1989. On
July 17, 1996, the government filed an amended answer and
counterclaim against the Company alleging violations of the
U.S. False Claims Act previously asserted in the civil
action described in the preceding paragraph. On March 20,
1997, the court stayed the case pending disposition of the civil
action described in the preceding paragraph. On August 30,
1999, the court continued the stay pending appeal in that civil
action. The Company believes the government’s counterclaim
is without merit, and believes it is entitled under applicable
law and its contract with the DOE to be indemnified for any
liability associated with the counterclaim.

On September 28, 1995, the Company filed an
appeal with the Department of Energy Board of Contract Appeals
(“EBCA”) from DOE’s denial of claims totaling
$10 million for costs incurred in relation to a 1989
federal grand jury investigation of possible environmental
crimes at the DOE’s Rocky Flats plant. During pre-trial
proceedings, the EBCA bifurcated proceedings so as to consider
the Company’s entitlement to reimbursement of costs of the
sort claimed before determining the amount of any award. On
October 31, 2001, the EBCA ruled that the Company was
entitled to reimbursement of the types of costs claimed. On
April 16, 2003, the United States Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit affirmed the EBCA decision. The period during
which the government could have appealed this decision has
lapsed. The Court of Appeals remanded the case to the EBCA for
such further action as may be appropriate in light of its
decision.

Russellville.

On
June 24, 1996, judgment was entered against the Company in
a civil action in the Circuit Court of Logan County, Kentucky on
a jury verdict awarding $8 million in compensatory and
$210 million in punitive damages for property damage. The
action had been brought August 12, 1993 by owners of flood
plain real property near Russellville, Kentucky allegedly
damaged by polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) discharged from a
plant owned and operated by the Company’s
Measurement & Flow Control Division prior to its
divestiture in March 1989. On January 14, 2000, the
Kentucky Court of Appeals reversed the lower court’s
judgment and directed entry of judgment in the Company’s
favor on all claims as a matter of law. On May 16, 2002,
the Kentucky Supreme Court affirmed the Court of Appeals’
exclusion of certain of the plaintiffs’ evidence but
reversed the judgment of dismissal on the ground that the proper
remedy is a new trial on plaintiffs’ claims, but only after
and to the extent required following disposition of numerous
other issues that were before the Court of Appeals but not
resolved in its original decision. The case was remanded to the
Court of Appeals for further proceedings, and on August 8,
2003, the Court of Appeals issued a second decision holding that
the amounts of PCBs alleged by plaintiffs to have contaminated
their properties were insufficient to constitute an actionable
injury under Kentucky law, thus requiring dismissal of
plaintiffs’ suit with prejudice. On September 8, 2003,
plaintiffs filed a petition for discretionary review with the
Kentucky Supreme Court.

On March 24, 1997, the Circuit Court of
Franklin County, Kentucky in

Commonwealth of Kentucky,
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet
vs. Rockwell

, an action filed in 1986 seeking
remediation of PCB contamination resulting from unpermitted
discharges of PCBs from the Company’s former Russellville,
Kentucky plant, entered judgment establishing PCB cleanup levels
for the former plant site and certain offsite property and
ordering additional characterization of possible contamination
in the Mud River and its flood plain. The Court deferred any
decision on the imposition of fines and penalties pending
implementation of an appropriate remediation program. On
August 13, 1999, the Court of Appeals affirmed the trial
court’s judgment, a ruling that the Supreme Court of the
State of Kentucky has let stand. The Company has been proceeding
with remediation and characterization efforts consistent with
the trial Court’s ruling.

Solaia Technology LLC.

The Company is a party in several
suits in which Solaia Technology LLC is adverse. Solaia is a
single-purpose entity formed to license US Patent
No. 5,038,318 (the ’318 patent). Solaia


acquired the ’318 patent from Schneider
Automation, Inc., a competitor of the Company in the field of
factory automation. Schneider has retained certain interests in
the ’318 patent, including a share in Solaia’s
licensing income. Solaia has asserted that the
’318 patent covers communication systems used
throughout most modern factories in the United States.

Solaia has issued several hundred demand letters
to a wide range of factory owners and operators, and has filed a
series of lawsuits against about 30 companies. A
significant number of the companies sued by Solaia have chosen
to settle the claims for amounts that the Company believes are
notably smaller than the likely legal costs of successfully
defending Solaia’s claims in court.

The Company has sought to protect its customers
from Solaia’s claims, which the Company believes to be
altogether without merit and baseless. The Company brought an
action in Milwaukee on December 10, 2002 against Solaia and
others,

Rockwell Automation, Inc., et al.
v. Schneider Automation, Inc., et al.

(02-CV-1195,
E.D. Wis.), asserting the objective baselessness of the
claims Solaia has made against Rockwell’s customers and
seeking monetary damages and other relief under state and
federal laws.

In January 2003, Solaia and its law firm, Niro,
Scavone, Haller & Niro, filed a lawsuit in Chicago
against the Company and several others,

Solaia Technology LLC
v. Rockwell Automation, Inc., et al.

,
Case No. 03-CV-566, alleging federal antitrust and
unfair competition violations, defamation and other claims. The
Company denies any liability under that claim.

In a suit filed by Solaia in Chicago, Illinois,

Solaia Technology LLC v. ArvinMeritor, Inc., et al.

(02C-4704, N.D. Ill.), the Company sought to intervene
on behalf of its customers wrongly accused of infringement. On
April 23, 2003, the Company made arrangements with
ArvinMeritor, which now owns and operates the Company’s
former automotive business, to undertake its defense of
Solaia’s patent claims to ensure that Solaia’s
infringement claim against ArvinMeritor could be finally and
actually adjudicated in the Chicago patent suit and thereby
remove the continuing threat of additional lawsuits from Solaia
against American manufacturers. In that case, Solaia responded
on May 12, 2003 by suing the Company for direct patent
infringement, demanding material monetary damages. As with the
claims made against its customers, the Company believes that
Solaia’s claim against it is wholly without merit and
baseless.

The Court in Milwaukee has recently denied all of
the defendants’ (Solaia) motions to dismiss the
Company’s claims against them. The Chicago Court has
transferred Solaia’s antitrust case against the Company to
Milwaukee where it is expected to be consolidated with the
Company’s pending suit against Solaia and others. It is
unclear whether the Milwaukee cases will go forward, be stayed
pending the outcome of the Chicago patent case, or be
transferred to Chicago.

Other.

Like
thousands of other companies, the Company (including certain of
its subsidiaries) has been named as a defendant in lawsuits
alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos
that was used in certain components of the Company’s
products many years ago. Currently there are thousands of
claimants in lawsuits that name the Company together with
hundreds of other companies as defendants. Most of the
complaints, however, do not identify any of the Company’s
products or specify which of the claimants, if any, were exposed
to asbestos attributable to the Company’s products; and
past experience has shown that the vast majority of the
claimants will never identify any of the Company’s
products. In addition, when products of the Company appear to be
identified, they are frequently from divested businesses, and
the Company is indemnified for most of the costs. For those
claimants who do show that they worked with the Company’s
products, we nevertheless believe we have meritorious defenses,
in substantial part due to the integrity of the Company’s
products, the encapsulated nature of any asbestos-containing
components, and the lack of any impairing medical condition on
the part of many claimants. The Company defends those cases
vigorously. Historically, the Company has been dismissed from
most (approximately 95%) of these claims with no payment to
claimants. The Company has maintained insurance coverage that it
believes covers indemnity and defense costs, over and above
self-insurance retentions, for most of the claims where there is
any exposure to the Company’s products. The Company does
not believe these lawsuits will have a material adverse effect
on its financial condition.


Various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings
have been or may be instituted or asserted against the Company
relating to the conduct of its business, including those
pertaining to product liability, environmental, safety and
health, intellectual property, employment and contract matters.
Although the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with
certainty and some lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be
disposed of unfavorably to the Company, management believes the
disposition of matters which are pending or asserted will not
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business or
financial condition.

Item 4.

Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

No matters were submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fourth quarter of 2003.

Item 4a.

Executive
Officers of the Company.

The name, age, office and position held with the
Company and principal occupations and employment during the past
five years of each of the executive officers of the Company as
of October 31, 2003 are as follows:


There are no family relationships, as defined by
applicable SEC rules, between any of the above executive
officers. No officer of the Company was selected pursuant to any
arrangement or understanding between the officer and any person
other than the Company. All executive officers are elected
annually.


PART II

Item 5.

Market
for the Company’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters.

The principal market on which the Company’s
common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. The
Company’s common stock is also traded on the Pacific
Exchange and The London Stock Exchange. On November 30,
2003, there were 39,021 shareowners of record of the
Company’s common stock.

The following table sets forth the high and low
sales price of the Company’s common stock on the New York
Stock Exchange — Composite Transactions reporting
system during each quarter of the Company’s fiscal years
ended September 30, 2003 and 2002:

The declaration and payment of dividends by the
Company is at the sole discretion of the Company’s board of
directors. The following table sets forth the aggregate cash
dividends per common share (paid quarterly) during each of the
Company’s last three fiscal years:

(1)

Prior to the spinoff of Rockwell Collins, the
    Company paid quarterly cash dividends, which, on an annual
    basis, equaled $1.02 per share. Since the spinoff of Rockwell
    Collins, the Company has paid quarterly cash dividends which, on
    an annual basis, equal $0.66 per share. Per share dividend
    amounts indicated above do not include dividends paid on the
    shares of Rockwell Collins received on June 29, 2001 by
    Rockwell Automation shareowners.


Item 6.

Selected Financial Data.

The following table sets forth selected
consolidated financial data of the Company’s continuing
operations. The data should be read in conjunction with

MD&A

and the Financial Statements. The consolidated
statement of operations data for each of the five years in the
period ended September 30, 2003, the related consolidated
balance sheet data and other data have been derived from the
audited consolidated financial statements of the Company.


(f)

Effective October 1, 2001, the Company
    adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

(SFAS 142). As a result of adopting SFAS 142, the
    Company no longer amortizes goodwill and certain trademarks that
    have been deemed to have an indefinite useful life, resulting in
    a decrease in amortization expense beginning in 2002. In
    addition, in 2002 the Company recorded pre-tax charges of
    $56 million related to a trademark impairment and
    $73 million related to goodwill impairment in connection
    with the adoption of SFAS 142. These charges have been
    recorded as the cumulative effect of accounting change in the
    amount of $129 million ($108 million after tax, or
    58 cents per diluted share).


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates

The consolidated financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States which require the Company to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial
statements and revenues and expenses during the periods
reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The
Company believes the following are the critical accounting
policies which could have the most significant effect on the
Company’s reported results and require subjective or
complex judgments by management.

Revenue Recognition

Sales are generally recorded when all of the
following have occurred: an agreement of sale exists, product
delivery and acceptance has occurred or services have been
rendered, pricing is fixed or determinable, and collection is
reasonably assured.

Contracts and customer purchase orders are
generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement.
Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are
used to verify delivery. The Company assesses whether the fee is
fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with
the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund
or adjustment. The Company assesses collectibility based
primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined
by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customer’s
payment history.

The Company records accruals for customer
returns, rebates and incentives at the time of sale to a
customer based upon historical experience. Additional accruals
may be required if actual returns, rebates and incentives differ
from historical experience. The accrual for rebates and
incentives to customers was $75 million at
September 30, 2003 and $74 million at
September 30, 2002, of which $5 million at
September 30, 2003 and $6 million at
September 30, 2002 was included as an offset to accounts
receivable.

Allowance for Doubtful
    Accounts

The Company records allowances for doubtful
accounts based on customer-specific analysis and general matters
such as current assessments of past due balances and economic
conditions. Additional allowances for doubtful accounts may be
required if there is deterioration in past due balances, if
economic conditions are less favorable than the Company has
anticipated or for customer-specific circumstances, such as
financial difficulty. During 2002, the Company recorded an
allowance of approximately $9 million to fully reserve a
receivable due to the deterioration in the financial condition
of one of its independent distributors. The allowance for
doubtful accounts was $28 million at September 30,
2003 and $45 million at September 30, 2002. The
decrease in the allowance balance primarily relates to the
writeoff of the $9 million distributor receivable and
$3 million of account collections for which an allowance
had previously been provided. The remainder of the decrease
resulted from the Company’s regular review of the
allowance, considering such factors as historical experience,
credit quality and age of the accounts receivable balances.

Excess and Obsolete Inventory

The Company records allowances for excess and
obsolete inventory based on historical and estimated future
demand and market conditions. Additional inventory allowances
may be required if future demand or market conditions are less
favorable than the Company has estimated. The allowance for
excess and obsolete inventory was $56 million at
September 30, 2003 and $53 million at
September 30, 2002.

Impairment of Long-Lived
    Assets

The Company evaluates the recoverability of the
carrying amount of long-lived assets whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
may not be fully recoverable. The Company evaluates the
recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives annually or more frequently if events or
circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. The
Company


uses judgment when applying the impairment rules
to determine when an impairment test is necessary. Factors the
Company considers which could trigger an impairment review
include significant underperformance relative to historical or
forecasted operating results, a significant decrease in the
market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or
manner in which an asset is used and significant negative
industry or economic trends.

Impairment losses are measured as the amount by
which the carrying value of an asset exceeds its estimated fair
value. To determine fair value, the Company is required to make
estimates of its future cash flows related to the asset subject
to review. These estimates require assumptions about demand for
the Company’s products and services, future market
conditions and technological developments. Other assumptions
include determining the discount rate and future growth rates.
During 2002, the Company recorded pre-tax impairment charges of
$129 million ($108 million after tax) in connection
with the adoption of SFAS 142. Additional information
regarding the impairment charges is contained in Note 3 of
the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

in the
Financial Statements.

Product Warranty Obligations

The Company records a liability for product
warranty obligations at the time of sale to a customer based
upon historical warranty experience. The Company also records a
liability for specific warranty matters when they become known
and are reasonably estimable. An additional provision for
product warranty obligations may be required if actual product
performance is less favorable than anticipated. The liability
for product warranty obligations was $29 million at
September 30, 2003 and $31 million at
September 30, 2002.

Retirement Benefits

Pension Benefits

Pension costs and obligations are actuarially
determined and are affected by annually reviewed assumptions
including discount rate, the expected rate of return on plan
assets and assumed annual rate of compensation increase for plan
employees, among other factors. Changes in the discount rate and
differences between the assumptions made and actual experience
will affect the amount of pension expense recognized in future
periods.

Pension expense in fiscal 2003 was
$42 million compared to $25 million in fiscal 2002.
Fiscal 2003 pension expense was determined using the following
actuarial assumptions: discount rate of 7.0 percent
(compared to 7.5 percent for fiscal 2002); expected rate of
return on plan assets of 8.5 percent (compared to
9.0 percent for fiscal 2002); and an assumed rate of
compensation increase of 4.5 percent (compared to
4.5 percent for fiscal 2002). All other factors being
equal, these changes were the primary cause of the incremental
pension expense in 2003 over 2002 of approximately
$17 million. For fiscal year 2004, the Company is assuming
an expected rate of return on plan assets of 8.5 percent
and a discount rate of 6.0 percent for determining net
periodic benefit cost. All other factors being equal, and
assuming actual experience is consistent with the actuarial
assumptions, the Company expects fiscal year 2004 pension
expense to increase by approximately $24 million compared
to fiscal 2003. This increase is primarily attributable to the
change in the discount rate and includes the recognition of
actuarial losses related primarily to the accumulated difference
between actual and expected returns on pension plan assets.

In June 2003, the Company made a $50 million
voluntary contribution to the Company’s primary U.S.
qualified pension plan trust compared to a 2002 contribution of
$24 million which was related to the spinoff of Rockwell
Collins. In addition, while not required to contribute any
amount to the Company’s primary U.S. qualified pension plan
trust in fiscal 2004, the Company may choose to contribute up to
the maximum allowable tax deductible contribution of
approximately $200 million. The Company currently
anticipates making a contribution during fiscal 2004 to the
primary U.S. qualified pension plan trust in an amount that
approximates the 2003 contribution.


Additional information regarding pension
benefits, including the Company’s pension obligation and
minimum pension liability adjustment, is contained in
Note 13 of the

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements

in the Financial Statements.

Other Postretirement Benefits

The costs and obligations for postretirement
benefits other than pension are also actuarially determined and
are affected by assumptions, including the discount rate.
Changes in the discount rate may affect the recorded amount of
the expense in future periods. Effective October 1, 2002,
the Company amended its primary U.S. postretirement health care
benefit program in order to mitigate the Company’s share of
the increasing cost of postretirement health care services. This
change reduced the benefit obligation by $86 million. Net
periodic benefit cost in 2003 was approximately $29 million
compared to $28 million in 2002. Net periodic benefit cost
in 2004 is expected to be $23 million, which reflects the full
year effect on expense of the October 1, 2002 plan
amendment. Additional information regarding postretirement
benefits is contained in Note 13 of the

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements

in the Financial
Statements.

Self-Insurance Liabilities

The Company’s self-insurance programs
include primarily product liability and workers’
compensation. For product liability and workers’
compensation, the Company self-insures from the first dollar of
loss up to specified retention levels. Eligible losses in excess
of self-insurance retention levels and up to stated limits of
liability are covered by policies purchased from third-party
insurers. The aggregate self-insurance liability is estimated
using the Company’s claims experience and risk exposure
levels for the periods being valued. Adjustments to the
self-insured liabilities may be required to reflect emerging
claims experience and other factors such as inflationary trends
or jury awards. The liability for these self-insurance programs
was $51 million at September 30, 2003 and
$48 million at September 30, 2002.

Litigation, Claims and
    Contingencies

The Company records liabilities for litigation,
claims and contingencies when an obligation is probable and when
the Company has a basis to reasonably estimate the value of an
obligation. The Company also records environmental liabilities
based on estimates for known environmental remediation exposures
utilizing information received from independent environmental
consultants. The liabilities include accruals for sites owned by
the Company and third-party sites where the Company was
determined to be a potentially responsible party. At third-party
sites where more than one potentially responsible party has been
identified, the Company records a liability for its estimated
allocable share of costs related to its involvement with the
site as well as an estimated allocable share of costs related to
the involvement of insolvent or unidentified parties. At
environmental sites in which the Company is the only responsible
party, a liability is recorded for the total estimated costs of
remediation. Future expenditures for environmental remediation
obligations are not discounted to their present value.
Environmental liability estimates may be affected by changing
determinations of what constitutes an environmental exposure or
an acceptable level of cleanup. To the extent that remediation
procedures change, additional contamination is identified, or
the financial condition of other potentially responsible parties
is adversely affected, the estimate of the Company’s
environmental liabilities may change.

The liability for environmental matters, net of
related receivables, was $29 million at September 30,
2003 and $28 million at September 30, 2002. This
includes an adjustment made during the fourth quarter of 2003 to
increase the environmental reserve by approximately
$5 million due to higher estimated future costs for
environmental remediation near the Russellville, Kentucky
facility of the Company’s former Measurement and Flow
Control business.

Also during the fourth quarter of 2003, the
Company recognized income, reflected in discontinued operations,
of approximately $7 million ($4 million after tax)
from a favorable determination in a legal proceeding related to
the Company’s former operation of the Rocky Flats facility
of the Department of Energy.


Additional information regarding litigation,
claims and contingencies is contained in Note 19 of the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

in the
Financial Statements. See also Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings,

on page 6 hereof.

Income Taxes

The Company records a liability for potential tax
assessments based on its estimate of the potential exposure. The
liability for potential tax assessments may be affected by new
laws and new interpretations of laws and rulings by tax
authorities, among other reasons. Due to the subjectivity and
complex nature of the underlying issues, actual payments or
assessments may differ from estimates. To the extent the
Company’s estimates differ from actual payments or
assessments, income tax expense is adjusted. During 2002, the
Company resolved certain matters from previous years resulting
in a $48 million reduction of its income tax provision.
Additional information regarding income taxes is contained in
Note 18 of the

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements

in the Financial Statements.

The Company has recorded a valuation allowance of
$47 million at September 30, 2003 for the majority of
its deferred tax assets related to net operating loss
carryforwards, capital loss carryforwards and state tax credit
carryforwards (Carryforwards). The valuation allowance is based
on an evaluation of the uncertainty of the amounts of the
Carryforwards that are expected to be realized. An increase to
income would result if the Company determines it could utilize
more Carryforwards than originally expected.

At the end of each interim reporting period, the
Company estimates the effective tax rate expected to be
applicable for the full fiscal year. The estimated effective tax
rate contemplates the expected jurisdiction where income is
earned (e.g., United States compared to non-United States) as
well as tax planning strategies. If the actual results are
different from the Company’s estimates, adjustments to the
effective tax rate may be required in the period such
determination is made.


Results of Operations

Summary of Results of
    Operations

(a)

Other represents the sales and segment operating
    earnings of Rockwell Science Center through the third quarter of
    2001. Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2001, the
    Company’s 50 percent ownership interest in RSC is
    accounted for using the equity method, and the Company’s
    proportional share of RSC’s earnings or losses are included
    in general corporate-net.

(b)

Information with respect to the composition of
    segment operating earnings is contained in Note 20 of the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

in the
    Financial Statements.

(c)

Effective October 1, 2001, the Company
    adopted SFAS 142. As a result of adopting SFAS 142,
    the Company no longer amortizes goodwill and certain trademarks
    that have been deemed to have an indefinite useful life,
    resulting in a decrease in amortization expense in 2002. The
    2001 amortization of goodwill and indefinite life trademarks was
    $56 million. In addition, in 2002 the Company recorded
    pre-tax charges of $56 million related to a trademark
    impairment and $73 million related to goodwill impairment
    in connection with the adoption of SFAS 142. These charges
    have been recorded as the cumulative effect of accounting change
    in the amount of $129 million ($108 million after tax,
    or 58 cents per diluted share). The amount included in
    goodwill and purchase accounting items in 2003 and 2002 includes
    amortization expense for acquired intangible assets that have a
    finite life and depreciation expense for purchase accounting
    adjustments.


Demand for the Company’s products is largely
driven by trends in industrial spending. Sales are affected by
the level of industrial production activity, customers’ new
product introductions, upgrades and expansions of existing
manufacturing facilities and the creation of new manufacturing
facilities. Due to weak business conditions in recent years,
especially in the manufacturing economy, manufacturers have been
operating at historically low levels of plant capacity
utilization. This condition results in the tendency to defer
significant amounts of capital investment until the environment
improves. The table below depicts the trend since December 2000
in capacity utilization in the United States, as published by
the Federal Reserve, and in manufacturing activity in the United
States, as reflected by the purchasing managers’ index
(PMI), published by the Institute for Supply Management (ISM).
According to the ISM, a PMI measure above 50 indicates that the
manufacturing economy is generally expanding while a measure
below 50 indicates that it is generally contracting.

2003 Compared to 2002

Sales were $4,104 million in 2003, an
increase of 5 percent compared to $3,909 million in
2002. Three percentage points of the growth was due to the
effect of currency translation. Segment operating earnings for
2003 were $453 million, an increase of 19 percent
compared to $381 million in 2002. Income from continuing
operations before accounting change in 2003 was
$282 million, or $1.49 per diluted share, compared to
$226 million, or $1.20 per diluted share, in 2002. Net
income in 2003 was $286 million, or $1.51 per diluted
share, compared to $121 million, or 64 cents per
diluted share, in 2002. The 2003 results included a tax benefit
of $69 million, or 37 cents per diluted share, related
to the settlement of a U.S. federal research and experimentation
credit refund claim. The 2002 results included a tax benefit of
$48 million, or 26 cents per diluted share, from the
resolution of certain tax matters for the period 1995-1999 and a
charge of $129 million ($108 million after tax, or
58 cents per diluted share) related to the adoption of
SFAS 142.

Control Systems

Control Systems’ sales in 2003 were
$3,287 million, an increase of 7 percent compared to
$3,060 million in 2002. More than 3 percentage points
of the sales increase was due to the favorable impact of
currency translation, primarily resulting from the relative
strength of the euro to the U.S. dollar. Sales outside of
the U.S. increased 18 percent (9 percent excluding
currency translation) (see

Supplemental Sales Information

on page 27) and U.S. sales increased 1 percent.
The Company’s Logix and Process Solutions businesses each


grew approximately 30 percent over 2002. The
Company’s Global Manufacturing Solutions business grew
approximately 5 percent over 2002.

Segment operating earnings were $398 million
in 2003, an increase of 23 percent compared to
$324 million in 2002. The increase was due to higher volume
and the continuing benefits of cost reduction actions. Control
Systems’ return on sales in 2003 was 12.1 percent
compared to 10.6 percent in 2002.

Power
Systems

Power Systems’ sales in 2003 were
$705 million compared to $716 million in 2002.
Mechanical sales increased 3 percent while Electrical sales
decreased 5 percent. Segment operating earnings were
$54 million in 2003 compared to $53 million in 2002.
Segment operating earnings remained relatively stable despite
the decrease in sales due to savings from cost reduction
efforts. Power Systems’ return on sales was
7.7 percent in 2003 compared to 7.4 percent in 2002.

FirstPoint
Contact

FirstPoint Contact’s sales in 2003 were
$112 million compared to $133 million in 2002. The
decrease was primarily due to lower customer capital spending
for telecommunications products. Segment operating earnings were
$1 million in 2003 compared to $4 million in 2002.
Included in 2003 results is a charge of $2 million related
to a workforce reduction. Included in 2002 results were charges
of $4 million related to severance and an asset impairment.

General
Corporate — Net

General corporate expenses were $67 million
in 2003 compared to $57 million in 2002. Expense in 2003
included a charge of $5 million due to higher estimated
future costs for environmental remediation near the
Russellville, Kentucky facility of the Company’s former
Measurement and Flow Control business. 2002 included
$9 million of income related to the settlement of
intellectual property matters. Excluding these amounts,
corporate expenses decreased in 2003 as a result of lower
corporate staff costs and an increase of approximately
$2 million in earnings from the Company’s investment
in RSC.

Loss
on Disposition of a Business

In the second quarter of 2003, the Company sold a
majority of its ownership interest in REJ resulting in a loss of
approximately $8 million ($3 million after tax, or
1 cent per diluted share). The after-tax loss on the sale
included a $2 million benefit resulting from the
Company’s ability to utilize capital loss carryforwards for
which a valuation allowance had been previously provided. The
cash proceeds from the transaction totaled approximately
$10 million.

Interest
Expense

Interest expense was $52 million in 2003
compared to $66 million in 2002. The decrease was the
result of the retirement at maturity of the $150 million
principal amount of 6.80% notes in April 2003, the benefit of an
interest rate swap (see Note 9 in the

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements

) and lower average
short-term borrowings.

2002 Compared
to 2001

Sales were $3,909 million in 2002 compared
to $4,285 million in 2001. Income from continuing
operations before accounting change in 2002 was
$226 million, or $1.20 per diluted share, compared to
$125 million, or 68 cents per diluted share, in 2001.
The 2002 results from continuing operations include a reduction
in the income tax provision of $48 million, or
26 cents per diluted share, from the favorable resolution
of certain tax matters. In 2001, income from continuing
operations before accounting change included amortization of
goodwill and certain other intangible assets of $56 million
($47 million after tax, or 25 cents per diluted
share), as well as special charges of $91 million
($60 million after tax, or 32 cents per


diluted share) for costs associated with
realignment actions and income of $18 million
($12 million after tax, or 6 cents per diluted share)
resulting from the favorable settlement of an intellectual
property matter and a reduction in the income tax provision of
$22 million, or 12 cents per diluted share, from the
favorable resolution of certain tax matters. Goodwill and
certain trademarks deemed to have an indefinite life are no
longer amortized under SFAS 142.

Control
Systems

Control Systems’ sales in 2002 were
$3,060 million compared to $3,327 million in 2001. The
decrease was primarily the result of continued depressed market
conditions for automation products. Sales in the U.S declined
9 percent in 2002, while sales outside of the U.S. declined
6 percent (4 percent excluding currency translation),
primarily as a result of a 7 percent decline in Europe
(9 percent excluding currency translation). Despite the
overall sales decline, sales of Logix integrated architecture
products increased 31 percent. Sales in the Global
Manufacturing Solutions business increased 6 percent over
2001 driven by increases in process and engineering solutions
sales and the acquisition of Propack.

Segment operating earnings were $324 million
in 2002 compared to $425 million in 2001. The decrease was
primarily due to lower volume, especially in higher margin CPAG
and ACIG products. In addition, Control Systems continued to
invest in the growth of its Global Manufacturing Solutions
business. Control Systems’ return on sales in 2002 was
10.6 percent compared to 12.8 percent in 2001.

Power
Systems

Power Systems’ sales in 2002 were
$716 million compared to $748 million in 2001. The
decline was the result of lower demand due to depressed market
conditions. Segment operating earnings increased to
$53 million in 2002 from $39 million in 2001. The
improvement was the result of cost savings from actions taken in
the fourth quarter of 2001 and ongoing initiatives to improve
productivity. Power Systems’ return on sales was
7.4 percent in 2002 compared to 5.2 percent in 2001.

FirstPoint
Contact

FirstPoint Contact’s sales in 2002 were
$133 million compared to $150 million in 2001. The
decline was primarily due to decreased customer capital spending
for telecommunications products. Segment operating earnings were
$4 million in 2002 compared to $7 million in 2001.
Included in the 2002 results are charges of $4 million
related to severance and an asset impairment.

General
Corporate — Net

General corporate expenses were $57 million
in 2002 compared to $53 million in 2001. General corporate
expenses included income from the settlement of intellectual
property matters of $9 million in 2002 and $18 million
in 2001 and a gain on the sale of real estate of $5 million
in 2001. Also in 2001, general corporate expenses included
$3 million of costs associated with the spinoff of Rockwell
Collins. Excluding these items, general corporate expenses
decreased from $73 million in 2001 to $66 million in
2002, primarily as a result of lower corporate spending.

Interest
Expense

Interest expense decreased to $66 million in
2002 from $83 million in 2001. The decrease was due to
lower weighted-average short-term borrowings and lower
commercial paper borrowing rates in 2002. The Company used
commercial paper in the second quarter of 2001 to fund an
acquisition by Rockwell Collins. In the third quarter of 2001,
the Company received a special payment of $300 million from
Rockwell Collins which was used to repay commercial paper
borrowings.


Special
Charges

In 2001, the Company recorded charges of
$91 million ($60 million after tax, or 32 cents
per diluted share) for costs associated with a realignment of
its operations to reduce costs in response to the continued
decline in demand in industrial markets. Total cash expenditures
related to the realignment actions will approximate
$50 million, of which substantially all had been spent as
of September 30, 2003. The special charges were related to
the business segments as follows: Control Systems,
$76 million; Power Systems, $5 million; and Corporate,
$10 million. See Note 14 in the

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements

in the Financial
Statements.

Discontinued
Operations

Discontinued operations in 2003 are a benefit of
$7 million ($4 million after tax, or 2 cents per
diluted share) from a favorable determination in a legal
proceeding related to the Company’s former operation of the
Rocky Flats facility of the Department of Energy.

Discontinued operations in 2002 related to a net
benefit of $3 million for the resolution of certain
obligations related to two discontinued businesses.

On June 29, 2001, the Company completed the
spinoff of its Rockwell Collins avionics and communications
business into an independent, separately traded, publicly held
company. In connection with the spinoff, all outstanding shares
of common stock of Rockwell Collins were distributed to Rockwell
Automation shareowners on the basis of one Rockwell Collins
share for each outstanding Rockwell Automation share. At the
time of the spinoff, Rockwell Collins made a special payment to
the Company of $300 million. The Company recorded a
decrease to shareowner’s equity for the net assets of
Rockwell Collins as of June 29, 2001 of approximately
$1.2 billion (including $300 million of debt incurred
to make the special payment to the Company). Included in 2001
income from discontinued operations was $21 million of
costs related to the spinoff.

Rockwell
Scientific Company LLC

Since June 29, 2001, the Company and
Rockwell Collins each have owned 50 percent of RSC. Results
of Rockwell Science Center are included in continuing operations
through the third quarter of 2001. Sales of Rockwell Science
Center for the first nine months of 2001 were $60 million.
Segment operating earnings were $3 million for the first
nine months of 2001. Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2001,
the Company’s 50 percent ownership interest in RSC is
accounted for using the equity method, and the Company’s
proportional share of RSC’s earnings or losses are included
in general corporate-net.

Acquisitions

See Note 2 in the

Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements

for information regarding acquisitions.

Income
Taxes

During 2003, the Company recognized in earnings a
net tax benefit of $69 million related to a
U.S. federal research and experimentation credit refund
claim and a tax benefit of approximately $2 million as a
result of the Company’s ability to utilize certain capital
loss carryforwards for which a valuation allowance had been
previously provided. The ability to utilize the capital loss
carryforwards was the result of the sale of a majority of the
Company’s ownership in REJ which took place in 2003. The
full year effective tax rate for 2003 was approximately
6 percent, including the effect of the research and
experimentation settlement (23 percent benefit) and the REJ
transaction (1 percent benefit). See Note 18 in the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

in the
Financial Statements. Management believes that the effective
income tax rate in 2004 will be approximately 30 percent,
excluding the income tax expense or benefit related to discrete
items, if any, that will be separately reported or reported net
of their related tax effects.

During 2002, the Company resolved certain tax
matters for the period of 1995-1999, resulting in a
$48 million reduction in its income tax provision.
Including the effect of this reduction, the effective income tax
rate for 2002 was 3 percent.


Outlook for

Customer demand has strengthened since early
September 2003 and management has begun to see a broad
improvement across the Company’s markets. Management is
confident that these early signs are indicative of an emerging
upward trend and is optimistic that this trend will be
sustainable. Until further evidence emerges, management is
planning for revenue growth in 2004 in the mid-single digits and
expects diluted earnings per share in 2004 in the range of $1.35
to $1.45.

Financial Condition

The Company’s cash flows from operating,
investing and financing activities, as reflected in the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, are summarized in the
following table (in millions):

The following table summarizes free cash flow (in
millions):

The Company’s definition of free cash flow
takes into consideration capital investment required to maintain
the operations of the Company and execute its strategy.
Management believes that free cash flow provides useful
information to investors regarding the Company’s ability to
generate cash from business operations that is available for
acquisitions and other investments, service of debt principal,
dividends and share repurchases. Management uses free cash flow
as one measure to monitor and evaluate the performance of the
Company. The Company’s definition of free cash flow may be
different from definitions used by other companies.

Free cash flow was $327 million for the year
ended September 30, 2003 compared to $372 million for
the year ended September 30, 2002. The decrease in free
cash flow was in part the result of a $50 million voluntary
contribution made to the Company’s primary U.S. qualified
pension plan trust in June 2003 compared to the $24 million
contribution made in 2002 related to the spinoff of Rockwell
Collins. Capital expenditures in 2003 were $109 million
compared to $104 million in 2002. Capital expenditures in
2004 are expected to be $125 million to $135 million,
but will depend ultimately on business conditions.

The Company acquired Weidmüller Holding
AG’s North American business and Interwave Technology, Inc.
during 2003 for approximately $26 million (see Note 2
in the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

for a
discussion of the businesses). During 2002, the Company acquired
four businesses for approximately $71 million.

The Company elects to utilize commercial paper as
its principal source of short-term financing. At
September 30, 2003 and 2002, the Company had no commercial
paper borrowings outstanding. During the year ended
September 30, 2003, the Company had weighted average
borrowings of $27 million under its commercial paper
program at interest rates ranging from 1.1 percent to
1.4 percent. During the year ended September 30, 2002,
the Company had weighted average borrowings of $68 million
under its commercial paper program at interest rates ranging
from 1.8 percent to 2.7 percent.


In April 2003, the Company’s
$150 million principal amount of 6.80% notes were retired
at maturity using a combination of cash on hand and commercial
paper borrowings.

The Company repurchased approximately
5.6 million shares of its common stock at a cost of
approximately $128 million in 2003, which included
repurchases of approximately 70,000 shares at a cost of
approximately $1.6 million under a voluntary program that
provided shareowners owning fewer than 100 shares of common
stock the opportunity to sell all of their shares of common
stock to the Company without paying a commission. At
September 30, 2003, the Company had approximately
$177 million remaining for stock repurchases under existing
board authorizations. The Company did not repurchase any shares
in 2002. The Company anticipates repurchasing stock in 2004, the
amount of which will depend ultimately on business conditions
and other cash requirements.

Future significant uses of cash are expected to
include capital expenditures, dividends to shareowners,
acquisitions, repurchases of common stock in connection with the
Company’s stock repurchase program and may include
contributions to the Company’s pension plans. Additional
information regarding pension contributions is contained in

MD&A

on page 15 hereof. It is expected that each
of these future uses of cash will be funded by cash generated by
operating activities and commercial paper borrowings, a new
issue of debt or issuance of other securities.

In addition to cash generated by operating
activities, the Company has access to existing financing
sources, including the public debt markets and unsecured credit
facilities with various banks. The Company’s
debt-to-total-capital ratio was 32.7 percent at
September 30, 2003 and 36.6 percent at
September 30, 2002.

As of September 30, 2003, the Company had
$675 million of unsecured committed credit facilities
available to support its commercial paper borrowings, with
$337.5 million expiring in October 2003 and
$337.5 million expiring in October 2005. During October
2003, the Company entered into a new $337.5 million credit
facility expiring in October 2004. Outstanding commercial paper
balances, if any, reduce the amount of available borrowings
under the unsecured committed credit facilities. The terms of
the credit facilities contain a covenant under which the Company
would be in default if the Company’s debt to capital ratio
were to exceed 60 percent. In addition to the
$675 million credit facilities, short-term unsecured credit
facilities available to foreign subsidiaries amounted to
$121 million at September 30, 2003.

The following is a summary of the Company’s
credit ratings as of September 30, 2003:

*

Standard & Poor’s changed its
    outlook to “Negative” in April 2003 due to its
    concerns about the Company’s exposure to unfunded
    postretirement benefit liabilities, including defined benefit
    pension and retiree medical liabilities.

Should the Company’s access to the
commercial paper market be adversely affected due to a change in
market conditions or otherwise, the Company would expect to rely
on a combination of available cash and the unsecured committed
credit facilities to provide short-term funding. In such event,
the cost of borrowings under the unsecured committed credit
facilities could be higher than the cost of commercial paper
borrowings.

Cash dividends to shareowners were
$122 million, or $0.66 per share, in 2003 and 2002. Prior
to the spinoff of Rockwell Collins, the Company paid quarterly
cash dividends, which, on an annual basis, equaled $1.02 per
share. Since the spinoff of Rockwell Collins, the Company has
paid quarterly cash dividends which, on an annual basis, equal
$0.66 per share. Although declaration and payment of dividends
by the Company are at the sole discretion of the Company’s
board of directors, the Company expects to pay quarterly
dividends in 2004 which, on an annual basis, are expected to
equal $0.66 per share.


Certain of the Company’s contractual cash
obligations at September 30, 2003 are summarized as follows:

At September 30, 2003, the Company
guaranteed the performance of Conexant related to a
$60 million lease obligation. The lease obligation is
secured by the real property subject to the lease and is within
a range of estimated fair values of the real property. In
consideration for this guarantee, the Company receives $250,000
per quarter from Conexant through December 31, 2003. The
guarantee expires in 2005.

At September 30, 2003, the Company and
Rockwell Collins each guarantee one-half of a lease agreement
for one of RSC’s facilities. The total future minimum
payments under the lease are approximately $6 million. The
lease agreement has a term which ends in December 2011. In
addition, the Company shares equally with Rockwell Collins in
providing a $4 million line of credit to RSC, which bears
interest at the greater of the Company’s or Rockwell
Collins’ commercial paper borrowing rate. At
September 30, 2003 and 2002, there were no outstanding
borrowings under this line of credit.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about
Market Risk

The Company is exposed to market risk during the
normal course of business from changes in interest rates and
foreign currency exchange rates. The exposure to these risks is
managed through a combination of normal operating and financing
activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of
interest rate swap contracts and foreign currency forward
exchange contracts.

Interest Rate Risk

In addition to cash provided by normal operating
activities, the Company utilizes a combination of short-term and
long-term debt to finance operations. The Company is exposed to
interest rate risk on certain of these debt obligations.

The Company’s short-term debt obligations
relate to commercial paper borrowings and bank borrowings. At
September 30, 2003 and 2002, the Company had no commercial
paper borrowings outstanding. During 2003, the weighted average
commercial paper borrowings were $27 million compared to
$68 million in 2002. There were no bank borrowings
outstanding at September 30, 2003. At September 30,
2002, the carrying value of bank borrowings was
$10 million. The Company’s results of operations are
affected by changes in market


interest rates on commercial paper borrowings. If
market interest rates would have averaged 10 percent higher
than actual levels in either 2003 or 2002, the effect on the
Company’s results of operations would not have been
material. The fair values of these obligations approximated
their carrying values at September 30, 2002, and would not
have been materially affected by changes in market interest
rates.

The Company had outstanding fixed rate long-term
debt obligations with carrying values of $773 million at
September 30, 2003 and $919 million at
September 30, 2002. The fair value of this debt was
$844 million at September 30, 2003 and
$976 million at September 30, 2002. The potential loss
in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a
hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates
would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. The
Company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding
fixed-rate instruments other than $8 million of industrial
development revenue bonds which the Company expects to repay in
January 2004 (prior to maturity) and, therefore, fluctuations in
market interest rates would not have an effect on the
Company’s results of operations or shareowners’ equity.

In September 2002, the Company entered into an
interest rate swap contract which effectively converted its
$350 million aggregate principal amount of 6.15% notes,
payable in 2008, to floating rate debt based on six-month LIBOR.
The floating rate was 3.52 percent at September 30,
2003. A hypothetical 10 percent change in market interest
rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the
swap or the Company’s results of operations.

Foreign Currency Risk

The Company is exposed to foreign currency risks
that arise from normal business operations. These risks include
the translation of local currency balances of foreign
subsidiaries, intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and
transactions denominated in foreign currencies. The
Company’s objective is to minimize its exposure to these
risks through a combination of normal operating activities and
the utilization of foreign currency forward exchange contracts
to manage its exposure on transactions denominated in currencies
other than the applicable functional currency. In addition, the
Company enters into contracts to hedge certain forecasted
intercompany transactions. Contracts are executed with
creditworthy banks and are denominated in currencies of major
industrial countries. It is the policy of the Company not to
enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative
purposes. The Company does not hedge its exposure to the
translation of reported results of foreign subsidiaries from
local currency to United States dollars. A 10 percent
adverse change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates
would not be significant to the Company’s financial
condition or results of operations.

The Company records all derivatives on the
balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose or intent
for holding them. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges
for accounting purposes are adjusted to fair value through
earnings. For derivatives that are hedges, depending on the
nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by
changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or
firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other
comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in
earnings. The ineffective portion of a derivative’s change
in fair value is immediately recognized in earnings.

At September 30, 2003 and 2002, the Company
had outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts
primarily consisting of contracts to exchange the euro, pound
sterling, Canadian dollar and Swiss franc. The use of these
contracts allows the Company to manage transactional exposure to
exchange rate fluctuations as the gains or losses incurred on
the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will offset, in
whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign
currency exposure. A hypothetical 10 percent adverse change
in underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with
these contracts would not be material to the financial
condition, results of operations or shareowners’ equity of
the Company.

Recently Adopted Accounting
Standards

See Note 1 in the

Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements

regarding recently adopted accounting
standards.


Supplemental Sales Information

The following is a reconciliation for the Control
Systems segment of reported sales to sales excluding currency
translation (which is a non-GAAP measure):

The following is a reconciliation for the Company
of reported sales to sales excluding currency translation (which
is a non-GAAP measure):

The effect of currency translation is determined
by translating the respective period sales data using the same
exchange rates as the preceding year. Management believes sales
excluding currency translation provides useful information to
investors since it reflects regional performance from the
Company’s activities without the effect of changes in
currency rates, which is outside the control of management.
Management uses sales excluding currency translation to monitor
and evaluate the Company’s regional performance.

Cautionary Statement

This Annual Report contains statements (including
certain projections and business trends) accompanied by such
phrases as “believes”, “estimates”,
“expect(s)”, “anticipates”,
“will”, “intends” and other similar
expressions, that are “forward-looking statements” as
defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a
result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not
limited to economic and political changes in international
markets where the Company competes, such as currency exchange
rates, inflation rates, recession, foreign ownership
restrictions and other external factors over which the Company
has no control; demand for and market acceptance of new and
existing products, including levels of capital spending in
industrial markets; successful development of advanced
technologies; competitive product and pricing pressures; future
terrorist attacks; epidemics; and the uncertainties of
litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties, including
but not limited to those detailed from time to time in the
Company’s Securities and Exchange Commission filings. These
forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof,
and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise the
forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.


Item 7a.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk.

The information with respect to the
Company’s market risk is contained under the caption

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

in

MD&A

on page 25 hereof.


Item 8.

Consolidated
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

(in millions)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS

(in millions, except per share
amounts)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

(in millions)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREOWNERS’
EQUITY

(in millions, except per share
amounts)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME

(in millions)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

1.     Basis of
Presentation and Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation

Except as indicated, amounts reflected in the
consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto relate to
the continuing operations of Rockwell Automation, Inc. (the
Company or Rockwell Automation). Certain prior year amounts have
been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

On June 29, 2001, the Company completed the
spinoff of its Rockwell Collins avionics and communications
business and certain other assets and liabilities into an
independent, separately traded, publicly held company (the
Spinoff). In connection with the Spinoff, all outstanding shares
of common stock of Rockwell Collins, Inc. (Rockwell Collins)
were distributed to Rockwell Automation shareowners on the basis
of one Rockwell Collins share for each outstanding Rockwell
Automation share. At the time of the Spinoff, Rockwell Collins
made a special payment to the Company of $300 million. The
net assets of Rockwell Collins as of June 29, 2001 of
approximately $1.2 billion (including $300 million of
debt incurred to make the special payment to the Company) were
recorded as a decrease to shareowners’ equity.

Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements of the
Company include the accounts of the Company and all subsidiaries
over which the Company has a controlling financial interest. All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions are
eliminated in consolidation.

Use of Estimates

The consolidated financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States which require management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial
statements and revenues and expenses during the periods
reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Estimates are used in accounting for, among other items,
customer returns, rebates and incentives; allowance for doubtful
accounts; excess and obsolete inventory; impairment of
long-lived assets; product warranty obligations; retirement
benefits; self-insurance liabilities; litigation, claims and
contingencies, including environmental matters; and income taxes.

Revenue Recognition

Sales are generally recorded when all of the
following have occurred: an agreement of sale exists, product
delivery and acceptance has occurred or services have been
rendered, pricing is fixed or determinable, and collection is
reasonably assured.

Contracts and customer purchase orders are
generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement.
Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are
used to verify delivery. The Company assesses whether the fee is
fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with
the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund
or adjustment. The Company assesses collectibility based
primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined
by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customer’s
payment history.

The Company records accruals for customer
returns, rebates and incentives at the time of shipment based
upon historical experience. Changes in such accruals may be
required if future returns, rebates and incentives differ from
historical experience. Rebates and incentives are recognized as
a reduction of sales if distributed in cash or customer account
credits. Rebates and incentives are recognized as cost of sales
for products or services to be provided.

Shipping and handling costs billed to customers
are included in sales and the related costs are included in cost
of sales in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

1.

Basis of Presentation and Accounting
    Policies — (Continued)

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents includes time deposits
and certificates of deposit with original maturities of three
months or less.

Receivables

Receivables are stated net of allowances for
doubtful accounts of $28 million at September 30, 2003
and $45 million at September 30, 2002. The decrease in
the allowance balance primarily relates to the writeoff of a
$9 million distributor receivable and $3 million of
account collections for which an allowance had previously been
provided. The remainder of the decrease resulted from the
Company’s regular review of the allowance, considering such
factors as historical experience, credit quality, and age of the
accounts receivable balances. In addition, receivables are
stated net of an allowance for certain customer rebates and
incentives of $5 million at September 30, 2003 and
$6 million at September 30, 2002.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or
market using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or average methods.
Market is determined on the basis of estimated realizable values.

Property

Property is stated at cost. Depreciation of
property is provided generally using straight-line and
accelerated methods over 15 to 40 years for buildings and
improvements and 3 to 14 years for machinery and equipment.
Significant renewals and enhancements are capitalized and
replaced units are written off. Maintenance and repairs, as well
as renewals of minor amounts, are charged to expense.

Intangible Assets

Goodwill and other intangible assets generally
result from business acquisitions. The Company accounts for
business acquisitions by assigning the purchase price to
tangible and intangible assets and liabilities. Assets acquired
and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair values, and
the excess of the purchase price over the amounts assigned is
recorded as goodwill.

Since October 1, 2001 upon adoption of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

(SFAS 142),
goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful
lives are no longer systematically amortized but instead are
reviewed for impairment and any excess in carrying value over
the estimated fair value is charged to results of operations.
Distributor networks, computer software products, patents, and
other intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized
on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives,
generally ranging from 3 to 40 years.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

The Company evaluates the recoverability of the
carrying amount of long-lived assets whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
may not be fully recoverable. The Company evaluates the
recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives annually or more frequently if events or
circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. If an
asset is considered to be impaired, the impairment to be
recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying
amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. Assets to be
disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or
fair value less cost to sell. Management determines fair value
using discounted future cash flow analysis or other accepted
valuation techniques.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

1.

Basis of Presentation and Accounting
    Policies — (Continued)

The Company performed its annual evaluation of
goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for impairment
during the second quarter of 2003 and concluded that no
impairments existed other than as a result of the sale of a
majority of the Company’s ownership interest in Reliance
Electric Limited Japan (REJ) (see Note 17).

Investments

Investments in affiliates over which the Company
has the ability to exert significant influence but does not
control, including Rockwell Scientific Company LLC (RSC), are
accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Accordingly, the Company’s proportional share of the
respective affiliate’s earnings or losses are included in
other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations. Investments in affiliates over which the Company
does not have the ability to exert significant influence are
accounted for using the cost method of accounting. These
affiliated companies are not material individually or in the
aggregate to Rockwell Automation’s financial position,
results of operations or cash flows.

Derivative Financial Instruments

The Company uses derivative financial instruments
in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts and
interest rate swap contracts to manage foreign currency and
interest rate risks. Foreign currency forward exchange contracts
are used to offset changes in the amount of future cash flows
associated with intercompany transactions generally forecasted
to occur within one year (cash flow hedges) and changes in the
fair value of certain assets and liabilities resulting from
intercompany loans and other transactions with third parties
denominated in foreign currencies. Interest rate swap contracts
are periodically used to manage the balance of fixed and
floating rate debt. The Company’s accounting method for
derivative financial instruments is based upon the designation
of such instruments as hedges under accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. It is the policy of the
Company to execute such instruments with creditworthy banks and
not to enter into derivative financial instruments for
speculative purposes. All foreign currency forward exchange
contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial
countries.

Foreign Currency Translation

Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries operating
outside of the United States with a functional currency other
than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars
using exchange rates at the end of the respective period. Sales,
costs and expenses are translated at average exchange rates
effective during the respective period. Foreign currency
translation adjustments are included as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive loss. Currency transaction gains
and losses are included in the results of operations in the
period incurred.

Research and Development Expenses

Research and development (R&D) costs are
expensed as incurred and were $130 million in 2003,
$131 million in 2002 and $158 million in 2001. R&D
expenses are included in cost of sales in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations.

Customer-funded R&D was $61 million in
2001 and related primarily to the Company’s formerly
wholly-owned (now 50 percent owned) subsidiary, Rockwell
Science Center. Customer-funded R&D was not material in 2003
and 2002.

Earnings Per Share

The Company presents two earnings per share
(EPS) amounts, basic and diluted. Basic EPS is calculated
by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS amounts are
based upon the weighted average number of common and common
equivalent


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

1.

Basis of Presentation and Accounting
    Policies — (Continued)

shares outstanding during the year. The
difference between basic and diluted EPS is solely attributable
to stock options. The Company uses the treasury stock method to
calculate the effect of outstanding stock options. Stock options
for which the exercise price exceeds the average market price
over the period have an antidilutive effect on EPS, and
accordingly, are excluded from the calculation. There were no
shares excluded from the diluted EPS calculation for the year
ended September 30, 2003. For the years ended
September 30, 2002 and 2001, options for 4.0 million
and 5.9 million shares, respectively, were excluded from
the diluted EPS calculation because they were antidilutive.

Stock-Based Compensation

The Company accounts for stock-based compensation
in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.

Stock options are granted at prices equal to the fair market
value of the Company’s common stock on the grant dates;
therefore no compensation expense is recognized in connection
with stock options granted to employees. Compensation expense
resulting from grants of restricted stock is recognized during
the period in which the service is performed. The following
table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per
share as if the fair value-based method provided by
SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,

had been applied for all outstanding and
unvested awards in each year:

The 2001 pro forma net income includes
$6 million ($4 million after tax, or 2 cents per
diluted share) of pro forma compensation expense related to the
spinoff of Rockwell Collins. The pro forma effect of stock
options on net income for 2003 may not be indicative of the pro
forma effect on net income in future years.

The per share weighted average fair value of
options granted was $2.98 in 2003, $2.99 in 2002 and $8.79 in
2001. The per share weighted average fair value of options
granted in 2001 has not been restated to reflect the Spinoff.

The fair value of each option was estimated on
the date of grant or subsequent date of option adjustment using
the Black-Scholes pricing model and the following assumptions:


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

1.

Basis of Presentation and Accounting
    Policies — (Continued)

Environmental Matters

The Company records accruals for environmental
matters in the period in which its responsibility is probable
and the cost can be reasonably estimated. Revisions to the
accruals are made in the periods in which the estimated costs of
remediation change. At environmental sites in which more than
one potentially responsible party has been identified, the
Company records a liability for its estimated allocable share of
costs related to its involvement with the site as well as an
estimated allocable share of costs related to the involvement of
insolvent or unidentified parties. At environmental sites in
which the Company is the only responsible party, the Company
records a liability for the total estimated costs of
remediation. Future expenditures for environmental remediation
obligations are not discounted to their present value. If
recovery from insurers or other third parties is determined to
be probable, the Company records a receivable for the estimated
recovery.

Recently Adopted Accounting
    Standards

In July 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 146,

Accounting
for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities

(SFAS 146), which addresses financial accounting and
reporting associated with exit or disposal activities. Under
SFAS 146, the Company will measure costs associated with an
exit or disposal activity at fair value and recognize the costs
in the period in which the liability is incurred rather than at
the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. The
Company adopted SFAS 146 on January 1, 2003.

In November 2002, the FASB issued
FASB Interpretation No. 45,

Guarantor’s
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others

(FIN 45).
FIN 45 provides guidance on the disclosures to be made by a
guarantor in its interim and annual financial statements about
its obligations under certain guarantees that it has issued and
also clarifies that a guarantor is required to recognize, at the
inception of certain guarantees, a liability for the fair value
of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. The
Company adopted FIN 45 in 2003.

In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on
Issue No. 00-21,

Accounting for Revenue Arrangements
with Multiple Deliverables

(EITF 00-21).
EITF 00-21 establishes criteria to determine whether an
arrangement that contains multiple deliverables should be
divided into separate units of accounting and how the
arrangement consideration should be allocated among the separate
units. EITF 00-21 was effective for arrangements entered
into after June 30, 2003.

In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB
Interpretation No. 46,

Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities

(FIN 46). FIN 46 requires a
company to consolidate any variable interest entities for which
the company has a controlling financial interest. FIN 46
also requires disclosures about the variable interest entities
that the Company is not required to consolidate, but in which it
has a significant variable interest. The Company adopted the
consolidation requirements of FIN 46 on February 1,
2003.

The adoption of SFAS 146, FIN 45,
EITF 00-21 and FIN 46 had no effect on the
Company’s financial position, results of operations or
shareowners’ equity.

2.

Acquisitions of Businesses

In March 2003, the Company’s Control Systems
segment acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities
of Weidmüller Holding AG’s (Weidmüller) North
American business. In addition, the Company entered into a
master brand label agreement, a technology/design exchange and
joint product development efforts with Weidmüller. The
acquisition enhances the Company’s position in providing
IEC (an international standard for electrical technologies)
connection products which are used to connect factory automation
systems to basic electrical switches.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

2.

Acquisitions of
    Businesses — (Continued)

In February 2003, the Company’s Control
Systems segment acquired substantially all of the assets and
assumed certain liabilities of Interwave Technology, Inc., a
consulting integrator focusing on manufacturing solutions. The
acquisition expands the Company’s Manufacturing Information
Solutions capability and accelerates its ability to integrate
real-time information between customers’ manufacturing
plant floors and business systems.

The aggregate cash purchase price of the
businesses acquired in 2003 was approximately $26 million.
The Company would be required to make additional cash payments
if certain future operating performance criteria are met by the
acquired businesses. Management believes that these additional
cash payments, if any, would be recorded as goodwill and would
not have a material effect on the Company’s financial
position, results of operations or shareowners’ equity.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been recorded at
estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the
estimated fair value of the acquired tangible and intangible
assets was recorded as goodwill. See Note 3 for goodwill
and intangible assets acquired in connection with these
acquisitions.

In September 2002, the Company’s Control
Systems segment acquired the engineering services and system
integration assets of SPEL, spol. s.r.o. The acquisition
accelerated the establishment of the Company as a complete
solution provider in Central Europe and it also strategically
located the Company in a region with future growth opportunities.

In May 2002, the Company’s Control Systems
segment acquired the assets and assumed certain liabilities of
the controller division of Samsung Electronics Company
Limited’s Mechatronics business (the Controller Division).
The Company combined its existing Korean business with the
Controller Division to form a new business that operates under
the name Rockwell Samsung Automation and creates technologies
for the design and development of automation products. The
acquisition expanded the Company’s existing operations in
Korea, furthered the Company’s design and product
development capabilities and supported future commercial and
operational expansion in the Asia Pacific region.

In March 2002, the Company’s Control Systems
segment acquired all of the stock of Propack Data GmbH
(Propack), a provider of manufacturing information systems for
the pharmaceutical and other regulated industries. The
acquisition broadened the Company’s position in the
pharmaceuticals market, enhanced the Company’s Process
Solutions business and enabled the Company to expand its reach
into the manufacturing information markets.

In January 2002, the Company’s Control
Systems segment acquired all of the stock of Tesch GmbH, an
electronic products and safety relay manufacturer, expanding the
Company’s machine safety product and research and
development capabilities.

The aggregate cash purchase price of the
businesses acquired in 2002, of which the majority related to
the acquisition of Propack, was approximately $71 million.
In connection with the Controller Division transaction, the
Company would be required to make additional cash payments if
certain future operating performance criteria are met by the
acquired business. Management believes that these additional
cash payments, if any, would be recorded as goodwill and would
not have a material effect on the Company’s financial
position, results of operations or shareowners’ equity.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been recorded at
fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated
fair value of the acquired tangible and intangible assets was
recorded as goodwill. See Note 3 for goodwill and
intangible assets acquired in connection with these acquisitions.

Amounts recorded for liabilities assumed in
connection with these acquisitions were $1 million in 2003
and $6 million in 2002.

These acquisitions were accounted for as
purchases and, accordingly, the results of operations of these
businesses have been included in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations since their respective dates of


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

2.

Acquisitions of
    Businesses — (Continued)

acquisition. Pro forma financial information and
allocation of the purchase price is not presented as the
combined effect of these acquisitions was not material to the
Company’s results of operations or financial position.

3.     Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets

In connection with the adoption of SFAS 142
in 2002, management determined that the Company’s
Allen-Bradley, Reliance and Dodge trademarks have indefinite
useful lives. Accordingly, management performed a transitional
intangible asset impairment test which resulted in an impairment
charge of $56 million ($35 million after tax, or
19 cents per diluted share) related to the Reliance
trademark used primarily by Power Systems. The impairment charge
represents the excess of the carrying amount of the trademark
over its estimated fair value as determined by management, with
the assistance of independent valuation experts, utilizing the
relief from royalty valuation method. This method estimates the
benefit to the Company resulting from owning rather than
licensing the trademark.

Also in connection with the adoption of
SFAS 142, the Company completed a transitional goodwill
impairment test during 2002. As a result, an impairment charge
of $73 million (before and after tax, or 39 cents per
diluted share) was recorded related to goodwill at a Power
Systems reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit was
estimated using a combination of valuation techniques, including
the present value of expected future cash flows and historical
valuations of comparable businesses.

The previous method for determining impairment
prescribed by SFAS No. 121,

Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Long-Lived Assets to be
Disposed of,

utilized an undiscounted cash flow approach for
the initial impairment assessment, while SFAS 142 utilizes
a fair value approach. The trademark impairment charge and the
goodwill impairment charge discussed above are the result of the
change in the accounting method for determining the impairment
of goodwill and certain intangible assets. These charges have
been recorded as the cumulative effect of accounting change in
the amount of $129 million ($108 million after tax, or
58 cents per diluted share) as of October 1, 2001 in
the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Operations.

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill
for the years ended September 30, 2002 and 2003 are as
follows (in millions):

Other includes adjustments to goodwill for the
resolution of tax matters relating to tax returns filed by
Reliance Electric Company (Reliance) prior to its acquisition by
Rockwell Automation in 1995.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

3.

Goodwill and Other Intangible
    Assets — (Continued)

The results for periods prior to adoption of
SFAS 142 have not been restated. The following table
reconciles the reported income from continuing operations before
accounting change, net income and earnings per share to that
which would have resulted for the year ended September 30,
2001 if SFAS 142 had been adopted effective October 1,
2000 (in millions, except per share amounts):


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

3.

Goodwill and Other Intangible
    Assets — (Continued)

Other intangible assets at September 30,
2003 and September 30, 2002 consisted of the following (in
millions):

Computer software products amortization expense
was approximately $17 million in 2003, approximately
$14 million in 2002 and approximately $11 million in 2001.

Unamortized intangible assets consist of
trademarks which have been determined to have an indefinite
life. The change in the carrying amount of unamortized
intangible assets for the year ended September 30, 2003
relates to an impairment resulting from the sale of a majority
of the Company’s ownership interest in REJ (see
Note 17).

Estimated amortization expense is
$26 million in 2004, $22 million in 2005,
$19 million in 2006, $19 million in 2007 and
$18 million in 2008.

In connection with the acquisitions in 2003 (see
Note 2), the Company acquired $4 million of intangible
assets, of which $3 million was assigned to distributor
networks. The weighted-average amortization period for the
intangible assets acquired in 2003 is approximately 5 years.

In connection with the acquisitions in 2002 (see
Note 2), the Company acquired $12 million of
intangible assets, of which $9 million was assigned to
computer software products. The weighted-average amortization
period for the intangible assets acquired in 2002 is
approximately 5 years and the amortization period for
computer software products acquired in 2002 is 6 years.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

4.

Inventories

Inventories are summarized as follows (in
millions):

Inventories are reported net of the allowance for
excess and obsolete inventory of $56 million at
September 30, 2003 and $53 million at
September 30, 2002.

5.

Property

Property is summarized as follows (in millions):

6.

Short-Term Debt

Short-term debt consists of the following (in
millions):

Included in the current portion of long-term debt
at September 30, 2003 was $8 million of industrial
development revenue bonds which the Company expects to repay in
January 2004 (prior to maturity). Included in the current
portion of long-term debt at September 30, 2002 was
$150 million principal amount of 6.80% notes which were
retired at maturity in April 2003. The weighted average interest
rate on short-term bank borrowings was 2.8 percent at
September 30, 2002.

At September 30, 2003, the Company had
$675 million of unsecured committed credit facilities
available to support its commercial paper borrowings, with
$337.5 million expiring in October 2003 and
$337.5 million expiring in October 2005. During October
2003, the Company entered into a new $337.5 million credit
facility expiring in October 2004. Outstanding commercial paper
balances, if any, reduce the amount of available borrowings
under the unsecured committed credit facilities. The terms of
the credit facilities contain a covenant under which the Company
would be in default if the Company’s debt to capital ratio
were to exceed 60 percent. In addition to the
$675 million credit facilities, short-term unsecured credit
facilities available to foreign subsidiaries amounted to
$121 million at September 30, 2003. There were no
significant commitment fees or compensating balance requirements
under any of the Company’s credit facilities.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

7.

Other Current Liabilities

Other current liabilities are summarized as
follows (in millions):

8.

Product Warranty Obligations

The Company records a liability for product
warranty obligations at the time of sale to a customer based
upon historical warranty experience. The term of the warranty is
generally twelve months. The Company also records a liability
for specific warranty matters when they become known and are
reasonably estimable. The Company’s product warranty
obligations are included in other current liabilities in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Changes in the product warranty obligations are
as follows (in millions):

9.

Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following (in
millions):


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

9.

Long-Term Debt —
    (Continued)

In September 2002, the Company entered into an
interest rate swap contract (the Swap) which effectively
converted its $350 million aggregate principal amount of
6.15% notes, payable in 2008, to floating rate debt based on
six-month LIBOR. The floating rate was 3.52 percent at
September 30, 2003 and 4.21 percent at
September 30, 2002. The fair value of the Swap, based upon
quoted market prices for contracts with similar maturities, was
approximately $10 million at September 30, 2003 and
$6 million at September 30, 2002. As permitted by SFAS
No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities

(SFAS 133) as amended, the Company has
designated the Swap as a fair value hedge. Accordingly, the fair
value of the Swap was recorded in other assets on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet and the carrying value of the
underlying debt was increased to $360 million at
September 30, 2003 and $356 million at
September 30, 2002 in accordance with SFAS 133.

Interest payments were $55 million during
2003, $63 million during 2002 and $79 million during
2001. Interest payments related to discontinued operations for
2001 were not significant.

10.

Financial Instruments

The Company’s financial instruments include
short- and long-term debt, foreign currency forward exchange
contracts and an interest rate swap. It is the policy of the
Company not to enter into derivative financial instruments for
speculative purposes. The fair value of short-term debt
approximates the carrying value due to its short-term nature.
The carrying value of long-term debt was $773 million at
September 30, 2003 and $919 million at
September 30, 2002. The fair value of long-term debt, based
upon quoted market prices for the same or similar issues, was
$844 million at September 30, 2003 and
$976 million at September 30, 2002.

Foreign currency forward exchange contracts
provide for the purchase or sale of foreign currencies at
specified future dates at specified exchange rates. At
September 30, 2003 and 2002, the Company had outstanding
foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily consisting
of contracts for the euro, pound sterling, Canadian dollar and
Swiss franc. The net carrying value of foreign currency forward
exchange contracts of $42 million at September 30,
2003 and $15 million at September 30, 2002 represented
the approximate fair value based upon quoted market prices for
contracts with similar maturities. The foreign currency forward
exchange contracts are recorded in other current assets in the
amounts of $5 million as of September 30, 2003 and
$6 million as of September 30, 2002 and other current
liabilities in the amounts of $47 million as of
September 30, 2003 and $21 million as of
September 30, 2002. The Company does not anticipate any
material adverse effect on its results of operations or
financial position relating to these foreign currency forward
exchange contracts. The Company has designated certain foreign
currency forward exchange contracts related to forecasted
intercompany transactions as cash flow hedges. The amount
recognized in earnings as a result of the ineffectiveness of
cash flow hedges was not material.

11.

Shareowners’ Equity

Common
Stock

At September 30, 2003, the authorized stock
of the Company consisted of one billion shares of common stock,
par value $1 per share, and 25 million shares of
preferred stock, without par value. At September 30, 2003,
22.3 million shares of common stock were reserved for
various incentive plans.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

11.     Shareowners’
Equity — (Continued)

Changes in outstanding common shares are
summarized as follows (in millions):

Preferred
Share Purchase Rights

Each outstanding share of common stock provides
the holder with one Preferred Share Purchase Right (Right). The
Rights will become exercisable only if a person or group,
without the approval of the board of directors, acquires, or
offers to acquire, 20% or more of the common stock, although the
board of directors is authorized to reduce the 20% threshold for
triggering the Rights to not less than 10%. Upon exercise, each
Right entitles the holder to 1/100th of a share of Series A
Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Company (Junior
Preferred Stock) at a price of $250, subject to adjustment.

Upon an acquisition of the Company, each Right
(other than Rights held by the acquirer) will generally be
exercisable for $500 worth of either common stock of the Company
or common stock of the acquirer for $250. In certain
circumstances, each Right may be exchanged by the Company for
one share of common stock or 1/100th of a share of Junior
Preferred Stock. The Rights will expire on December 6,
2006, unless earlier exchanged or redeemed at $0.01 per Right.

Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Loss

Accumulated other comprehensive loss consisted of
the following (in millions):

In 2003, the Company adjusted its currency
translation and deferred income taxes by approximately
$25 million resulting from a decision made by the Company
to permanently reinvest the earnings of certain of its foreign
subsidiaries.

Unrealized losses on cash flow hedges of
$24 million ($15 million after tax) were reclassified
into earnings in 2003 and offset gains on the hedged items.
Unrealized gains on cash flow hedges of $7 million
($4 million after tax) in 2002 and $22 million
($15 million after tax) in 2001 were reclassified into
earnings and offset losses on the hedged items. Approximately
$28 million ($18 million after tax) of the net
unrealized losses on cash flow hedges as of September 30,
2003 will be reclassified into earnings during 2004. Management
expects that these unrealized losses will be offset when the
hedged items are recognized in earnings.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

12.

Stock Options

Options to purchase common stock of the Company
have been granted under various incentive plans and by board
action to directors, officers and other key employees at prices
equal to the fair market value of the stock on the dates the
options were granted. The plans provide that the option price
for certain options granted under the plans may be paid in cash,
shares of common stock or a combination thereof.

Under the 2000 Long-Term Incentives Plan, the
Company may grant up to 16 million shares of Company common
stock as non-qualified options, incentive stock options, stock
appreciation rights and restricted stock. Shares available for
future grant or payment under various incentive plans were
approximately 5.4 million at September 30, 2003. None
of the employee incentive plans presently permits options to be
granted after November 30, 2009. Stock options generally
expire ten years from the date they are granted and vest over
three years (time-vesting options) with the exception of
performance-vesting options. Performance-vesting options expire
ten years from the date they are granted and vest at the earlier
of (a) the date the market price of the Company’s
common stock reaches a specified level for a pre-determined
period of time or certain other financial performance criteria
are met or (b) a period of six or seven years from the date
they are granted.

Information relative to stock options is as
follows (shares in thousands):

Approximately 1 million performance-vesting
options were not exercisable at September 30, 2003.

In connection with the Spinoff, the number and
exercise prices of certain options were adjusted in order to
preserve the intrinsic value of the options that were
outstanding immediately before and after the Spinoff. For
certain other options, option holders received a combination of
Rockwell Automation and Rockwell Collins options with
adjustments made to the number and exercise prices of those
options to preserve the intrinsic value of the Rockwell
Automation and Rockwell Collins options that were outstanding
immediately before and after the Spinoff. Outstanding Rockwell
Automation options held by Rockwell Collins employees generally
were converted into Rockwell Collins options. Grants for 2001
have not been restated to reflect adjustments made in connection
with the Spinoff.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

12.     Stock
Options — (Continued)

The following table summarizes information about
stock options outstanding at September 30, 2003 (shares in
thousands; remaining life in years):

The closing price of the Company’s common
stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Transactions
reporting system on September 30, 2003 was $26.25.

13.

Retirement Benefits

The Company sponsors pension and other
postretirement benefit plans for its employees. The pension
plans cover most of the Company’s employees and provide for
monthly pension payments to eligible employees upon retirement.
Pension benefits for salaried employees generally are based on
years of credited service and average earnings. Pension benefits
for hourly employees are primarily based on specified benefit
amounts and years of service. The Company’s policy with
respect to funding its pension obligation is to fund the minimum
amount required by applicable laws and governmental regulations.
The Company may, at its discretion, fund amounts in excess of
the minimum amount required by laws and regulations. Other
postretirement benefits are primarily in the form of retirement
medical plans and cover most of the Company’s United States
employees and provide for the payment of certain medical costs
of eligible employees and dependents upon retirement.

In connection with the Spinoff, Rockwell Collins
assumed the former Rockwell International Corporation domestic
qualified pension plan (Rockwell Retirement Plan). Pension plan
obligations attributable to all of Rockwell Automation’s
domestic active employees and former employees of the Control
Systems, Power Systems and FirstPoint Contact businesses were
retained by Rockwell Automation and a proportionate share of
pension plan assets were transferred from the former Rockwell
International Corporation domestic qualified plan (Rockwell
Retirement Plan) to a new pension plan established by Rockwell
Automation. The Company also retained liabilities for other
postretirement benefits for active and former employees. The
tables below reflect the continuing Rockwell Automation plans.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

13.     Retirement
Benefits — (Continued)

The components of net periodic benefit cost are
as follows (in millions):

The Company recognized special termination
benefit charges of $3 million in 2001.

Benefit obligation, plan assets, funded status,
and net liability information is summarized as follows (in
millions):


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

13.     Retirement
Benefits — (Continued)

During 2003, the Company recorded an increase to
its minimum pension liability of $280 million resulting
primarily from unfavorable actual returns on plan assets
relative to the expected return on plan assets and a decline in
the discount rates used to calculate benefit obligations. After
recognition of a deferred tax asset of $108 million, the
net reduction to shareowners equity resulting from this
adjustment was $170 million.

In June 2003, the Company made a $50 million
voluntary contribution to the Company’s primary U.S.
qualified pension plan trust compared to a 2002 contribution of
$24 million which was related to the spinoff of Rockwell
Collins.

The Company uses an actuarial measurement date of
June 30 to measure its benefit obligations for pension and
other postretirement benefits.

Net Periodic Benefit Cost
    Assumptions

Significant assumptions used in determining net
periodic benefit cost for the fiscal years ended
September 30, 2003, 2002 and 2001 are as follows:

Net Benefit Obligation Assumptions

Significant assumptions used in determining the
benefit obligations as of September 30 are summarized as
follows (in weighted averages):

(1)

As a result of the plan amendment adopted
    effective October 1, 2002, as more fully described below,
    and in accordance with SFAS No. 106,

Employers’
    Accounting for Postretirement Benefit Other Than Pensions

,
    the Company’s postretirement healthcare liabilities were
    recalculated as of the date of the amendment using a
    6.5 percent discount rate, the discount rate applicable at
    the date of the plan amendment. The Company’s related net
    periodic benefit cost in 2003 of $29 million consists of
    expense at a 7 percent discount


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

13.     Retirement
    Benefits — (Continued)

rate for the period July 1, 2002 through
September 30, 2002 and expense at a 6.5 percent
discount rate for the period October 1, 2002 through
June 30, 2003.

(2)

The healthcare cost trend rate reflects the
    estimated increase in gross medical claims costs as required to
    be disclosed by SFAS No. 132,

Employers’
    Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement
    Benefits

. The gross healthcare cost trend rate will decrease
    to 5.5% in 2009. As a result of the plan amendment adopted
    effective October 1, 2002, as more fully described below,
    the effective retiree medical cost increase to the Company will
    approach zero percent in 2005.

Effective October 1, 2002, the Company
amended its United States postretirement healthcare benefit
program in order to mitigate the increasing cost of
postretirement healthcare services. This change will be phased
in as follows: effective January 1, 2004, the Company, per
an amendment to this program implemented in 1992, will
contribute 50 percent of the amount in excess of the 2003
per capita amount. However, the Company’s calendar 2004
contribution shall be limited to a 7.5 percent increase
from the 2003 per capita amount. Effective January 1, 2005,
the Company will limit its future per capita maximum
contribution to its calendar 2004 per capita contribution.

Other Postretirement Benefits

Including the effect of the October 1, 2002
plan amendment, a one-percentage point change in assumed health
care cost trend rates would have the following effect (in
millions):

Pension Benefits

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated
benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for the pension
plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of the fair
value of plan assets (underfunded plans) were $1,734 million,
$1,486 million and $1,063 million, respectively, as of
the 2003 measurement date (June 30) and
$1,325 million, $1,137 million and $961 million,
respectively, as of the 2002 measurement date.

Defined Contribution Savings Plans

The Company also sponsors certain defined
contribution savings plans for eligible employees. Expense
related to these plans was $25 million for 2003, 2002 and
2001.

14.

Special Charges

In 2001, the Company recorded special charges of
$91 million ($60 million after tax, or 32 cents
per diluted share) for costs associated with the consolidation
and closing of facilities, the realignment of administrative
functions, the reduction of workforce, primarily in North
America, by approximately 2,000 employees and asset impairments.
The Company had completed these actions at September 30,
2002.

Total cash expenditures in connection with these
actions will approximate $50 million, and primarily relate
to employee severance and separation costs. Substantially all
had been spent as of September 30, 2003. In connection with
the Spinoff, Rockwell Collins assumed a liability for employee
severance and separation costs resulting from these actions of
approximately $7 million.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

14.     Special
Charges — (Continued)

The special charges included write-downs to the
carrying amount of goodwill, certain facilities and machinery
and equipment totaling approximately $27 million resulting
from the decision to shut down certain facilities and exit
non-strategic operations. The charges represented the difference
between the fair values of the assets and their carrying values.
Fair value was determined by management on the basis of various
customary valuation techniques.

The special charges are reflected in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended
September 30, 2001 in cost of sales in the amount of
$50 million and selling, general and administrative
expenses in the amount of $41 million.

15.

Discontinued Operations

The benefit of $7 million ($4 million
after tax) in discontinued operations in 2003 reflects income
from a favorable determination in a legal proceeding related to
the Company’s former operation of the Rocky Flats facility
of the Department of Energy.

The net benefit of $3 million in
discontinued operations in 2002 reflects the resolution of
certain obligations related to two discontinued businesses.
Related payments of approximately $36 million were made in
2002, which have been reflected as cash used by discontinued
operations in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows.

Summarized results of the Company’s Rockwell
Collins avionics and communications business for the year ended
September 30, 2001 are as follows (in millions):

The results of operations of the Company’s
Rockwell Collins avionics and communications business in 2001
include $21 million of costs directly related to the
Spinoff.

16.     Related Party
Transactions

The Company owns 50 percent of RSC. This
ownership interest is accounted for using the equity method. The
Company’s investment in RSC of $54 million at
September 30, 2003 and $50 million at
September 30, 2002 is included in other assets in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet.

The Company has an agreement with RSC pursuant to
which RSC performs research and development services for the
Company through 2004. The Company is obligated to pay RSC a
minimum of $3 million for such services in 2004. The
Company incurred approximately $3 million for research and
development services performed by RSC in 2003 and 2002. At
September 30, 2003 and 2002, the amounts due to RSC for
research and development services and from RSC for cost sharing
arrangements were not significant.

The Company shares equally with Rockwell Collins,
which owns 50 percent of RSC, in providing a
$4 million line of credit to RSC which bears interest at
the greater of the Company’s or Rockwell Collins’
commercial paper borrowing rate. At September 30, 2003 and
2002, there were no outstanding borrowings on the line of
credit. In addition, the Company and Rockwell Collins each
guarantees one-half of a lease agreement for one of RSC’s
facilities. The total future minimum lease payments under the
lease are approximately $6 million. The lease agreement has a
term which ends in December 2011.

The Company owns 25 percent of CoLinx, LLC
(CoLinx), a company that provides logistics and e-commerce
services. This ownership interest is accounted for using the
equity method. The Company paid CoLinx approximately
$15 million in 2003 and 2002, and $6 million in 2001,
primarily for logistics services. In addition, CoLinx paid the
Company approximately $2 million in 2003, $3 million
in 2002, and $2 million in


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

16.

Related Party
    Transactions — (Continued)

2001 for the use of facilities owned by the
Company and other services. The amounts due to and from CoLinx
at September 30, 2003 and 2002 were not significant.

17.     Other Income
(Expense)

The components of other income (expense) are
as follows (in millions):

During 2003, the Company sold a majority of its
ownership interest in REJ resulting in a loss of approximately
$8 million ($3 million after tax, or 1 cent per
diluted share). The loss includes a $9 million non-cash
charge related to the impairment of the Reliance trademark. The
after-tax loss on the sale includes a $2 million benefit
resulting from the Company’s ability to utilize capital
loss carryforwards for which a valuation allowance had been
previously provided. The proceeds of the transaction totaled
approximately $10 million.

18.     Income
Taxes

The components of the income tax provision are as
follows (in millions):

During 2003, the Company recognized in earnings a
tax benefit of $69 million related to a federal research and
experimentation credit refund claim (Claim) for the years 1997
through 2001. The federal portion of the Claim is subject to the
approval of the Joint Committee on Taxation of the United States
Congress and the related state tax benefits are subject to
approval by the various state tax authorities. The majority of
the proceeds from the Claim are expected to be received, or
netted against any liability arising


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

18.

Income
    Taxes — (Continued)

from the audit, upon the conclusion of the
current federal audit cycle which is expected in 2005. The
future annual income tax benefit related to research and
experimentation expenditures is not expected to be significant.

During 2002, the Company resolved certain tax
matters for the period of 1995-1999. The resolution resulted in
a $48 million reduction of the Company’s income tax
provision, of which $11 million is reflected in tax refund
claims in the current income tax provision and $37 million
is reflected in the United States deferred income tax provision.

During 2001, the Company reached agreement with
various taxing authorities on refund claims related to certain
prior years and recorded $22 million as a reduction of its
income tax provision.

Net current deferred income tax assets at
September 30, 2003 and 2002 consist of the tax effects of
temporary differences related to the following (in millions):

Net long-term deferred income tax liabilities at
September 30, 2003 and 2002 consist of the tax effects of
temporary differences related to the following (in millions):

Total deferred tax assets were $511 million
at September 30, 2003 and $447 million at
September 30, 2002. Total deferred tax liabilities were
$337 million at September 30, 2003 and $378 million at
September 30, 2002.

Management believes it is more likely than not
that current and long-term deferred tax assets will be realized
through the reduction of future taxable income. Significant
factors considered by management in its determination of the
probability of the realization of the deferred tax assets
include: (a) the historical operating results of the
Company ($404 million of United States taxable income over
the past three years), (b) expectations of future earnings,
and (c) the extended period of time over which the retiree
medical liability will be paid.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

18.

Income
    Taxes — (Continued)

Net operating loss, capital loss and tax credit
carryforwards, and related carryforward periods at
September 30, 2003 are summarized as follows (in millions):

A valuation allowance of $47 million was
established at September 30, 2003 for certain of these
carryforwards for which utilization is uncertain.

The effective income tax rate differed from the
United States statutory tax rate for the reasons set forth below:

In the second quarter of 2003, a tax benefit of
approximately $2 million was recognized as a result of the
Company’s ability to utilize certain capital loss
carryforwards for which a valuation allowance had been
previously provided. The ability to utilize the capital loss
carryforwards was the result of the sale of a majority of the
Company’s ownership interest in REJ which took place in the
second quarter of 2003.

The $48 million reduction of the 2002 income
tax provision resulting from the resolution of certain tax
matters for the period of 1995-1999 is reflected in the
effective income tax rate in tax refund claims (4.7%) and
resolution of prior period tax matters (16.0%).


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

18.

Income
    Taxes — (Continued)

The income tax provisions were calculated based
upon the following components of income from continuing
operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of
accounting change (in millions):

No provision has been made for United States,
state, or additional non-United States income taxes related to
approximately $200 million of undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries which have been or are intended to be
permanently reinvested. In 2003, the Company adjusted its
currency translation and deferred income taxes by approximately
$25 million resulting from a decision made by the Company
to permanently reinvest the earnings of certain of its foreign
subsidiaries. It is not practical to determine the United States
federal income tax liability, if any, which would be payable if
such earnings were not permanently reinvested.

Income taxes paid were $85 million during
2003, $37 million during 2002 and $213 million during
2001. Income taxes paid related to discontinued operations for
2001 were not significant.

19.     Commitments
and Contingent Liabilities

Environmental
Matters

Federal, state and local requirements relating to
the discharge of substances into the environment, the disposal
of hazardous wastes and other activities affecting the
environment have and will continue to have an effect on the
manufacturing operations of the Company. Thus far, compliance
with environmental requirements and resolution of environmental
claims has been accomplished without material effect on the
Company’s liquidity and capital resources, competitive
position or financial condition.

The Company has been designated as a potentially
responsible party at 14 Superfund sites, excluding sites as
to which the Company’s records disclose no involvement or
as to which the Company’s potential liability has been
finally determined and assumed by third parties. Management
estimates the total reasonably possible costs the Company could
incur for the remediation of Superfund sites at
September 30, 2003 to be about $17 million, of which
$7 million has been accrued.

Various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings
have been asserted against the Company alleging violations of
federal, state and local environmental protection requirements,
or seeking remediation of alleged environmental impairments,
principally at previously owned properties. As of
September 30, 2003, management has estimated the total
reasonably possible costs the Company could incur from these
matters to be about $52 million. The Company has recorded
environmental accruals for these matters of $21 million. In
addition to the above matters, the Company assumed certain other
environmental liabilities in connection with the 1995
acquisition of Reliance. The Company is indemnified by
ExxonMobil Corporation (Exxon) for substantially all costs
associated with these Reliance matters. At September 30,
2003, the Company has recorded a liability of approximately
$26 million and a receivable of approximately
$25 million for these Reliance matters. Management
estimates the total reasonably possible costs for these matters
to be approximately $37 million for which the Company is
substantially indemnified by Exxon.

Based on its assessment, management believes that
the Company’s expenditures for environmental capital
investment and remediation necessary to comply with present
regulations governing environmental protection and other
expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims will not
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity
and capital resources, competitive position or financial
condition. Management cannot assess the possible effect of
compliance with future requirements.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

19.

Commitments and Contingent
    Liabilities — (Continued)

Purchase Commitments

In connection with the sale of a Power Systems
business in 2000, the Company entered into a supply agreement
with the buyer of the business. The agreement requires minimum
purchases by the Company of approximately $21 million per
year through December 31, 2005 at prices which management
believes are higher than those available from other vendors. In
the event that purchases are less than $21 million in a
given year, the Company may incur penalties which are
25 percent of the amount by which the actual purchases were
less than the contractual minimum for the period. Penalties paid
by the Company under the terms of the supply agreement were
approximately $2 million in 2003 and approximately
$1 million in 2002. The liability recorded in connection
with the supply agreement was approximately $3 million at
September 30, 2003 and approximately $6 million at
September 30, 2002.

See Note 16 for a discussion on the
Company’s commitments to related parties.

Lease Commitments

Minimum future rental commitments under operating
leases having noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year
aggregated $214 million as of September 30, 2003 and
are payable as follows (in millions): 2004, $48; 2005, $38;
2006, $29; 2007, $25; 2008, $17; and after 2008, $57.
Commitments from third parties under sublease agreements having
noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year aggregated
$22 million as of September 30, 2003 and are
receivable through 2009 at approximately $4 million per
year. Most leases contain renewal options for varying periods,
and certain leases include options to purchase the leased
property during or at the end of the lease term.

Rental expense was $83 million in 2003,
$84 million in 2002, and $86 million in 2001.

Other Matters

Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have
been or may be instituted or asserted against the Company
relating to the conduct of its business, including those
pertaining to product liability, intellectual property, safety
and health, employment and contract matters. In connection with
the divestiture of its former aerospace and defense businesses
(the A&D Business) to The Boeing Company (Boeing), Rockwell
Automation agreed to indemnify Boeing for certain matters
related to operations of the A&D Business for periods prior
to the divestiture. In connection with the spinoffs of the
Company’s former automotive component systems business,
semiconductor systems business and Rockwell Collins avionics and
communications business, the spun-off companies have agreed to
indemnify Rockwell Automation for substantially all contingent
liabilities related to the respective businesses, including
environmental and intellectual property matters. Although the
outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and
some lawsuits, claims, or proceedings may be disposed of
unfavorably to the Company, management believes the disposition
of matters which are pending or asserted will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s business or
financial condition.

The Company has, from time to time, divested
certain of its businesses. In connection with such divestitures,
there may be lawsuits, claims and proceedings instituted or
asserted against the Company related to the period that the
businesses were owned by the Company. In addition, the Company
has guaranteed performance and payment under certain contracts
of divested businesses, including a $60 million lease
obligation of the Company’s former semiconductor systems
business, now Conexant Systems, Inc. (Conexant). The lease
obligation of Conexant is secured by real property subject to
the lease and is within a range of estimated fair values of the
real property. In consideration for this guarantee, the Company
receives $250,000 per quarter from Conexant through
December 31, 2003. The guarantee expires in 2005.
Management believes that any judgments against the Company
related to such matters or claims pursuant to the guarantees
would not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
business or financial condition.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

20.     Business
Segment Information

Rockwell Automation is a provider of industrial
automation power, control and information products and services.
The Company is organized based upon products and services and
has three operating segments consisting of Control Systems,
Power Systems and FirstPoint Contact. The Company has a
50 percent ownership interest in RSC and accounts for its
interest in RSC using the equity method.

Control Systems

The Control Systems operating segment is a
supplier of industrial automation products, systems, software
and services focused on helping customers control and improve
manufacturing processes and is divided into three units: the
Components and Packaged Applications Group (CPAG), the
Automation Control and Information Group (ACIG) and Global
Manufacturing Solutions (GMS).

CPAG produces industrial components, power
control and motor management products, and packaged and
engineered products. It supplies both electro-mechanical and
solid-state products, including motor starters and contactors,
push buttons and signaling devices, termination and protection
devices, relays and timers, discrete and condition sensors and
variable speed drives. CPAG’s sales account for
approximately 40 percent of Control Systems’ sales.

ACIG’s products include programmable logic
controllers (PLCs). PLCs are used to automate the control and
monitoring of industrial plants and processes and typically
consist of a computer processor and input/output devices. The
Company’s Logix integrated architecture integrates multiple
types of controls disciplines including discrete, process,
drive, motion and safety control across various factory floor
operating systems. ACIG also produces distributed I/O
(input/output) platforms, high performance rotary and linear
motion control systems, electronic operator interface devices,
plant floor industrial computers and machine safety components.
ACIG’s sales account for approximately 40 percent of
Control Systems’ sales.

GMS provides multi-vendor automation and
information systems and solutions which help customers improve
their manufacturing operations. Solutions include multi-vendor
customer support, training, software, consulting and
implementation, asset management, and manufacturing information
solutions for discrete and targeted batch process industries.
GMS’s sales account for approximately 20 percent of
Control Systems’ sales.

Power Systems

The Power Systems operating segment is divided
into two units: the Mechanical Power Transmission Business
(Mechanical) and the Industrial Motor and Drive Business
(Electrical).

Mechanical’s products include mounted
bearings, gear reducers, standard mechanical drives, conveyor
pulleys, couplings, bushings, clutches and motor brakes.
Electrical’s products include industrial and engineered
motors and standard AC and DC drives. In addition, Power Systems
provides product repair, motor and mechanical maintenance
solutions, plant maintenance, training and consulting services
to OEM’s, end users and distributors.

FirstPoint Contact

The FirstPoint Contact operating segment provides
customer contact center solutions that support multiple channels
(voice, e-mail, web, wireless) through open interaction
infrastructure. Products include automatic call distributors,
computer telephony integration software, information collection,
reporting, queuing and management systems, call center systems
and consulting services.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

20.

Business Segment
    Information — (Continued)

The following tables reflect the sales and
operating results of the Company’s reportable segments for
the years ended September 30 (in millions):

Other represents the sales and segment operating
earnings of Rockwell Science Center through the third quarter of
2001. Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2001, the
Company’s 50 percent ownership interest in RSC is
accounted for using the equity method, and the Company’s
proportional share of RSC’s earnings or losses are included
in general corporate — net.

Effective October 1, 2001, the Company
adopted SFAS 142. As a result of adopting SFAS 142,
the Company no longer amortizes goodwill and certain other
intangible assets that have been deemed to have an indefinite
useful life. The amortization of goodwill and the intangible
assets that have been deemed to have an indefinite useful life
was $56 million in 2001.

Among other considerations, the Company evaluates
performance and allocates resources based upon segment operating
earnings before income taxes, interest expense, costs related to
corporate offices, nonrecurring special charges, gains and
losses from the disposition of businesses, earnings and losses
from equity affiliates which are not considered part of the
operations of a particular segment and incremental acquisition
related expenses resulting from purchase accounting adjustments
such as goodwill and other intangible asset amortization,
depreciation, inventory and purchased research and development
charges. Intersegment sales are made at market prices. The
accounting policies used in preparing the segment information
are consistent with those described in Note 1. Special
charges are discussed in Note 14.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

20.

Business Segment
    Information — (Continued)

The following tables summarize the identifiable
assets at September 30, the provision for depreciation and
amortization and the amount of capital expenditures for property
for the years ended September 30 for each of the reportable
segments and Corporate (in millions):

Identifiable assets at Corporate consist
principally of cash, net deferred income tax assets, property
and the 50 percent ownership interest in RSC.

The Company conducts a significant portion of its
business activities outside the United States. The following
tables reflect geographic sales and property by geographic
region (in millions):

Sales are attributed to the geographic regions
based on the country of origin.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

21.

Quarterly Financial Information
    (Unaudited)

Net income for 2003 includes:

(a) a tax benefit of $69 million, or
    37 cents per diluted share, related to the settlement of a
    U.S. federal research and experimentation refund claim;

(b) income of $7 million
    ($4 million after tax, or 2 cents per diluted share),
    reflected in discontinued operations, from a favorable
    determination in a legal proceeding related to the
    Company’s former operation of the Rocky Flats facility of
    the Department of Energy;

(c) a charge of $5 million
    ($3 million after tax, or 2 cents per diluted share),
    due to higher estimated future costs for environmental
    remediation near the Russellville, Kentucky facility of the
    Company’s former Measurement and Flow Control business.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

21.

Quarterly Financial Information
    (Unaudited) — (Continued)

Net income for 2002 includes:


INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareowners of

Rockwell Automation, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet of Rockwell Automation, Inc. and subsidiaries as
of September 30, 2003 and 2002, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, shareowners’ equity,
cash flows, and comprehensive income for each of the three years
in the period ended September 30, 2003. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 15(a)(2). These financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Rockwell Automation, Inc. and subsidiaries
at September 30, 2003 and 2002, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended September 30, 2003, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

As described in Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, on October 1, 2001, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Milwaukee, Wisconsin

November 5, 2003


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial
    Disclosure.

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures.

The Company carried out an evaluation, under the
supervision and with the participation of the Company’s
management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, of the effectiveness, as of
September 30, 2003, of the design and operation of the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to
Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based upon that evaluation, the
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are
effective as of the end of the year ended September 30,
2003 to timely alert them to material information relating to
the Company (including its consolidated subsidiaries) required
to be included in the Company’s Exchange Act filings.

There have been no changes in the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting during the fiscal
quarter ended September 30, 2003 that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Company.

See the information under the captions

Election of Directors, Information as to Nominees for
Directors and Continuing Directors

and

Board of
Directors and Committees

in the 2004 Proxy Statement.

No nominee for director was selected pursuant to
any arrangement or understanding between the nominee and any
person other than the Company pursuant to which such person is
or was to be selected as a director or nominee. See also the
information with respect to executive officers of the Company
under Item 4a of Part I hereof.

The Company has adopted a code of ethics that
applies to its executive officers, including its principal
executive officer, principal financial officer and principal
accounting officer. A copy of the Company’s code of ethics
is posted on its Internet site at
http://www.rockwellautomation.com. In the event that the Company
makes any amendment to, or grants any waiver from, a provision
of the code of ethics that applies to the principal executive
officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting
officer and that requires disclosure under applicable SEC rules,
the Company intends to disclose such amendment or waiver and the
reasons therefor on its Internet site.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation.

See the information under the captions

Executive Compensation, Option Grants and Aggregated
Option Exercises and Fiscal Year-End Values

and

Retirement Plans

in the 2004 Proxy Statement.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters.

See the information under the captions

Voting Securities, Ownership by Management of Equity
Securities and Equity Compensation Plan Information

in
the 2004 Proxy Statement.


Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions.

See the information under the caption

Board
of Directors and Committees

in the 2004 Proxy Statement.

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and
    Services.

See the information under the caption

Proposal to Approve the Selection of Auditors

in
the 2004 Proxy Statement.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule and
    Reports on Form 8-K.

(a) Financial Statements, Financial
Statement Schedule and Exhibits.

(1)

Financial Statements (all financial statements
    listed below are those of the Company and its consolidated
    subsidiaries).

(2)

Financial Statement Schedule for the years ended
    September 30, 2003, 2002 and 2001.

Schedules not filed herewith are omitted because
    of the absence of conditions under which they are required or
    because the information called for is shown in the consolidated
    financial statements or notes thereto.

(3)

Exhibits.

* Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


* Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


* Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


* Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


* Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


* Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


* Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


* Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K.

The Company filed a current report on
    Form 8-K dated July 22, 2003 with respect to
    announcing financial results for the quarter ended June 30,
    2003 (Items 7 and 12).


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

ROCKWELL AUTOMATION, INC.

By

/s/ MICHAEL A. BLESS

Michael A. Bless

Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

(principal financial officer)

By

/s/ WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.

William J. Calise, Jr.

Senior Vice President,

General Counsel and Secretary

By

/s/ DAVID M. DORGAN

David M. Dorgan

Vice President and Controller

(principal accounting officer)

Dated: December 3, 2003

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on the
3rd day of December 2003 by the following persons on behalf of
the registrant and in the capacities indicated.

*By

/s/ WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.

William J. Calise, Jr.,
    Attorney-in-fact**

**By authority of powers of attorney filed
herewith


SCHEDULE II

ROCKWELL AUTOMATION, INC.

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the Years Ended September 30, 2003,
2002 and 2001

(a)

Includes allowances for current and other
    long-term receivables.

(b)

Consists principally of amounts written off for
    the allowance for doubtful accounts and excess and obsolete
    inventory and adjustments resulting from the Company’s
    ability to utilize foreign tax credit, capital loss, or net
    operating loss carryforwards for which a valuation allowance had
    previously been recorded.

S-1

INDEX TO EXHIBITS*

*

See Part IV, Item 15(a)(3) for exhibits
    incorporated by reference.