ITEM 1.      BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

LKQ Corporation ("LKQ" or the "Company") provides replacement parts, components and systems needed to repair cars and trucks. Buyers of vehicle replacement products have the option to purchase from primarily five sources: new products produced by original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), which are commonly known as OEM products; new products produced by companies other than the OEMs, which are sometimes referred to as aftermarket products; recycled products originally produced by OEMs; used products that have been refurbished; and used products that have been remanufactured.

We distribute a variety of products to collision and mechanical repair shops, including aftermarket collision and mechanical products, recycled collision and mechanical products, refurbished collision replacement products such as wheels, bumper covers and lights, and remanufactured engines. Collectively, we refer to our products as alternative parts. We are the nation's largest provider of alternative vehicle collision replacement products and a leading provider of alternative vehicle mechanical replacement products, with our sales, processing, and distribution facilities reaching most major markets in the United States.  Our wholesale operations also reach most major markets in Canada, and we are a leading provider of alternative vehicle mechanical replacement products in the United Kingdom.  In addition to our wholesale operations, we operate self service retail facilities across the U.S. that sell recycled automotive products. We have organized our businesses into three operating segments: Wholesale—North America; Wholesale—Europe; and Self Service.  We aggregate our North American operating segments (Wholesale—North America and Self Service) into one reportable segment, resulting in two reportable segments: North America and Europe.  SeeNote 15, "Segment and Geographic Information" to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for financial information by reportable segment and by geographic region.

We obtain the majority of our aftermarket inventory from automotive parts manufacturers and distributors based in the U.S., Taiwan, Europe and China. We procure recycled automotive products mainly by purchasing salvage vehicles, typically severely damaged by collisions and primarily sold at salvage auctions or pools, and then dismantling and inventorying the parts. The refurbished and remanufactured products that we sell, such as wheels, bumper covers, lights and engines, originate from the salvage vehicles bought at auctions and from parts received in trade from customers purchasing replacement products from us.

The majority of our products and services are sold to collision repair shops, also known as body shops, and mechanical repair shops. We indirectly rely on insurance companies, which ultimately pay for the majority of collision repairs of insured vehicles, to help drive demand. Insurance companies tend to exert significant influence in the vehicle repair decision. Because of their importance to the process, we have formed relationships with certain insurance companies in North America for which we are designated a preferred products supplier.  We are attempting to establish similar relationships with insurance companies in Europe.

We provide customers with a value proposition that includes high quality products at lower cost than new OEM products, extensive product availability due to our expansive distribution network, responsive service and quick delivery. The breadth of our alternative parts offerings allows us to serve as a "one-stop" solution for our customers looking for the most cost effective way to provide quality repairs.

We strive to be environmentally responsible. Our recycled automotive products provide an alternative to the manufacture of new products, which would require the expenditure of significantly more resources and energy and would generate a substantial amount of additional pollution. In addition, we save landfill space because the parts that we recycle would otherwise be discarded. We also collect materials, such as metals, plastics, fuel and motor oil, from the salvage vehicles that we procure, and use them in our operations or sell them to other users.

HISTORY

Since our formation in 1998, we have grown through internal development and over 150 acquisitions. Today, LKQ is the only supplier of alternative parts for the automotive collision and mechanical repair industry with a network and presence serving most major markets in the U.S. and Canada. We are also the largest supplier of automotive aftermarket products, reaching most major markets, in the U.K.

Initially formed through the combination of a number of wholesale recycled products businesses located in Florida, Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin, LKQ grew to be a leading source for recycled automotive collision and mechanical products. We subsequently expanded through acquisitions of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured product suppliers and manufacturers, and also expanded into the self service retail business. The most significant increase to our business was through the acquisition of Keystone Automotive Industries, Inc. in October 2007, which, at the time of acquisition, was the leading domestic distributor of aftermarket products, including collision replacement products, paint products, refurbished steel bumpers, bumper covers and alloy wheels.












In October 2011, we expanded our operations into the European automotive aftermarket business through our acquisition of Euro Car Parts Holdings Limited ("ECP").  As of December 31, 2012, ECP operated out of 130 branches, supported by a national distribution center and nine regional hubs from which multiple deliveries are made each day. ECP's product offerings are primarily focused on automotive aftermarket mechanical products, many of which are sourced from the same suppliers that provide products to the OEMs. The expansion of our geographic presence beyond North America into the European market offers an opportunity to us as that market has historically had a low penetration of alternative collision parts.

In 2012, we made30acquisitions in North America, including22wholesale businesses andeightself service retail operations.  These acquisitions enabled us to expand our geographic presence and enter new markets.  Additionally, two of our acquisitions were completed with a goal of improving the recovery from scrap and other metals harvested from the vehicles we purchase:  a precious metals refining and reclamation business, which we acquired with the goal of improving the profitability of the precious metals we extract from our recycled vehicle parts; and a scrap metal shredder, which we expect will improve the profitability of the scrap metals recovered from the vehicle hulks in certain of our recycled product operations.

Subsequent to December 31, 2012, we completed the acquisition of an aftermarket product distributor in the U.K. and a paint distribution business in Canada.  We expect to make additional strategic acquisitions in 2013 in domestic and international markets as we continue to build an integrated distribution network offering a broad range of alternative parts.

STRATEGY

Sources of high quality, reliable alternatives to OEM products are important to insurance companies and to our direct customers as they seek to control repair costs. Lower parts costs and quicker completion of orders save money and reduce cycle times. In order to execute this strategy and build on our progress thus far, we will continue to seek to expand into new markets and to improve penetration both organically and through acquisitions in targeted markets.

National network in place

LKQ has invested significant capital to develop a network of alternative parts facilities across the U.S. and Canada. The difficulty and time required to obtain proper zoning, as well as dismantling and other environmental permits necessary to operate newly-sited recycled product facilities, would make establishing a new network of locations a challenge for a competitor. In addition, there are difficulties associated with recruiting and hiring an experienced management team that has strong industry knowledge.

We believe there are growth opportunities in new primary and secondary markets in the U.S., Canada and Europe. We intend to expand our market coverage through a combination of internal development and acquisitions in new regions and adjacent markets. Our broad network allows us to initially enter new, adjacent markets by establishing local redistribution facilities, avoiding the need for significant upfront capital outlays to establish local dismantling capabilities and inventories.  We also believe opportunities exist to leverage our national distribution network to expand into complementary product lines as we have done with our remanufactured engines and paint products.

Strong business relationships

We have developed business relationships with automobile insurance companies, collision and mechanical repair shops, suppliers and other industry participants. We believe that insurance companies, as payers for many repairs, take active roles in the selection of alternative replacement products for vehicle repairs in order to minimize the repair portion of the claims costs and reduce cycle time. On behalf of certain insurance companies, we provide a review of vehicle repair estimates so they may assess the opportunity to increase usage of alternative products in the repair process, thereby reducing their costs. Our employees also provide quotes for our products to assist several insurance companies with their estimate and settlement












processes. We also work with insurance companies and vehicle manufacturers to procure salvage vehicles directly from them on a selected basis, which provides us with an additional source of supply and offers lower transaction costs to sellers of low value salvage vehicles. We believe we are positioned to take advantage of the increasing importance these industry participants have in the repair process and will continue to look for ways to enhance our relationships with them.

We provide quality assurance programs that offer additional product support to automobile insurance companies. These product support programs identify specific subsets of aftermarket products by vendor and product type that can be used in the repair of vehicles that these companies insure. The programs typically offer aftermarket products that have been produced by manufacturers certified by a third party testing lab. We may provide additional validation of the quality of the products beyond our standard warranties, and identification details that make the products traceable back to a manufacturer's specific production run.

To strengthen our relationship with collision shops, we developed "Keyless," a program that enables collision repair shops to link their estimating systems with our aftermarket and recycled inventory. It is compatible with all of the major estimating systems, and in 2012 certain of the estimating systems began using technologies that are fully integrated with our inventory system.  These solutions provide real-time inventory availability and encourage the use of alternative products by indicating to the collision shop the availability of applicable alternative products at the time of the estimate. It also provides demand information to our purchasing department and offers sales leads for our sales representatives.

Technology driven business processes

We focus on technology development as a way to support our competitive advantage. We believe that we can more cost effectively leverage our data to make better business decisions than our smaller competitors. We continue to develop our technology to better manage and analyze our inventory, assist our salespeople with up-to-date pricing and availability of our products, and further enhance our inventory procurement process. For example, our bidding specialists responsible for procuring vehicles are equipped with handheld computing devices that compare the vehicles at the salvage auctions to our current inventory, historical demand, and recent average prices to arrive at an estimated maximum bid. This bidding system reduces the likelihood of purchasing unneeded parts that might result in obsolete inventory.

We deploy inventory management systems at our facilities that are similar to those used by leading distribution companies. We make extensive use of bar code technology and wireless data transmission to track parts from the time a vehicle or product arrives at a facility to its placement on a truck for delivery to the customer. With this real-time information, the sales representatives in our North American wholesale operations can quickly and reliably determine the availability of our inventory to better address our wholesale customers' needs.  In the U.K., we use an integrated inventory management system that provides up-to-the-minute information on available stock by location to ensure availability of high-demand inventory. Based on daily sales activity, the system directs the needed overnight deliveries to replenish stock levels among the national distribution center, hubs and branch locations to ensure product availability to meet local customer demand.

Demand driven procurement

We believe efficient procurement of aftermarket products and salvage vehicles is critical to the growth of the operating results and cash flow of our business. We use information systems and proprietary methodologies to help us identify high demand aftermarket and recycled products. Our aftermarket inventory systems track products sold and sales lost due to a lack of inventory, and make purchase recommendations based on this information. The inventory systems also recommend purchases and transfers based on the extent and location of demand, as well as other replenishment factors. Our buying team reviews the recommendations and places orders accordingly. When we procure aftermarket products or refurbish collision replacement products such as wheels, bumper covers and lights, we focus on products that are in the most demand by the insured repair market. Our most popular aftermarket products are collision replacement products such as hoods and fenders, bumper covers, head lamps and tail lamps. Because lead times may take 40 days or more on imported products, sales volume and in-stock inventory are important factors in the procurement process.

Our information systems prioritize and recommend bid prices for the salvage vehicles we evaluate for purchase. Our processes and systems help to identify with a high degree of accuracy the value of the parts that can be recycled on a salvage vehicle and recommend a maximum purchase price to achieve our target profitability from the resale of the recycled products. We also use historical sales records of vehicles by model and year to estimate the demand for our products. Combining this information with proprietary data that aggregate customer requests for products, we are able to source aftermarket products and salvage vehicles at prices that we believe will allow us to sell products profitably.

High fulfillment rates

We manage local inventory levels to improve delivery time and maximize customer service.  Improving local order fulfillment rates reduces transfer costs and delivery times, and improves customer satisfaction. Our ability to share inventory on a regional basis increases the availability of replacement products and also helps us to fill a higher percentage of our customers'












requests. We have developed regional trading zones within which we make our inventory available to our local facilities, mostly via overnight product transfers. We manage our purchasing and recycled product inventory on a regional basis to enhance the availability of the products that we believe will be in the highest demand within each region. We believe that our fulfillment rates are generally higher than the industry average, which distinguishes us from our competition.

Broad product offering

The breadth and depth of our inventory reinforces LKQ's ability to provide a "one-stop" solution for our customers' alternative vehicle replacement product needs. Customers place a high value on the availability of a broad range of vehicle replacement products. We are able to provide the collision and mechanical repair industry with premium products at costs typically 20% to 50% below new OEM replacement products. The availability of alternative products means that automobiles can be repaired at lower costs and contributes to cars being repaired rather than designated as total losses by insurance companies. In fact, many insurance companies in North America will not authorize the use of higher cost, new OEM replacement products if alternative products are available. Our ability to supply these products gives insurance companies the confidence to designate LKQ as a preferred supplier for their repair shops. With our distribution network that reaches the major markets in the U.S. and Canada, combined with our extensive range of products, we believe we are the only supplier that is able to support the insurance industry in this manner. We believe we will be positioned to provide similar services to the insurance industry in the U.K. as we expand our collision product offerings and continue to build the national distribution network there.

Our aftermarket and refurbished product lines are particularly broad, with more than 107,000 SKUs sold in North America in 2012.  In order to address the multiple needs of our customers, we offer our Platinum Plus line of high quality aftermarket products with lifetime warranties and our Value Line of aftermarket products when cost is the main factor for vehicle repairs.  Our U.K. operations also offer a broad range of products, with more than 112,000 individual SKUs sold in 2012.

Certain of our products are certified by independent organizations such as the Certified Automotive Parts Association ("CAPA") and NSF International ("NSF"). CAPA and NSF are associations that evaluate the functional equivalence of aftermarket collision replacement products to OEM collision replacement products. Members of CAPA and NSF include insurance companies, product distributors (including LKQ), collision repair shops and consumers. CAPA and NSF develop engineering specifications for aftermarket collision replacement products based upon examinations of OEM products; certify the factories, manufacturing processes and quality control procedures used by independent manufacturers; and certify the materials, fit and finish of specific aftermarket collision replacement products.

In 2011, LKQ became the first automotive parts distributor to become certified under the NSF International Automotive Parts Distributor Certification Program, which addresses the needs of collision repair shops and insurers by maintaining quality management systems to address part traceability, service and quality. This certification program complements the existing parts certification program with NSF under which LKQ has a broad range of certified automotive collision replacement parts. Many major insurance companies have adopted policies recommending or requiring the use of products certified by CAPA or NSF. A number of CAPA and NSF certified products are also marketed under the Platinum Plus brand.

One call away

To execute our strategy of offering a broad inventory with high fulfillment rates, we offer our customers the choice of aftermarket or recycled products. For many parts, we also offer refurbished or remanufactured product options. If, for example, a customer has a damaged bumper, we may offer that customer the choice of a recycled bumper, a new aftermarket bumper, or a refurbished bumper. Because recycled products are in limited supply, our ability to offer additional alternative product options increases our fulfillment rates and customer satisfaction. Historically, the distribution channels for aftermarket and refurbished products have been separate from those for recycled and remanufactured products; however, we are combining these channels through the sharing of warehousing, inventory, sales and distribution systems so that our repair shop customers need only one source of supply for their alternative repair products.

NORTH AMERICA SEGMENT

Wholesale Automotive Products

Our wholesale automobile product operations in North America are organized by geographic regions serving the U.S. and Canada that sell all four product types to collision and mechanical automobile repair businesses.  Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2012, we aligned the reporting structure of our heavy-duty truck salvage yards with the geographic reporting structure of our wholesale operations, under which each of our wholesale regions incorporated the heavy-duty truck locations into the respective geographic boundaries.  As a result, the heavy-duty truck yards that composed a separate operating segment prior to 2012 are included within the Wholesale - North America operating segment.  By aligning the heavy-duty truck yards












with our wholesale facilities that offer alternative parts for automobiles and light and medium-duty trucks, the heavy-duty truck operations will be able to leverage the distribution network of our wholesale operations and take advantage of cross-selling opportunities.  As of December 31, 2012, our North American wholesale operations conducted business from more than 320 facilities.

As we have combined the distribution channels for our alternative parts offerings, we also leverage our facility and warehouse costs and improve local product availability by locating multiple product operations together. Our aftermarket product operations may include a combination of sales, warehousing and distribution, and in many cases will be co-located with our refurbishing operations. Our recycled product operations, which we may also co-locate with aftermarket warehouses, typically have processing, sales, distribution and administrative operations on site, indoor and outdoor storage areas, and include a large warehouse with multiple bays to dismantle vehicles. Our engine remanufacturing operations are conducted primarily at our facility in Mexico, with sales, warehousing and distribution in the U.S.

Wholesale Aftermarket Products

Our 2012 sales included more than 89,000 SKUs of aftermarket automotive products, excluding refurbished products, for the most common models of domestic and foreign automobiles and light trucks, primarily for the repair of vehicles three to seven years old. Our principal aftermarket product types consist of those most frequently damaged in collisions, including automotive body panels, bumper covers and lights. In recent years, our expansion in complementary product types, such as paint and cooling products, contributed to the increase in our available products and has allowed us to better meet our customers' repair needs.

Platinum Plus is our exclusive product line offered in the Keystone brand of aftermarket products. The Platinum Plus products are held to high quality standards and tested by quality assurance teams. We provide a warranty for as long as a consumer owns the vehicle on which the product was installed. Many of our Platinum Plus products are used for repairs that are ultimately paid for by insurance companies and are part of our quality assurance programs.

We have also developed a product line called "Value Line" for more value conscious, often self-pay, consumers. Our Value Line products offer quality products at reasonable prices, providing additional choices for repairs or rebuilding of vehicles. The Value Line product line includes most product categories.

We distribute paint and other materials used in repairing damaged vehicles, including sandpaper, abrasives, masking products and plastic filler. The paint and other materials distributed by us are purchased from numerous suppliers in the U.S. and Canada. Certain of these products are distributed under the brand "Keystone."

Procurement of Inventory

The aftermarket products we distribute are purchased from independent manufacturers and distributors located primarily in the U.S. and Taiwan. In 2012, approximately 37% of our aftermarket purchases were made from our top four vendors, with our largest vendor providing approximately 12% of our inventory. We believe we are one of the largest customers of each of these suppliers. Outside of this group, no other supplier provided more than 5% of our supply of aftermarket products. We purchased approximately 42% of our aftermarket products directly from manufacturers in Taiwan and other Asian countries. Approximately 58% of our aftermarket products were purchased from vendors located in the U.S. and Canada. However, we believe the majority of these products were manufactured in Taiwan, Mexico or other foreign countries.

We benefit from an automated procurement system for aftermarket goods that makes order and inventory transfer recommendations using product sales and data for lost sales due to stockouts. Buyers review the system's recommendations and then place purchase orders or arrange for a redistribution of inventory to areas of higher demand. Typically six months after the products are introduced, the automated system has sufficient data to make order recommendations.  For new products, we use vehicle volume and registrations by state to influence what new products should be ordered and where the stock should be located.

We have business arrangements with manufacturers to produce our Platinum Plus products. These agreements automatically renew for additional 12 month periods unless written notice is given. While we compete with other distributors for production capacity, we believe that our sources of supply and our relationships with our suppliers are satisfactory.

We usually receive orders within ten days from domestic suppliers. Foreign orders typically are shipped in sea containers directly to 94 of our aftermarket locations, and are received within 40 to 60 days from the date ordered. Beginning in 2012, we operate an aftermarket parts warehouse in Taiwan that aggregates inventory from certain of our vendors for shipment to our North American locations.  We have 24 regional hubs and three distribution centers, which act as sources for our other non-container-direct aftermarket warehouse locations and serve as redistribution centers for our operations. This structure is designed to maximize our fulfillment rates as smaller branches can have a high fill-rate of next day availability.












Wholesale Recycled Products

Our most popular recycled products include engines, transmissions and axle assemblies, door assemblies, sheet metal products such as trunk lids, fenders and hoods, head and tail lamp assemblies and bumper assemblies.  Some insurance companies mandate that the recycled products must be of the same model year or newer as the vehicle being repaired. As a result, the majority of the products we sell are from vehicles not more than ten years of age. We have adopted the industry's grading system based on the condition of the product, and factor product grades into our pricing decisions. Unlike aftermarket products that are individually boxed, recycled products are most frequently sold as subassemblies or multiple pre-assembled parts. Installing recycled products often means that collision shops not only save on product cost, but, because several products may come pre-assembled, the shops are also able to reduce labor costs.

Procurement of Inventory

We procure recycled products for our wholesale operations by acquiring damaged or totaled vehicles. Vehicles that have been declared "total losses" typically are sold at regional salvage auctions throughout the U.S. and Canada. Salvage auctions charge fees both to the suppliers of vehicles, primarily insurance companies, and to the purchasers, such as LKQ. Additionally, we typically pay third parties fees to tow the vehicles from the auction to our facilities.

The availability of the salvage vehicles we procure for our late model recycled product operations may be impacted by a variety factors, including the production level of new vehicles (which provides the source from which salvage vehicles ultimately come) and the portion of damaged vehicles declared total losses.  Over the past several years, the frequency with which vehicles are declared total losses has increased as a result¸ we believe, of the rise in repair costs relative to vehicle replacement cost. In 2000, approximately 9% of accident claims resulted in a total loss; by 2012, this percentage increased to almost 14%.  While the percentage of vehicles declared as total losses has increased, the supply of late model vehicles at auction has declined due to fewer cars produced in 2008 and 2009.  New vehicle sales began to increase again in 2010, and industry reports project that new car sales will continue to grow over the next several years.  These trends should increase the volume of salvage vehicles at auction.

In 2012, LKQ acquired254,000salvage vehicles for our wholesale recycled product operations with 97% purchased at salvage auctions. Prior to the scheduled auction date, our salvage buyers may preview the auctions online to investigate the vehicles to be sold and determine our interest in buying them. They obtain key information such as the model and mileage, and perform visual damage assessments to determine which parts on the targeted vehicles are recyclable. With the data from this preview, we deploy a bidding system that performs a valuation calculation for each vehicle. In order to recommend a maximum bid price, the calculation incorporates demand for a vehicle's recyclable parts, current inventory levels, average selling prices, auction costs, projected margins and instances of out-of-stock. Using this disciplined supply and demand procurement approach, we place bids on the targeted vehicles. In most cases, we attend auctions in person, although some of our purchasing is done through an online auction system.

We acquired 3% of the salvage vehicles we purchased for wholesale parts in 2012 directly from insurance companies, vehicle manufacturers, and other direct sellers. These arrangements eliminate the fees charged to the buyers and sellers by the salvage auction, often providing inventory with a lower initial expenditure of capital. Direct purchase agreements, while usually beneficial, have limited applicability to our procurement because vehicle auctions provide us with the flexibility to focus on sought after vehicles based on our bidding algorithms.

Vehicle Processing

Vehicle processing for our wholesale recycled operations involves dismantling a salvage vehicle into recycled products that are ready for sale. When a salvage vehicle arrives at one of our facilities, an inventory specialist identifies, catalogs, and schedules the vehicle for dismantling. Prior to dismantling, we remove from each vehicle its fluids, Freon, and parts containing hazardous substances or precious metals such as catalytic converters. The extracted fluids are stored in bulk and subsequently sold to recyclers. In the case of gasoline, the fuel retrieved is primarily used to power our delivery vehicles. A small portion of the recycled motor oil we collect is used at certain of our plants that have high-efficiency oil burning furnaces; the balance is sold to motor oil recyclers.

When ready for dismantling, each vehicle will have an inventory report that indicates to the dismantler which parts should be removed and placed in a warehouse for future sales to customers, which parts should be collected in bulk for our refurbishing and remanufacturing operations or for sale to parts remanufacturers, and which parts have value but should remain on the vehicle until sold.

Products that are placed directly on our shelves are typically higher sales volume items such as engines, transmissions, door assemblies, head and tail lamp assemblies, bumper covers, trunk lids and fenders.  Many of the recycled products we sell are subassemblies of multiple parts including quarter panels and front end assemblies. The subassemblies are cut from the vehicle bodies, usually using specific parameters provided by the repair shop at the time of sale.












If there is strong demand for products that are currently at high stock levels in our warehouses, we may choose to hold the vehicle for further dismantling at some future date when we are more likely to have a need for the parts. The holding period for partially dismantled car bodies will depend on the space available at the site. Once all of the parts of value have been removed, the remaining vehicle frame is crushed and sold to scrap processors.

Prior to placement on our warehouse shelves, each inventory item is given a unique bar code tag for identification and entered into our inventory tracking system. We utilize bar coding systems and wireless transmission to keep track of inventory from the time a product is removed and inventoried, to the time it is sold and put on a truck for delivery.

Refurbished and Remanufactured Products

As of December 31, 2012, we operated 27 plastic bumper and bumper cover refurbishing plants, a chrome bumper plating plant, 13 wheel refurbishing plants, three light refurbishing plants and four engine remanufacturing facilities.

When identifying the products that we refurbish or remanufacture, we focus on products that have high demand. The majority of our refurbished and remanufactured products are processed from cores obtained from salvage vehicles purchased by our recycled operations and damaged cores collected by our route delivery drivers from vehicles under repair by our customers. These products are accumulated from our wholesale operations at our core sorting facilities, and are then either sent to our refurbishing or remanufacturing facilities or sold in bulk to other mechanical remanufacturers. Our sales capacity for these products is limited by the availability of cores to refurbish.

In addition to the products we refurbish or remanufacture in-house, we sell some remanufactured mechanical products, such as engines and transmissions, acquired from other mechanical remanufacturers.  Most of our refurbished and remanufactured products are sold through our wholesale distribution channels. The balance is sold to retail automotive stores, wholesale distributors and via internet sales.

Heavy-Duty Truck Products

LKQ started its heavy-duty recycled truck product operations in 2008 with the acquisition of a recycler based in Houston, Texas. As of December 31, 2012, we had a total of 27 facilities in the U.S. and Canada. We began our recycled truck operations with a belief that a network offering alternative repair products for heavy-duty trucks would provide similar opportunities as our wholesale product distribution network for automobiles and light and medium-duty trucks.  By including our heavy-duty truck yards in the geographic regions of our wholesale business beginning in the fourth quarter of 2012, we expect to leverage the established distribution network of our wholesale operations for the benefit of these heavy-duty truck operations.

Our inventory is comprised of used heavy- and medium-duty trucks, usually at least five years old, which are purchased at salvage and truck auctions or directly from insurance companies or large fleet operators. During 2012, we purchased approximately8,200vehicles. Depending on the condition of the vehicles, they may be dismantled for parts or resold as running vehicles. If certain mechanical parts are damaged, such as transmissions, we may remanufacture them and offer them to our customers. The vehicles that are acquired for resale are typically special purpose or vocational use trucks such as those used for garbage pickup or cement delivery. If requested by the sellers of the vehicles, we provide an assurance that the vehicles will be sold to foreign buyers and exported to countries for use outside of the U.S., or to domestic buyers after the vehicles have been reconditioned and modified for use other than their original purpose.

Scrap and Other Materials

Our wholesale recycled product operations generate scrap metal and other materials that we sell to recyclers.  Vehicles that have been dismantled for recycled products and "crush only" end of life vehicles acquired from other companies, including OEMs, are typically crushed using equipment on site. In other cases, we will hire mobile crushing equipment to crush the vehicles before they are transported to shredders and scrap metal processors. Damaged and unusable wheel cores are melted in our aluminum furnace and sold to consumers of aluminum ingot and sow for the production of various automotive products, including wheels.  Beginning in 2012 with our acquisition of a precious metals refining and reclamation business, we also extract and sell the precious metals contained in certain of our salvage parts such as catalytic converters.

Customers

We sell our products to wholesale customers that include collision and mechanical repair shops and new and used car dealerships, as well as to retail customers. Customers of our heavy-duty truck products may also include owner/operators, local cartage companies, or exporters.  We also generate a portion of our revenue from scrap sales to metal recyclers.  No single customer accounted for 2% or more of our revenue in 2012.












Repair Shops and Others

We sell the majority of our wholesale products to collision and mechanical repair shops. Industry reports estimate there were approximately 40,000 collision repair shops, including those owned by new car dealerships, in the U.S. in 2011.  The same reports estimate there were approximately 77,000 general (including mechanical) repair garages, excluding new car dealership service departments, in the U.S. in 2011. The majority of these customers tend to be individually-owned small businesses, although the number of independent and dealer-operated collision repair facilities has declined 18% since 2006, as regional or national multiple location operators have increased their geographic presence through acquisitions, primarily in existing markets.  We also sell our products to car rental companies and fleet management groups.

Insurance Companies

Automobile insurance companies wield significant influence on the demand for our products. While insurance companies do not pay for our products directly, they ultimately pay for the repair costs of insured vehicles in excess of any deductible amount. As a result, insurance companies often influence the types of products used in a repair.

Our presence in most major markets in the U.S. and Canada gives us a distinctive ability to benefit the major automobile insurance companies. Insurance companies generally operate at a national or regional level. The use of our products provides a direct benefit to these companies by lowering the cost of repairs, decreasing the time required to return the repaired vehicle to the customer, and providing a replacement product that is of high quality and comparable performance to the part replaced.

We assist insurance companies by providing high quality aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured products to collision repair shops, especially to repair shops that are part of an insurance company's Direct Repair Program ("DRP") network. A repair shop participating in a DRP is referred potential work from the insurance company in exchange for providing assurances to the insurance company of quality, timeliness and cost. Industry reports indicate that over half of claims paid for by the top insurance companies in 2012 were paid through a DRP, compared to just over 40% in 2008.   To meet the needs of the DRPs, professional repairers have been required to become fluent in claims handling. Our Keyless system assists these repairers by indicating the availability of alternative products as replacements for damaged OEM products. This data also helps insurance companies monitor the body shops' compliance with its DRP product guidelines that might, for instance, stipulate the use of the lowest cost products that meet quality specifications. In addition, in some markets insurance companies are able to dispose of low value total loss vehicles directly to us so they can save the transaction fees associated with selling these vehicles through salvage auctions.

Sales and Marketing

In the case of repairs paid for as a result of insurance claims, which industry publications estimate are approximately 85% of all repairs, insurance companies give collision repair shops directives as to what type of replacement products are eligible for reimbursement. Typically insurance carriers have established a hierarchy or decision tree prioritizing the types of products to be used for repairs. As an example, a protocol may require recycled products if available; if recycled products are not available, then refurbished products; and, if recycled or refurbished products are not available, aftermarket products. If none of these alternative product types is available, the shop may then use new OEM replacement products. As a body shop looks for products for a repair, the sourcing of products typically begins with a call to one of our recycled operations or one of our competitors. Our recycled sales personnel are encouraged to capture the sale as a "one-stop shop" and, if recycled products are out of stock, to fill orders from our refurbished or aftermarket product inventory. To support these efforts, we have provided our sales staff with access to both recycled and aftermarket sales systems, and we have developed sales incentive programs that encourage cross selling throughout our wholesale operations.

As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 2,000 full-time sales staff in our North American wholesale operating segment. The full time sales personnel are located at sales desks at our facilities or at one of the regional call centers we operate. We deploy a call routing system that redirects overflow calls to alternative call centers, typically located within the same region. We also operate two other call centers, one to support national accounts, and the other to support insurance adjusters' needs and questions. Our sales personnel are encouraged to initiate outbound calls in addition to the inbound calls they handle. Our sales staff can use customer estimates from our Keyless estimating system to generate sales leads for both aftermarket and recycled products.

We are continually reviewing and revising the pricing of wholesale products. Our pricing specialists consider factors such as recent demand levels, inventory quantity on hand and turnover rates, new OEM product prices and local competitive pricing, with the goal of optimizing revenue. We set list prices and then sell items at a discount to list, with the discount typically based on each customer's purchasing volume. We may adjust prices during the year in response to material price changes of new OEM replacement products.












We believe our commitment to stock inventory in local warehouses, supplemented by the inventory sharing system within our regional trading zones, improves our ability to meet our customers' requirements more frequently than our competitors and gives us a competitive advantage.

Distribution

We have a distribution network of over 320 wholesale plants and warehouses across the U.S. and Canada, of which 52 function as large hub or cross dock facilities. Our network of facilities allows us to develop and maintain our relationships with local repair shops while providing a level of service that is made possible by our nationwide presence. Our local presence allows us to provide daily deliveries as required by our customers, using drivers who routinely deliver to the same customers. Our sales force and local delivery drivers develop and maintain critical personal relationships with the local repair shops that benefit from access to our wide selection of products, which we are able to offer as a result of our regional inventory network.

We have developed an internal distribution network to allow our sales representatives to sell our products within regional trading zones, thus improving our ability to fulfill customer requests and accelerating inventory turnover. Each weekday we operate over 290 transfer runs between our cross dock facilities and our plants and warehouses within our regional trading zones to redistribute our alternative products for delivery on the next day. In addition, we have approximately 2,700 local delivery routes serving our customers each weekday.

Each sale results in the generation of a work order at the location housing the specific product. A dispatcher is then responsible for ensuring fulfillment accuracy, printing the final invoice, and including the product on the appropriate truck route for delivery to the customer. In markets where we offer more than one alternative product type, we have begun to integrate the delivery of multiple product types on the same delivery routes to help minimize distribution costs and improve customer service. We operate a delivery fleet of medium-sized trucks and smaller trucks and vans. Over time, our delivery vehicles will become more consistent as we reconfigure the fleet to include vehicles that can carry all four product types.

Competition

We consider all suppliers of vehicle collision and mechanical products to be competitors, including aftermarket suppliers, recycling businesses, refurbishing operations, parts remanufacturers, OEMs and internet-based suppliers. We believe the principal areas of differentiation in our industry include availability of inventory, pricing, product quality and service.

The aftermarket product distribution business is highly fragmented and our competitors, other than OEMs, are generally independently owned distributors with one to three distribution centers. Similarly, we compete with domestic vehicle product recyclers, most of which are single-unit operators. In some markets, smaller competitors have organized affiliations to share marketing and distribution resources, including internet sites. We compete with alternative parts distributors on the basis of our nationwide distribution system, our product lines and inventory availability, customer service, our relationships with insurance companies, and to a lesser extent, price.  We do not consider retail chains that focus on the do-it-yourself market to be our direct competitors since many of our wholesale product sales are paid for by insurance companies rather than the end user.

Manufacturers of new original equipment products sell the majority of automobile replacement products. We believe, however, that as the insurance and repair industries continue to recognize the advantages of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured products, the alternatives to new OEM replacement products will account for a larger percentage of total vehicle replacement product sales. Since 2008, alternative parts usage has increased from approximately 32% to 37% of the collision replacement product market. We compete with OEMs on the basis of price, service and product quality.

Self Service Retail Products

Our self service retail operations sell parts from older cars and light-duty trucks directly to consumers. In addition to revenue from the sale of parts, core and scrap, we charge a nominal admission fee to access the property. Our self service facilities typically consist of a fenced or enclosed area of several acres with vehicles stored outdoors and a retail building through which customers are able to access the yard.  In 2012, we began rebranding most of our self service locations under the name "LKQ Pick Your Part."  As of December 31, 2012, we conducted our self service operations from 62 facilities in North America.

Inventory

We acquire inventory for our self service retail product operations from a variety of sources, including but not limited to towing companies, auctions, the general public, insurance carriers, municipality sales and charitable organizations. We typically procure salvage vehicles that are more than seven model years old for our self service retail product operations. These vehicles are generally older and of lower quality than the salvage vehicles we purchase for our wholesale recycled product operations.  Beginning in 2011, a reduction in the supply of these vehicles has contributed to increased car costs, which is partially a result of the 2009 "cash for clunkers" program that removed many vehicles from supply earlier in their life cycle.  In 2012, we purchased approximately416,000lower cost self service and "crush only" vehicles.












Vehicles are delivered to our locations by the seller, or we arrange for transportation. Once on our property, minimal labor is required to process the vehicle other than removing the fluids, Freon, catalytic converters and hazardous materials. Vehicles are then placed in the yard for customers to remove parts. The vehicle inventory is usually organized according to domestic and import cars (further organized by make), passenger vans and trucks. In our self service business, availability of a specific part will depend on which vehicles are currently at the site and to what extent parts may have been previously sold.  We usually keep a vehicle at our facility for 30 to 75 days, generally depending on the capacity of the yard, before it is crushed and sold to scrap metal processors. By maintaining a relatively short turnover period, we ensure that our inventory is continually updated with different car options or removed from the yard when the saleable parts are depleted.

Scrap and Other Materials

Our self service auto recycling operations generate scrap metal, alloys and other materials that we sell to recyclers. Vehicles that we no longer make available to the public and "crush only" vehicles acquired from other companies, including OEMs, are typically crushed using equipment on site.  With our acquisition of a scrap metal shredder in Florida in 2012, we will begin shredding certain vehicle hulks ourselves in 2013.  By shredding our hulks rather than selling them to a recycler, we expect to improve the recovery of the scrap metals contained in the vehicle hulks generated by local salvage operations.

Customers

The customers of our self service yards are frequently do-it-yourself mechanics, small independent repair shops servicing older vehicles and auto rebuilders. The scrap from the vehicle hulks, when not processed by us, is sold to recyclers, with whom we may also compete when procuring salvage vehicles for our operations.

Sales and Marketing

We list part prices for automobiles and light-duty trucks on regularly updated price sheets, with prices varying by part type, but not by make or model. For instance, four cylinder engines are priced the same regardless of vehicle make, model, age or condition. While we do not consider retail automotive chains to be our direct competitors, as their product offerings are focused on maintenance products and mechanical parts, we may reference their prices on certain parts as a benchmark to ensure our prices remain competitive.

Competition

There are competitors operating self service businesses in all of the markets in which we operate. In some markets, there are numerous competitors, often operating in close proximity to our operations. We try to differentiate our business by the quality of the inventory and the size and cleanliness of the property.

EUROPE SEGMENT

Wholesale Auto Products

Our European wholesale operating segment was formed in the fourth quarter of 2011 with our acquisition of ECP.  We continued to expand our branch network in 2012 by opening 41 new locations in the U.K., including an extension to the national distribution center.  This extension houses additional product lines, including certain collision repair products such as body panels and bumpers, some of which are marketed under the Platinum Plus brand we use in North America.   As of December 31, 2012, we operated 130 branch locations supported by a national distribution center and nine regional hubs, which allows us to reach most major markets within the U.K. With its national distribution system and IT infrastructure, we believe ECP will serve as a platform to expand into complementary products to increase market penetration in this region, as well as to further develop a collision repair parts business similar to our North American wholesale operations.

Inventory

In 2012, we sold more than 112,000 SKUs of aftermarket products, primarily composed of mechanical aftermarket parts for the repair of vehicles three to 15 years old. Our top selling products include electrical products such as spark plugs and ignition coils, brake pads and sensors, steering and suspension parts and clutches and related parts. In 2012, our top 10 suppliers represented 32% of our inventory purchases, with our top supplier representing approximately 7% of our purchases. No suppliers outside of our top ten suppliers provided more than 3% of our annual purchases. The aftermarket products we distribute are purchased from vendors located primarily in the U.K. and other European countries. In 2012, we purchased 62% of our aftermarket products from companies in the U.K. and 23% of our products from other European countries.  Most of the products we purchase in the U.K. are sourced from businesses headquartered in other European countries.  Approximately 15% of our products were procured directly from vendors located primarily in China or Taiwan, some of which also supply collision parts for our Wholesale - North America operations.












We provide value to our customers by offering aftermarket products that, in many cases, are sourced from the same suppliers used by OEMs. By working directly with the manufacturers, we are able to eliminate intermediate steps in the parts supply chain to offer the same products for a lower price compared to OEMs. For many of our products, we also offer lower-cost lines for our customers that are more cost conscious.

Customers

We sell the majority of our products to over 38,000 professional repairers, including independent mechanical repair shops and collision repair shops. In addition to our sales to repair shops, we generate a portion of our revenue through sales to retail customers from our branch stores, which have historically represented less than 20% of our revenue. No single customer accounted for more than 2% of our revenue in 2012.

Sales and Marketing

To place an order, our customers will generally call a sales representative at the nearest branch.  Using an electronic automotive exchange and our integrated IT platform displaying inventory availability, our sales representatives can locate for our customers the appropriate replacement part. We set list prices for our products, and then apply a discount off of list, primarily depending on each customer's purchasing volume. In 2012, we launched a business-to-business website with certain of our customers to enable them to place product orders online through a customized interface that includes detailed parts specifications, customer-specific pricing, local branch availability and account information.  We believe this customer interface will result in fewer parts returns by improving order accuracy and will also reduce the time required by parts specialists to advise customers.  Whether placed via a phone order or online, customer orders are filled from the local branch or routed to another location as necessary to fill the order.

Similar to our North American wholesale operations, insurance companies significantly influence the purchasing decisions for collision products in the U.K. We believe the historically low alternative collision parts usage percentage, which is currently less than 10%, provides an opportunity for us in this market, particularly as insurance companies look to lower their costs. As a result, we are attempting to establish business relationships with insurance companies and implement insurer-based marketing models to bring visibility to the cost savings that can be achieved through the use of alternative parts. As we continue to grow our collision parts offerings over time in this market, we believe we will be well-positioned to serve as a lower-cost alternative for insured repairs in the U.K.

Distribution

We employ a central stock replenishment system supported by our integrated IT platform to monitor historical demand, lost sales, and orders. Using this information, we are better able to appropriately stock our branches to meet customer requests. In addition to stocking our branches based on local inventory demand, beginning in 2012 all branch locations carry approximately 3,500 of the top selling SKUs to meet the demand of our national customers.  Our typical branch location holds between 10% and 20% of our available SKUs, with nightly replenishment from our national distribution center and other distribution hubs. All of our branches can deliver certain in-stock parts within one hour.   In the event that a branch does not have a requested part, the part is supplied by either a hub or the national distribution center within 24 hours. We deliver parts to our customers on our vans or third party motorcycles with 41,000 daily deliveries, or otherwise by third party carriers.

Competition

We view all suppliers of replacement repair products as our competitors, including other alternative parts suppliers and OEMs and their dealer networks. While we compete with all alternative parts suppliers, there are few with a distribution network reaching most major markets in the U.K. We believe we have been able to distinguish ourselves from other alternative parts suppliers primarily through our distribution network, which allows us to deliver our products quickly, as well as through our product lines and inventory availability, pricing and service. We compete with OEMs primarily on the basis of price, service and availability.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 20,300 employees. We are a party to a collective bargaining agreement with a union that represents 44 employees at our Totowa, New Jersey facility. Approximately 660 of our employees at our bumper refurbishing and engine remanufacturing operations in Mexico and 160 of our employees at our recycled parts facility in Quebec City, Canada are also represented by unions. Other than these locations, none of our employees is a member of a union or participates in other collective bargaining arrangements. We consider our employee relations to be good.

FACILITIES

Our corporate headquarters are located at 500 West Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois 60661. We also operate a field support center in Nashville, Tennessee that performs certain corporate functions, including accounting, procurement and












information systems support.  Our European operations maintain procurement, accounting and finance functions in Wembley, outside of London, England. In addition to these corporate offices, we have numerous operating facilities that handle wholesale and self service retail product operations. We operate out of more than500locations in total, most of which are leased. Many of our locations stock multiple product types or serve more than one function.

Included in our total locations are 131 facilities in the U.K., including the 500,000 square foot national distribution center in Tamworth that houses inventory to supply the hubs and branches of our U.K. operations.  We also operate 37 facilities in Canada, five facilities in Central America, and two facilities in Mexico.  In 2012, we opened an aftermarket parts warehouse in Taiwan to aggregate inventory for shipment to our locations in North America.

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

In our North American operations, our aftermarket operations use a third party facility management system. Additional third party software packages have been implemented to leverage the centralized data and information that a single system provides, such as a data warehouse to conduct enhanced analytics and reporting, an integrated budgeting system, an electronic data interchange tool, and eCommerce tools to enhance our online business-to-business initiatives—OrderKeystone.com and Keyless.  The systems used by our aftermarket operations are also used by all of our refurbishing operations.

Our wholesale recycled product locations in North America operate an internally-developed, proprietary facility management system called LKQX.  We believe that the use of a single system across all of our wholesale recycled product operations helps facilitate the sales process, allows for continued implementation of standard operating procedures, and yields improved training efficiency, employee transferability, access to our national inventory database, management reporting and data storage. The system also supports an electronic exchange process for identifying and locating parts at other select recyclers and facilitates brokered sales to fill customer orders for items not in stock.

Our remanufacturing operations currently operate on three separate IT systems, which we expect to transition to a single IT platform in the next year.  We operate a single enterprise system for all of our heavy-duty truck operations that supports inter-region sales to reduce the potential for lost sales due to out-of-stock parts. In 2011, we completed the installation of a standardized point of sale system in our self service retail operations, which allows enhanced management reporting as well as improved system reliability.

Our aftermarket operations in the U.K. use a single integrated IT platform for our purchasing, branch stock, and finance activities, which are further supported by a distribution center system to manage inventory movement.

The hardware that supports the systems used in our operations is located in offsite data centers. The centers are in secure environments with around-the-clock monitoring, redundant power backup, and multiple, diverse data and telecommunication routing.  We use separate third party provided software for our financial systems such as financial and budget reporting, general ledger accounting, accounts payable, payroll, and fixed assets. We currently protect our local customer, inventory, and corporate consolidated data, such as financial information, e-mail files, and other user files, with daily backups. These backups are stored off site with a third party data protection vendor.

We continually evaluate our systems with the goal of ensuring that all critical systems remain scalable and operational as our business grows.

REGULATION

Environmental Compliance

Our operations and properties, including the maintenance of our delivery vehicles, are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations. These environmental laws govern, among other things, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials.

We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures relating to environmental matters. We have an environmental management process designed to facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements. We cannot assure you, however, that we will at all times be in complete compliance with such requirements.

Although we presently do not expect to incur any capital or other expenditures relating to environmental controls or other environmental matters in amounts that would be material to us, we may be required to make such expenditures in the future. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Accordingly, environmental laws may change or become more stringent in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business.












Contamination resulting from vehicle recycling processes can include soil and ground water contamination from the release, storage, transportation, or disposal of gasoline, motor oil, antifreeze, transmission fluid, chlorofluorocarbons ("CFCs") from air conditioners, other hazardous materials, or metals such as aluminum, cadmium, chromium, lead, and mercury. Contamination from the refurbishment of chrome plated bumpers can occur from the release of the plating material. Contamination can migrate on-site or off-site which can increase the risk, and the amount, of any potential liability.

In addition, many of our facilities are located on or near properties with a history of industrial use that may have involved hazardous materials. As a result, some of our properties may be contaminated. Some environmental laws hold current or previous owners or operators of real property liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination, even if these owners or operators did not know of and were not responsible for such contamination. These environmental laws also impose liability on any person who disposes of, treats, or arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by such person, and at times can impose liability on companies deemed under law to be a successor to such person. Third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties, or successors to such owners or operators, for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances.

When we identify a potential material environmental issue during our acquisition due diligence process, we analyze the risks, and, when appropriate, perform further environmental assessment to verify and quantify the extent of the potential contamination. Furthermore, where appropriate, we have established financial reserves for certain environmental matters. In addition, at times we, or sellers from whom we purchased a business, have undertaken remediation projects. We do not anticipate, based on currently available information and current laws, that we will incur liabilities in excess of reserves to address environmental matters. However, in the event we discover new information or if laws change, we may incur significant liabilities, which may exceed our reserves.

Title Laws

In some states, when a vehicle is deemed a total loss, a salvage title is issued. Whether states issue salvage titles is important to the supply of inventory for the vehicle recycling industry because an increase in vehicles that qualify as salvage vehicles provides greater availability and typically lowers the price of such vehicles. Currently, these titling issues are a matter of state law. In 1992, the U.S. Congress commissioned an advisory committee to study problems relating to vehicle titling, registration, and salvage. Since then, legislation has been introduced seeking to establish national uniform requirements in this area, including a uniform definition of a salvage vehicle. The vehicle recycling industry will generally favor a uniform definition, since it will avoid inconsistencies across state lines, and will generally favor a definition that expands the number of damaged vehicles that qualify as salvage. However, certain interest groups, including repair shops and some insurance associations, may oppose this type of legislation. National legislation has not yet been enacted in this area, and there can be no assurance that such legislation will be enacted in the future.

Anti-Car Theft Act

In 1992, Congress enacted the Anti-Car Theft Act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. The purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. In January 2009, the U.S. Department of Justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. The portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any "covered major part." The Department of Justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. However, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on vehicle recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. It would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may further discourage the use by such shops of recycled products. There is no pending initiative to implement the parts registration from a law enforcement point of view. However, there is a risk that a heightened legislative concern over safety of parts might precipitate an effort to push for the implementation of such rules.

Legislation Affecting Automotive Repair Parts

Most states have laws relating to the use of aftermarket products in motor vehicle collision repair work. The provisions of these laws include consumer disclosure, vehicle owner's consent regarding the use of aftermarket products in the repair process, and the requirement to have aftermarket products certified by an independent testing organization. Some jurisdictions have laws that regulate the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. Additional laws of this kind may be enacted in the future. An increase in the number of states passing such legislation with prohibitions or restrictions that are more severe than current laws could have a material adverse impact on our business. Additionally, Congress could enact federal legislation restricting the use of aftermarket and recycled automotive products used in the course of collision repair.












SEASONALITY

Our operating results are subject to quarterly variations based on a variety of factors, influenced primarily by seasonal changes in weather patterns. During the winter months, we tend to have higher demand for our collision products because there are more weather related accidents, which generate repairs. In addition, the cost of salvage vehicles may be lower as weather related accidents generate a larger supply of total loss vehicles.





