ITEM 1.BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

LKQ Corporation (“LKQ” or the “Company”) provides replacement parts, components and systems needed to repair vehicles
(cars and trucks). Buyers of vehicle replacement products have the option to purchase from primarily five sources: new products produced by original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), which are commonly known as OEM products; new products
produced by companies other than the OEMs, which are sometimes referred to as “aftermarket” products; recycled products originally produced by OEMs, which we refer to as recycled products; used products that have been refurbished; and used
products that have been remanufactured.

We distribute a variety of products to collision repair shops and mechanical repair
shops, including aftermarket collision products, recycled collision and mechanical products, refurbished collision replacement products, such as wheels, bumpers and lights, and remanufactured products, such as engines and transmissions. We are the
nation’s largest provider of aftermarket and recycled products and related services, with sales, processing, and distribution facilities that reach most major markets in the U.S. and Canada. We are also the largest nationwide provider of
refurbished bumper covers and wheels. In addition to these full service, wholesale operations, we operate self service facilities that sell retail recycled automotive products. We also sell recycled heavy-duty truck products and used heavy-duty
trucks. Our business has three operating divisions—wholesale aftermarket and recycled products, self service retail products and heavy-duty truck products.

We obtain the majority of our aftermarket inventory from auto parts manufacturers and distributors based in the U.S. and Taiwan. We procure recycled auto products mainly by purchasing salvage vehicles,
typically severely damaged by collisions and primarily sold at salvage auctions or pools, and then dismantling and inventorying the parts. The refurbished and remanufactured products that we sell, including wheels, bumpers, bumper covers, head and
tail lamps and engines, originate from parts from the salvage vehicles bought at auctions, parts received in trade at collision shops purchasing replacement products from us and damaged parts bought through bulk purchases from core sales companies
that collect damaged parts.

The majority of our products and services are sold to collision repair shops, also known as body
shops, and mechanical repair shops. We indirectly rely on insurance companies, which ultimately pay for the majority of collision repairs of insured vehicles, to help drive demand. Insurance companies tend to exert significant influence in the
vehicle repair decision. Because of their importance to the process, we have formed business relationships with certain insurance companies in which we are designated a preferred products supplier.

We provide customers with a value proposition that includes high quality products at lower cost than new OEM products, extensive product
availability due to our regional inventory trading zones, and responsive service and quick delivery. Repair shops and insurance companies benefit because the lower costs for our products







enable many vehicles to be repaired rather than declared total losses. The breadth of our product offerings—aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured products—allows us to
serve as a “one-stop” solution for our customers looking for the most cost effective way to provide quality repairs.

We strive to be environmentally responsible. Our recycled automotive products provide an alternative to the manufacture of new products,
which would require the expenditure of significantly more resources and energy and would generate a substantial amount of additional pollution. In addition, we save landfill space because the parts that we recycle would otherwise be discarded. We
also collect materials, such as fuel and motor oil, from the salvage vehicles that we procure, and use them in our operations or sell them to other users.

HISTORY

Since our formation in 1998, we have grown through internal
development and over 100 acquisitions. Today, LKQ is the only supplier of aftermarket and recycled automobile products for the collision and mechanical repair industry with a national network and presence.

Initially formed through the combination of a number of wholesale recycled products businesses located in Florida, Michigan, Ohio and
Wisconsin, LKQ grew to be a leading source for recycled auto collision and mechanical products. We subsequently expanded our product offerings through acquisitions of aftermarket and recycled products suppliers, refurbished and remanufactured
products manufacturers and suppliers, self service retail operations and heavy-duty truck recycled products suppliers. The most significant increase to our business was through the acquisition of Keystone Automotive Industries, Inc. in October 2007,
which, at the time of acquisition, was the leading domestic distributor of aftermarket products, including collision replacement products, paint products, refurbished steel bumpers, plastic bumper covers and alloy wheels.

In 2010, we made 20 acquisitions (16 in the wholesale products business, one in the recycled heavy-duty truck products business, two self
service retail operations and one tire recycling business). Our acquisitions included the purchase of an engine remanufacturer, which allowed us to further vertically integrate our supply chain. We expanded our product offerings through the
acquisition of an automotive heating and cooling component business, as well as a tire recycling business. Our 2010 acquisitions have also enabled us to expand our geographic presence, most notably in Canada through our purchase of Cross Canada, an
aftermarket product supplier.

In January and February 2011, we acquired four businesses: an engine remanufacturer, an
automotive heating and cooling component distributor, a wholesale recycled products business and a recycled heavy-duty truck business. These acquisitions will enable us to expand our market presence and enter new markets. Additionally, with our
purchase of the engine remanufacturer, we will continue to build on our presence in the remanufacturing industry, while our acquisition of the automotive heating and cooling component distributor supplements our expansion into the heating and
cooling aftermarket products market.

STRATEGY

We are focused on creating economic value for our stockholders by enhancing our position as a leading source for alternative collision and mechanical repair products, and by expanding into other product
lines and businesses that may benefit from our operating strengths, such as recycled heavy-duty truck products and the engine remanufacturing business. We believe a supply network with a broad inventory of quality alternative collision and
mechanical repair products, high fulfillment rates and superior customer service will provide us with a competitive advantage. Other than OEMs, the competition in the markets which we serve is extremely fragmented and the supply of products tends to
be localized, often leading to low fulfillment rates, particularly with recycled products. The aftermarket and recycled distribution channels have historically been distinct and separate despite serving the same customer segment. We have brought
these two channels together to provide our customers with a broader product offering. To execute our strategy, we are expanding our network of dismantling







plants and warehouses in major metropolitan areas and employing a distribution system that allows for order fulfillment from regional warehouses located across the U.S. and Canada. By continuing
to grow our recycled product inventory, complemented by a broad supply of aftermarket products, and efficiently moving the inventory within our network, we have increased fulfillment rates beyond the levels that we believe most of our competitors
realize, particularly for recycled products.

Sources of high quality, reliable alternatives to OEM products are important to
insurance companies and to our direct customers as they seek to control repair costs. Lower parts costs and quicker completion of orders saves money and reduces cycle times. We believe this strategy is applicable to both the automobile and
heavy-duty truck markets. In order to execute this strategy and build on our progress thus far, we will continue to seek to expand into new markets and to improve penetration both organically and through acquisitions in targeted markets.

National network in place

LKQ has invested significant capital to develop a national network of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured product facilities. The difficulty and time required to obtain proper zoning, as
well as dismantling and other environmental permits necessary to operate newly-sited recycled product facilities, would make establishing a new network of locations a challenge for a competitor. In addition, there are difficulties associated with
recruiting and hiring an experienced management team that has strong industry knowledge.

We believe there are growth
opportunities in new primary and secondary markets in the U.S. and Canada. We intend to expand our market coverage through a combination of internal development and acquisitions in new regions and adjacent markets. Our national network allows us to
initially enter new, adjacent markets by establishing local redistribution facilities, avoiding the need for significant upfront capital outlays to establish local dismantling capabilities and inventories.

Strong business relationships

We have developed business relationships with automobile insurance companies, collision and mechanical repair shops, suppliers and other industry participants. We believe that insurance companies, as
payers for many repairs, are increasingly taking more active roles in the selection of alternative replacement products for vehicle repairs in order to contain the repair portion of the claims costs. On behalf of certain insurance companies, we
provide a review of vehicle repair estimates so they may assess the opportunity to increase usage of alternative products in the repair process, thereby reducing their costs. Our employees also provide quotes for our products to assist several
insurance companies with their estimate and settlement processes. We also work with insurance companies and vehicle manufacturers to procure salvage vehicles directly from them on a selected basis, which provides us with an additional source of
supply and offers lower transaction costs to sellers of low value salvage vehicles. We believe we are positioned to take advantage of the increasing importance these industry participants have in the repair process and will continue to look for ways
to enhance our relationships with them.

We provide quality assurance programs that offer additional product support to auto
insurance companies. These product support programs identify specific subsets of aftermarket products by vendor and product type that can be used in the repair of vehicles that these companies insure. The programs typically offer aftermarket
products that have been produced by manufacturers certified by a third party testing lab. We may provide additional validation of the quality of the products beyond our standard warranties, and identification details that make the products traceable
back to a manufacturer’s specific production run.

To strengthen our relationship with collision shops, we have developed
“Keyless,” a program that enables collision repair shops to link their estimating systems with our aftermarket and recycled inventory. It is compatible with all of the major estimating systems and provides real-time inventory availability.
The system encourages the use of alternative products by indicating to the collision shop the availability of applicable alternative products at the time of the estimate. It also provides demand information to our purchasing department and offers
sales leads for our sales representatives.







Technology driven business processes

We focus on technology development as a way to support our competitive advantage. We believe that we can more cost effectively leverage
our data to make better business decisions than our smaller competitors. We continue to develop our technology to better manage and analyze our inventory, assist our salespeople with up-to-date pricing and availability of our products, and further
enhance our inventory procurement process. For example, our representatives responsible for procuring vehicles are equipped with handheld computing devices that compare the vehicles at the salvage auctions to our current inventory, historical
demand, and recent average prices to arrive at an estimated maximum bid. This bidding system reduces the likelihood of purchasing unneeded parts that might result in obsolete inventory.

We deploy inventory management systems at our facilities that are similar to those used by leading distribution
companies. We make extensive use of bar code technology and wireless data transmission to track parts from the time a vehicle or product arrives at a facility to its placement on a route truck for delivery to the customer. All of our aftermarket
locations run on a standard operating platform. In the third quarter of 2010, we completed a rollout of LKQXat our domestic locations, a proprietary software system that simplifies the sales process of both recycled and aftermarket products for our sales representatives. In addition, we are implementing a new
point-of-sale system for our self-service operations that improves the reliability of our self service operations. Both
LKQXand our self-service point-of-sale system provide
enhanced data for management reporting and analysis. In 2010, we also completed the implementation of an enterprise system for our heavy-duty truck operations. This system provides visibility across our plants, allowing for improved sales by
reducing lost sales due to stock-outs.

Demand driven procurement

We believe efficient procurement of aftermarket products and salvage vehicles is critical to the growth of the operating results and cash
flow of our business. We use information systems and proprietary methodologies to help us identify high demand aftermarket and recycled products. Our aftermarket inventory system tracks products sold and sales lost due to a lack of inventory, and
makes purchase recommendations. The inventory system also recommends purchases and transfers based on the extent and location of demand. Our buying team reviews the recommendations and places orders accordingly. When we procure aftermarket products
or refurbish wheels, bumpers and lights, we focus on products that are in the most demand by the insured repair market. Our most popular aftermarket products are head lamps, tail lamps, grilles, hoods, mirrors, bumpers, bumper covers, and fenders.
Because lead times may take 45 days or more on imported products, sales volume and in-stock inventory are important factors in the procurement process.

Our information systems prioritize and recommend bid prices of the salvage vehicles we evaluate for purchase. Our processes and systems help to identify with a high degree of accuracy the value of the
parts that can be recycled on a salvage vehicle and recommend a maximum purchase price to achieve our target margins from the resale of the recycled products. We also use historical sales records of vehicles by model and year to estimate the demand
for our products. Combining this information with proprietary data that aggregate customer requests for products, we are able to source aftermarket products and salvage vehicles at prices that we believe will allow us to sell products profitably.

High fulfillment rates

We have increased local inventory levels and found that it has improved our customer service and allowed for faster deliveries. For both our aftermarket and recycled products operations, improving local
order fulfillment rates reduces transfer costs and delivery times, and improves customer satisfaction. Our ability to share inventory on a regional basis increases the availability of replacement products and also helps us to fill a higher
percentage of our customers’ requests. We have developed regional trading zones within which we make our inventory available to our local facilities, mostly via overnight product transfers. We manage our purchasing and recycled product
inventory on a regional basis to enhance the availability of the products that we believe will be in the highest demand within each region. We believe that our higher than industry average fulfillment rates distinguish us from our competition.







Broad product offering

One call away

To execute our strategy of offering a broad inventory with high fulfillment rates, we offer our customers the choice of aftermarket or recycled products. For many parts, we also offer refurbished or
remanufactured product options. If, for example, a customer has a damaged bumper, we may offer that customer the choice of a recycled bumper, a new aftermarket bumper, or a refurbished bumper. Because recycled products are in limited supply, our
ability to offer additional alternative product options increases our fulfillment rates and customer satisfaction. Historically there have been separate supply channels in the industry for recycled and aftermarket products; however, we are combining
the channels through the sharing of warehousing, inventory, sales and distribution systems so that our repair shop customers need only one source of supply for their alternative repair products.

WHOLESALE AUTO PRODUCTS

Our wholesale automobile product operations are comprised of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured product operations. We
are organized by geographic regions serving the U.S. and Canada that sell all four product types to collision and mechanical automobile repair businesses.

Our aftermarket products business is conducted from facilities that may include sales, warehousing and distribution centers. As of December 31, 2010, we conducted our aftermarket product distribution
from 166 facilities in the U.S. and Canada.

We process salvage vehicles and warehouse recycled products at facilities
throughout the U.S. and Canada. A typical facility has processing, sales, distribution and administrative operations on site, indoor and outdoor storage areas, and includes a large warehouse with multiple bays to dismantle vehicles. We also have
facilities that operate primarily as redistribution centers. As of December 31, 2010, we conducted our wholesale recycled product operations from 97 facilities, 80 of which included a combination of processing, sales and redistribution
operations, and 17 of which were primarily redistribution facilities.

We refurbish bumpers and wheels at 53 locations in the
U.S. and Canada and one location in northeast Mexico. We refurbish head lamps and tail lamps primarily at a facility in Michigan. In 2010, we purchased an engine remanufacturing business in Missouri. Our 2011 acquisitions included an engine
remanufacturer with locations in the U.S. and Mexico. Our refurbished and remanufactured products are primarily distributed through our wholesale aftermarket and recycled product facilities.







Wholesale Aftermarket Products

We distribute more than 75,000 SKUs of aftermarket collision products and repair materials for the most common models of domestic and
foreign automobiles and light trucks, generally for the ten most recent model years. Our principal aftermarket product types consist of those most frequently damaged in collisions, including: automotive body panels, bumpers, grilles and lights. We
also sell cooling products, paint and other materials used by collision repair shops. The sources for our aftermarket products are both foreign and domestic manufacturers and distributors.

Aftermarket products provide the collision repair industry with quality products at prices well below new OEM replacement products. Lower
costs may help insurers contain collision repair costs, and often mean that cars are considered repairable rather than categorized as total losses.

We distribute paint and other materials used in repairing damaged vehicles, including sandpaper, abrasives, masking products and plastic filler. The paint and other materials distributed by us are
purchased from numerous domestic suppliers. Certain of these products are distributed under the brand “Keystone.”

Platinum Plus is our exclusive brand offered in the Keystone product line of aftermarket products. It offers high quality products at
lower costs than new OEM replacement products. The Platinum Plus products are held to high quality standards and tested by quality teams. We provide a warranty for as long as a consumer owns the vehicle on which the product was installed. Many of
our Platinum Plus products are used for repairs that are ultimately paid for by insurance companies and are part of our quality assurance programs.

CAPA and NSF are associations that evaluate the functional equivalence of aftermarket collision replacement products to OEM collision replacement products. Members of CAPA and NSF include insurance
companies, product distributors (including LKQ), collision repair shops and consumers.

CAPA and NSF develop engineering
specifications for aftermarket collision replacement products based upon examinations of OEM products; certify the factories, manufacturing processes and quality control procedures used by independent manufacturers; and certify the materials, fit
and finish of specific aftermarket collision replacement products. Many major insurance companies have adopted policies recommending or requiring the use of products certified by CAPA or NSF when available. A number of CAPA and NSF certified
products are also marketed under the Platinum Plus brand.

We distribute parts certified by CAPA and NSF and actively
participate with CAPA, NSF, insurance companies and consumer groups in encouraging independent manufacturers of collision replacement products to seek certifications from these organizations.

We have developed a product line called “Value Line” for more value conscious, often self-pay, consumers. Our Value Line
products offer quality products at reasonable prices, providing additional choices for repairs or rebuilding of vehicles. The Value Line product line is available for most product categories.

Procurement of Inventory

The aftermarket products we distribute are
purchased from independent manufacturers located primarily in Taiwan and the U.S. In 2010, we purchased 12% of the aftermarket products we sell from each of two manufacturers. No other suppliers provided more than 7% of our supply of aftermarket
products. We believe we are one of the largest customers of each of the ten largest suppliers. We purchased approximately 48% of our aftermarket products directly from manufacturers in Taiwan and other Asian countries. Approximately 52% of our
aftermarket products were purchased from locations in the U.S. However, the majority of these products were manufactured in Taiwan and other Asian countries.

We benefit from an automated procurement system that makes order and inventory transfer recommendations using product sales and data for lost sales due to stockouts. Buyers review the system’s







recommendations and then place purchase orders or arrange for a redistribution of inventory to areas of higher demand. For new products, we use vehicle volume and registrations by state to
influence what new products should be ordered and where the stock should be located. Typically six months after the products are introduced, the automated system has sufficient data to make order recommendations.

We have business arrangements with manufacturers to produce our Platinum Plus products. These agreements automatically renew for
additional 12 month periods unless written notice is given. While we compete with other distributors for production capacity, we believe that our sources of supply and our relationships with our suppliers are satisfactory.

For orders from domestic suppliers, we usually receive orders within ten days. Orders placed with foreign manufacturers generally are
received within 45 to 60 days.

Foreign orders typically are shipped in sea containers directly to 84 of our 166 aftermarket
locations. We have 27 regional hubs and one master warehouse located in Michigan. The hub warehouses act as sources for our other non-container, direct aftermarket warehouse locations, and serve as the central stocking point of all slower moving
items, which allows all branches to have a high fill-rate of next day availability. This structure enables us to provide higher fulfillment rates.

Wholesale Recycled Products

Wholesale recycled collision and
mechanical products provide high quality, lower-price repair options. Our most popular recycled products include engines, transmissions, doors, front end assemblies, trunk lids, bumper assemblies, head and tail lamp assemblies and mirrors. Some
insurance companies mandate that the recycled products must be of the same model year or newer as the vehicle being repaired. As a result, the products we sell are typically from vehicles not more than ten years of age. We have adopted the
industry’s grading system based on the condition of the product, and factor product grades into our pricing decisions. Unlike aftermarket products that are individually boxed, recycled products are most frequently sold as subassemblies or as
multiple parts already put together. Installing recycled products often means that collision shops not only save on product cost, but, because several products may come pre-assembled, are able to reduce labor costs.

Procurement of Inventory

In 2009, nearly 11 million of the more than 255 million vehicles registered in the U.S. became end of life vehicles
(“ELV”) and were retired from use for reasons including age, damage, malfunction or abandonment. We procure recycled products for our wholesale operations by acquiring severely damaged or totaled vehicles. Vehicles that have been declared
“total losses” typically are sold at regional salvage auctions held throughout the country. Salvage auctions charge fees both to the suppliers of vehicles, primarily insurance companies, and to the purchasers, such as LKQ. Additionally, we
pay third parties fees to tow the vehicles from the auction to our facilities.

Over the past few years, the frequency with
which vehicles are declared total losses has increased as a result¸ we believe, of the rise in repair costs relative to used car values. As OEMs offer models that have increasingly complex safety measures such as multiple airbags and vehicle
operating sensors, the cost to repair such vehicles has risen. In 2010, high used car values may have reduced the effect of this trend slightly.

In 2010, LKQ acquired approximately 198,000 salvage vehicles for our wholesale recycled product operations with approximately 97% purchased at salvage auctions. Our salvage buyers typically visit the
auction sites or review the auctions online in advance of scheduled auction dates to investigate the vehicles to be sold and determine our interest in buying them. They obtain key information such as the model and mileage, and perform visual damage
assessments to determine which parts on the targeted vehicles are recyclable. With the data from this preview, we deploy a bidding system that performs a valuation calculation for each vehicle. The calculation







incorporates demand for a vehicle’s recyclable parts, current inventory levels, average selling prices, auction costs, projected margins and instances of out-of-stock, and recommends a
maximum bid price. Bids are then placed on those vehicles that contain desirable parts. The system provides a disciplined supply and demand procurement approach that focuses on vehicles for which there is greatest demand.

We acquired approximately 3% of the salvage vehicles we purchased for wholesale parts in 2010 directly from insurance companies, vehicle
manufacturers, and other direct sellers. These arrangements eliminate the fees charged to the buyers and sellers by the salvage auction, often providing inventory with a lower initial expenditure of capital. Direct purchase agreements, while usually
beneficial, have limited applicability to our procurement because of the volume of vehicles we buy. Purchasing vehicles at auction provides us with the flexibility to focus on sought after vehicles based on our bidding algorithms.

Vehicle Processing

Vehicle processing for our wholesale recycled operations involves dismantling a salvage vehicle into recycled products that are ready for
sale. When a salvage vehicle arrives at one of our facilities, an inventory specialist identifies, catalogs, and schedules the vehicle for dismantling. Prior to dismantling, we remove from each vehicle its fluids, Freon, and parts containing
hazardous substances and precious metals such as catalytic converters. The extracted fluids are stored in bulk and subsequently sold to recyclers. In the case of gasoline, the fuel retrieved is primarily used to power our delivery vehicles. A small
portion of the recycled motor oil we collect is used at certain of our plants that have high-efficiency oil burning furnaces; the balance is sold to motor oil recyclers.

When ready for dismantling, each vehicle will have an inventory report that indicates to the dismantler which parts should be removed and placed in a warehouse for future sales to customers, which parts
should be collected in bulk for sale to parts remanufacturers, and which parts have value but for now should remain on the vehicle.

Products that are placed directly on our shelves are typically higher sales volume items such as engines, transmissions, doors, hoods, trunk lids, head and tail lamp assemblies, and front and rear
bumpers. Many of the recycled products we sell are subassemblies of multiple parts including quarter panels and front end assemblies. The subassemblies are cut from the vehicle bodies, usually using specific parameters provided by the repair shop at
the time of sale.

Parts that are not in a condition to be sold as recycled products or that are in surplus supply are
separated and sold in bulk to parts remanufacturers, or otherwise refurbished or remanufactured internally. Bumpers and lighting items are sent to our refurbishing facilities, while wheels may be sent either to our refurbishing facilities or our
smelter operations. With our acquisition of an engine remanufacturer in 2010, we also remanufacture high-demand engines.

If
there is strong demand for products that are currently at high stock levels in our warehouses, we may choose to hold the vehicle for further dismantling at some future date when we are more likely to have a need for the parts. The holding period for
partially dismantled car bodies will depend on the rack space available at the site. Once all of the parts of value have been removed, the remaining vehicle frame is crushed and sold to scrap processors.

Prior to placement on our warehouse shelves, each inventory item is given a unique bar code tag for identification and entered into our
inventory tracking system. We utilize bar coding systems and wireless transmission to keep track of inventory from the time a product is removed and inventoried, to the time it is sold and put on a truck for delivery.







Refurbished and Remanufactured Products

As of December 31, 2010, we operated 41 plastic bumper and bumper cover refurbishing plants, two chrome bumper plating plants, 12
wheel plants, one light refurbishing plant and one engine remanufacturing operation. Most of our refurbished and remanufactured products are sold through our wholesale aftermarket and recycled distribution channels. The balance is sold to retail
automotive stores, wholesale distributors and via internet sales.

The majority of our refurbished and remanufactured products
are processed from cores obtained from salvage vehicles purchased by our recycled operations, damaged cores collected by our route delivery drivers from vehicles under repair by our customers, and from core brokers. Our sales capacity for these
products is limited by the availability of cores to refurbish. In addition to the engines we remanufacture in-house, we sell some remanufactured or refurbished mechanical products, such as engines and transmissions acquired from other mechanical
remanufacturers.

Scrap and Other Materials

Our wholesale recycled product operations generate scrap metal and other materials that we sell to recyclers. Vehicles that have been dismantled for recycled products and “crush only” ELVs
acquired from other companies, including OEMs, are typically crushed using equipment on site. In other cases, we will hire mobile crushing equipment to crush the vehicles before they are transported to shredders and scrap metal processors. Damaged
and unusable wheel cores are melted by our aluminum smelter operations and sold to consumers of aluminum ingot and sow for the production of various automotive products, including wheels.

Customers

We sell our products to wholesale customers that include
collision and mechanical repair shops and new and used car dealerships. We also generate a portion of our revenue from scrap sales to metal recyclers. No single customer accounted for 2% or more of our revenue in 2010.

Repair Shops and Others

We sell the majority of our wholesale products to collision and mechanical repair shops. Industry reports estimate there were
approximately 44,200 collision repair shops, including those owned by new car dealerships, in the U.S. in 2008. The same reports estimate there were approximately 76,700 general (including mechanical) repair garages, but excluding new car dealership
service departments, in the U.S. in 2008. The majority of these customers tend to be individually-owned small businesses, although there has been a trend toward consolidation, resulting in the formation of several national and regional repair
companies. We also sell our products to automobile dealerships, car rental companies and fleet management groups.

Insurance Companies

Automobile insurance companies wield significant influence on the demand for our products. While insurance companies do
not pay for our products directly, they ultimately pay for the repair costs of insured vehicles in excess of any deductible amount. As a result, insurance companies often influence the types of products used in a repair.

Our nationwide presence gives us a distinctive ability to service the major automobile insurance companies. Insurance companies generally
operate at a national or regional level. The use of our products provides a direct benefit to these companies by lowering the cost of repairs, decreasing the time required to return the repaired vehicle to the customer, and providing a replacement
product that is of high quality and comparable performance to the part replaced.







We assist insurance companies by providing high quality aftermarket, recycled, refurbished
and remanufactured products to collision repair shops, especially to repair shops that are part of an insurance company’s Direct Repair Program (“DRP”) network. Our Keyless system indicates the availability of alternative products as
replacements for damaged OEM products. This data helps insurance companies monitor the body shops’ compliance with its DRP product guidelines that might, for instance, stipulate the use of the lowest cost products that meet quality
specifications. In addition, in some markets insurance companies are able to dispose of low value total loss vehicles directly to us so they can save the transaction fees associated with selling these vehicles through salvage auctions.

Remanufacturers—Core Sales

A mechanical part that is unsuitable for sale as a replacement product or is a part for which we currently have an excess supply will typically be sold in bulk shipments to mechanical remanufacturers.
Examples of mechanical products we sell in this manner are engine blocks and heads, transmissions, starters, alternators, and air conditioner compressors. Our sales to remanufacturers tend to be large orders and are dependent on their needs for
certain product lines. Beginning in 2010, certain engines that we previously sold to remanufacturers are retained and remanufactured internally.

Sales and Marketing

In the case of repairs paid for as a result of
insurance claims, which industry publications estimate are approximately 89% of all repairs, insurance companies give collision repair shops directives as to what type of replacement products are eligible for reimbursement. Typically insurance
carriers have established a hierarchy or decision tree prioritizing the types of products to be used for repairs: first, recycled products if available; if not, aftermarket or refurbished products as alternatives. If none of these alternative
product types is available, the shop may then use new OEM replacement products. As a body shop looks for products for a repair, the sourcing of products typically begins with a call to one of our recycled operations or one of our competitors. Our
recycled sales personnel are encouraged to capture the sale as a “one-stop shop” and, if recycled products are out of stock, to fill orders from our aftermarket or refurbished product inventory. To support these efforts, we have provided
our sales staff with access to both aftermarket and recycled sales systems, and we have developed sales incentive programs that encourage cross selling throughout our wholesale operations.

As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 1,750 full-time sales staff in our wholesale operating segment. The full time sales
personnel are located at sales desks at our facilities or at one of the regional call centers we operate. We deploy a call routing system that redirects overflow calls to alternative call centers, typically located within the same region. We also
operate two other call centers, one to support national accounts, and the other to support insurance adjusters’ needs and questions. Our sales personnel are encouraged to initiate outbound calls in addition to the inbound calls they handle. Our
sales staff can use our Keyless estimating system to generate sales leads for both aftermarket and recycled products.

We are
continually reviewing and revising the pricing of wholesale products. Our pricing specialists consider factors such as recent demand levels, inventory quantity on hand and turnover rates, new OEM product prices and local competitive pricing, with
the goal of optimizing revenue. We set list prices and then sell items at a discount to list, with the discount typically based on volume. We may adjust prices during the year in response to material price changes of new OEM replacement products.

We believe our commitment to stock inventory in local warehouses, supplemented by the inventory sharing system within our
regional trading zones, improves our ability to meet our customers’ requirements more frequently than our competitors and gives us a competitive advantage.







Distribution

We have a distribution network of 278 wholesale plants and warehouses across the U.S. and Canada, of which 31 function as large hub or cross dock facilities. Our network of facilities allows us to develop
and maintain our relationships with local repair shops while providing a level of service that is made possible by our nationwide presence. Our local presence allows us to provide daily deliveries as required by our customers, using drivers who
routinely deliver to the same customers. Our sales force and local delivery drivers develop and maintain critical personal relationships with the local repair shops that benefit from access to our wide selection of products, which we are able to
offer as a result of our regional inventory network.

We have developed an internal distribution network to allow our sales
representatives to sell aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured products from inventory within regional trading zones, thus improving our ability to fulfill customer requests and accelerating inventory turnover. Each weekday we operate
approximately 200 transfer runs between our cross dock facilities and our plants and warehouses within our regional trading zones to redistribute aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured products for delivery on the next day. In
addition, we have approximately 2,700 local delivery routes serving our customers each weekday.

Each sale results in the
generation of a work order at the location housing the specific product. A dispatcher is then responsible for ensuring fulfillment accuracy, printing the final invoice, and including the product on the appropriate truck route for delivery to the
customer. In markets where we offer aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured products, we have begun to integrate the delivery of multiple product types on the same delivery routes to help minimize distribution costs and improve
customer service. We operate a delivery fleet of medium-sized trucks and smaller trucks and vans. Over time, our delivery vehicles will become more consistent as we reconfigure the fleet to include vehicles that can carry all four product types.

Competition

We consider all suppliers of vehicle collision and mechanical products to be competitors, including aftermarket suppliers, other recycling businesses, refurbishing operations, parts remanufacturers, OEMs
and internet-based suppliers. We do not consider retail chains that focus on the do-it-yourself market to be our direct competitors. We believe the principal areas of differentiation in our industry include availability of inventory, pricing,
product quality and service.

The aftermarket product distribution business is highly fragmented and our competitors, other
than OEMs, are generally independently owned distributors with one to three distribution centers. Similarly, we compete with domestic vehicle product recyclers, most of which are single-unit operators. In some markets, smaller competitors have
organized affiliations to share marketing and distribution resources, including internet sites. We compete with the aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured product distributors on the basis of service, our nationwide distribution
system, our product lines, our relationships with certain insurance companies, and to a lesser extent, price.

Manufacturers
of new original equipment products sell the majority of automobile replacement products. We believe, however, that as the insurance and repair industries continue to recognize the advantages of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured
products, the alternatives to new OEM replacement products will account for a larger percentage of total vehicle replacement product sales. Since 2000, alternative parts usage has increased from approximately 23% to 37% of the collision replacement
product market. We compete with OEMs on the basis of price, service and product quality.

SELF SERVICE RETAIL

Our self service retail operations sell parts from older cars and light trucks directly to consumers. In addition to revenue from the sale
of parts, core and scrap, we charge a small admission fee to access the property. Our self







service facilities typically consist of a fenced or enclosed area of several acres with vehicles stored outdoors and a retail building through which customers are able to access the yard. As of
December 31, 2010, we conducted our self service retail operations from 43 facilities in North America.

Inventory

We acquire inventory for our self service retail product operations from a variety of sources, including but not
limited to towing companies, municipality sales, auctions, insurance carriers, charitable organizations and the general public. We typically procure salvage vehicles that are more than eight model years old for our self service retail recycled
product operations. These vehicles will typically be older and of lower quality than the salvage vehicles we purchase for our wholesale recycled product operations. In 2010, we purchased approximately 297,000 lower cost self service and crush only
vehicles.

Processing and Placement

Vehicles are typically delivered to our locations by the seller, though in some cases, we will arrange for transportation. Once on our property, minimal labor is required to process the vehicle other than
removing the fluids, catalytic converters and hazardous materials. Vehicles are then put out in the yard for customers to remove parts. The vehicle inventory is usually organized according to domestic and foreign cars, passenger vans and trucks. In
our self service business, availability of a specific part will depend on which vehicles are currently at the site and to what extent parts may have previously been removed and sold.

Part prices are listed on regularly updated price sheets and will vary by part type, but not by make or model. For instance, four
cylinder engines are priced the same amount regardless of vehicle make, model, age or condition. The revenue sources from these operations are: the sale of parts; the entrance fees; the sale of the cores and other metals; and the scrap of the
crushed car bodies of the vehicle after the sale parts have been removed. We usually allow customers access to vehicles for 30 to 60 days before they are crushed and sold to scrap metal processors.

Scrap and Other Materials

Our self service auto recycling operations generate scrap metal and other materials that we sell to recyclers. Vehicles that are no longer available to the public and “crush only” vehicles
acquired from other companies, including OEMs, are typically crushed using equipment on site.

Customers

The customers of our self service yards are frequently do-it-yourself mechanics, small independent repair shops servicing older vehicles
and auto rebuilders.

Competition

There are competitors operating self service businesses in all of the markets in which we operate. In some markets, there are numerous competitors, often operating in close proximity to our operations. We
try to differentiate our business by the quality of the inventory and the size and cleanliness of the property.

HEAVY-DUTY TRUCKS

LKQ started its heavy-duty recycled truck product operations in 2008 with the purchase of a recycler based in Houston,
Texas. As of December 31, 2010, we had a total of 11 facilities located in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. We began our recycled truck operations with a belief that development of a network would offer similar opportunities to those we have
experienced with our wholesale recycled product operations.







Our inventory is comprised of used heavy- and medium-duty trucks, usually from 2004 or
earlier, which are purchased at salvage and truck auctions or directly from insurance companies or large fleet operators. During 2010, we purchased approximately 4,000 vehicles. Depending on the condition of the vehicles, they may be resold as
running vehicles or dismantled for parts. The vehicles that are acquired for resale are typically special purpose or vocational use trucks such as those used for garbage pickup or cement delivery. If requested by the sellers of the vehicles, we
provide an assurance that the vehicles will be sold to foreign buyers and exported to countries for use outside of the U.S., or to domestic buyers after the vehicles have been reconditioned and modified for use other than their original purpose.

Customers

Customers for the recycled products are often owner/operators, local cartage companies operating small fleets or foreign buyers seeking low cost parts, most commonly engines and transmissions. Newer
products will often be sold to insurance companies for use in an insured’s vehicle. We also sell products and running vehicles to exporters.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 12,000
employees. We are a party to a collective bargaining agreement with a union that represents approximately 110 employees at our Totowa, New Jersey facility. Approximately 420 of our employees at our bumper refurbishing plant in Mexico and
approximately 170 of our employees at our recycled parts facility in Quebec City, Canada are also represented by unions. Other than these locations, none of our employees is a member of a union or participates in other collective bargaining
arrangements. We consider our employee relations to be good.

FACILITIES

Our corporate headquarters are located at 120 North LaSalle Street, Suite 3300, Chicago, Illinois 60602. The lease for our corporate
headquarters expires in July 2011, at which time we are scheduled to move to a leased facility at 500 West Madison Street, Chicago, Illinois 60606. In addition to our corporate headquarters, we also have regional offices throughout the U.S., all of
which perform corporate functions. We are in the process of transferring from the regional corporate offices to a financial services support center in Nashville, Tennessee certain corporate functions previously performed regionally, including
accounting, procurement, and information systems support. We expect this transition to be completed in 2011. In addition to our corporate offices, we have numerous operating facilities that handle wholesale, self service retail and heavy-duty truck
products. We operate out of more than 325 locations in total. A majority of these locations are leased. Some of our locations stock multiple product types or serve more than one function.

Included in our total locations are five facilities in Central America, 30 facilities in Canada and two facilities in Mexico.

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

In 2010, we completed the installation of a proprietary facility management system called LKQXat our domestic locations that we developed for our wholesale recycled product operations to replace a third party
system. The new system improves the integration of inventory with the aftermarket system and provides improved control, selling and data analysis features. We believe that a single system that presents a combined view of aftermarket, recycled,
refurbished and remanufactured products helps facilitate the sales process, allows for continued implementation of standard operating procedures, and yields improved training efficiency, employee transferability, access to our national inventory
database, management reporting and data storage. It also eliminates the need to create multiple versions of proprietary applications and systems support processes. The system also supports an electronic exchange process for identifying and locating
parts at other select recyclers and facilitates brokered sales to fill customer orders for items not in stock.







We use a single third party facility management system in our aftermarket operations.
Additional third party software packages have been implemented to leverage the centralized data and information that a single system provides, such as a data warehouse to conduct enhanced analytics and reporting, an integrated budgeting system, an
electronic data interchange tool, and eCommerce tools to enhance our online business-to-business initiatives—OrderKeystone.com and Keyless.

All of our refurbishing operations use a single facility management system. In 2010, we standardized our point-of-sale systems used in our self service retail operations, which allows for improved system
reliability and enhanced management reporting. We also implemented in 2010 a single enterprise system for all of our heavy-duty truck operations that supports inter-region sales to reduce the potential for lost sales due to out-of-stock parts.

The hardware that supports the systems used in our wholesale, self service and heavy duty truck operations is located in
offsite data centers. The centers are in secure environments with around-the-clock monitoring, redundant power backup, and multiple, diverse data and telecommunication routing.

We use separate third party provided software for our financial systems such as financial and budget reporting, general ledger
accounting, accounts payable, payroll, and fixed assets. We currently protect our local customer, inventory, and corporate consolidated data, such as financial information, e-mail files, and other user files, with daily backups. These backups are
stored off site with a third party data protection vendor.

We continually evaluate our systems with the goal of ensuring that
all critical systems remain scalable and operational as our business grows.

REGULATION

Environmental Compliance

Our operations and properties, including the maintenance of our delivery vehicles, are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations.
These environmental laws govern, among other things, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification,
transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials.

We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures relating to environmental matters. We have an environmental
management process designed to facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements. We cannot assure you, however, that we will at all times be in complete compliance with such requirements.

Although we presently do not expect to incur any capital or other expenditures relating to environmental controls or other environmental
matters in amounts that would be material to us, we may be required to make such expenditures in the future. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that
environmental laws will not change or become more stringent in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Contamination resulting from vehicle recycling processes can include soil and ground water contamination from the release, storage, transportation, or disposal of gasoline, motor oil, antifreeze,
transmission fluid, chlorofluorocarbons (“CFCs”) from air conditioners, other hazardous materials, or metals such as aluminum, cadmium, chromium, lead, and mercury. Contamination from the refurbishment of chrome plated bumpers can occur
from the release of the plating material. Contamination can migrate on-site or off-site which can increase the risk, and the amount, of any potential liability.







In addition, many of our facilities are located on or near properties with a history of
industrial use that may have involved hazardous materials. As a result, some of our properties may be contaminated. Some environmental laws hold current or previous owners or operators of real property liable for the costs of cleaning up
contamination, even if these owners or operators did not know of and were not responsible for such contamination. These environmental laws also impose liability on any person who disposes of, treats, or arranges for the disposal or treatment of
hazardous substances, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by such person, and at times can impose liability on companies deemed under law to be a successor to such person. Third parties may also make claims against owners or
operators of properties, or successors to such owners or operators, for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances.

When we identify a potential material environmental issue during our acquisition due diligence process, we analyze the risks, and, when appropriate, perform further environmental assessment to verify and
quantify the extent of the potential contamination. Furthermore, where appropriate, we have established financial reserves for certain environmental matters. In addition, at times we, or sellers from whom we purchased a business, have undertaken
remediation projects. We do not anticipate, based on currently available information and current laws, that we will incur liabilities in excess of reserves to address environmental matters. However, in the event we discover new information or if
laws change, we may incur significant liabilities, which may exceed our reserves.

Title Laws

In some states, when a vehicle is deemed a total loss, a salvage title is issued. Whether states issue salvage titles is important to the
supply of inventory for the vehicle recycling industry because an increase in vehicles that qualify as salvage vehicles provides greater availability and typically lowers the price of such vehicles. Currently, these titling issues are a matter of
state law. In 1992, the U.S. Congress commissioned an advisory committee to study problems relating to vehicle titling, registration, and salvage. Since then, legislation has been introduced seeking to establish national uniform requirements in this
area, including a uniform definition of a salvage vehicle. The vehicle recycling industry will generally favor a uniform definition, since it will avoid inconsistencies across state lines, and will generally favor a definition that expands the
number of damaged vehicles that qualify as salvage. However, certain interest groups, including repair shops and some insurance associations, may oppose this type of legislation. National legislation has not yet been enacted in this area, and there
can be no assurance that such legislation will be enacted in the future.

Anti-Car Theft Act

In 1992, Congress enacted the Anti-Car Theft Act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. The purpose of the law is to implement an
electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. In January 2009, the U.S. Department of Justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. The portion
of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any “covered major
part.” The Department of Justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. However, if this system is fully
implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on vehicle recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. It would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may further discourage the use
by such shops of recycled products. There is no pending initiative to implement the parts registration from a law enforcement point of view. However, there is a risk that a heightened legislative concern over safety of parts might precipitate an
effort to push for the implementation of such rules.

Legislation Affecting Automotive Repair Parts

Most states have laws relating to the use of aftermarket products in motor vehicle collision repair work. The provisions of these laws
include consumer disclosure, vehicle owner’s consent regarding the use of aftermarket products in the repair process, and the requirement to have aftermarket products certified by an independent







testing organization. Some jurisdictions have laws that regulate the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. Additional laws of this kind may be enacted in the future.
An increase in the number of states passing such legislation with prohibitions or restrictions that are more severe than current laws could have a material adverse impact on our business. Additionally, Congress could enact federal legislation
restricting the use of aftermarket and recycled automotive products used in the course of collision repair.

SEASONALITY

Our operating results are subject to quarterly variations based on a variety of factors, influenced primarily by seasonal changes in
weather patterns. During the winter months we tend to have higher demand for our products because there are more weather related accidents. In addition, the cost of salvage vehicles tends to be lower as weather related accidents generate a larger
supply of total loss vehicles.



