ITEM 1.BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

LKQ Corporation (“LKQ” or the “Company”) provides replacement systems, components, and parts needed to repair vehicles
(cars and trucks). In the case of automobile and light truck repairs, there are three part types that may be classified as alternatives to new original equipment manufacturers’ (“OEMs”) collision replacement parts. These include: 1)Aftermarket products—new products produced by manufacturers other than the OEMs, 2)Recycled products—parts produced by or for OEMs and removed from salvage vehicles, and 3)Refurbished products—remanufactured and
repaired vehicle parts originally produced by or for OEMs.

We are the nation’s largest provider of alternatives to OEM
collision products and a large provider of mechanical replacement parts used by collision and mechanical automobile repair businesses. We distribute aftermarket collision replacement parts, recycled collision and mechanical parts, and refurbished
collision replacement products, such as wheels, bumper covers and lights, to collision automobile repair businesses. In addition to our full service, wholesale recycling operations, we operate self service facilities that sell retail recycled
automotive products. We also sell recycled heavy-duty truck parts and used heavy-duty trucks. We segment our business into three operating divisions—wholesale automobile parts, self service retail parts, and heavy-duty truck parts.

LKQ was established in 1998 to create a network of wholesale recycled auto products businesses serving the automobile collision repair
industry. By 2003, we had become the largest provider of recycled products and related services in the U.S., with a network of locations that served a majority of the larger markets in the U.S. In 2004, we expanded into new business lines and began
selling refurbished and aftermarket products. That same year, we entered the self service retail auto parts business with the acquisition of a number of self service operations. With the acquisition in October 2007 of Keystone Automotive Industries,
Inc. (“Keystone”), we became the nation’s leading distributor of recycled and aftermarket collision replacement products, and began refurbishing bumpers and bumper covers. In conjunction with the acquisition of Keystone, we rebranded
all of our aftermarket product business under the name “Keystone.”

We entered the heavy-duty truck parts recycling
industry in 2008. The heavy-duty truck parts recycling industry has operating and sales functions that are similar to the auto recycled parts business.

We obtain the majority of our aftermarket parts inventory from auto parts manufacturers and distributors based in the U.S. and Taiwan. The recycled auto products that we sell are obtained for the most
part by procuring salvage vehicles, typically severely damaged by collisions and primarily sold at salvage auctions or pools, and then dismantling and inventorying the parts. The refurbished products, including wheels, bumpers, bumper covers and
head and tail lamps, that we sell are created from damaged parts bought through bulk purchases from core sales companies that collect damaged parts, parts received in trade at collision shops purchasing replacement products from us, and parts from
the salvage vehicles bought at auctions.







The majority of our products and services are sold to collision repair shops, also known as
body shops, and mechanical repair shops. We indirectly rely on insurance companies, which ultimately pay for the majority of collision repairs of insured vehicles. Insurance companies tend to exert significant influence in the vehicle repair
decision. Because of their importance to the process, we have formed business relationships with certain insurance companies in order to be a preferred parts supplier.

We provide customers with a value proposition that includes high quality products at lower cost than new OEM products, extensive product availability due to our regional inventory trading zones, and
responsive service and quick delivery. Repair shops and insurance companies benefit because the lower costs for our products enable many vehicles to be repaired rather than declared total losses. The breadth of our product offerings—aftermarket
products, recycled products, and refurbished wheels, bumpers, bumper covers and head and tail lamps—allows us to serve as a “one-stop” solution for our customers looking for the most cost effective way to provide quality repairs.

We strive to be environmentally responsible. Our recycled automotive products provide an alternative to the manufacture of
new products, which would require the expenditure of significantly more resources and energy and would generate a substantial amount of additional pollution. In addition, we save landfill space because the parts that we recycle would otherwise be
discarded. We also collect materials, such as fuel and motor oil, from the salvage vehicles that we procure, and use them in our operations or sell them to other users.

HISTORY

Since our formation in 1998, we have grown through acquisitions
and internal development. Today, LKQ is the only source for aftermarket and recycled automobile collision parts with a national network and presence.

Initially formed through the combination of a number of wholesale recycled auto parts businesses located in Florida, Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin, LKQ grew to be a leading source for recycled auto
collision and mechanical parts. In February 2004, we expanded our product offerings by acquiring a supplier of aftermarket and refurbished products and an operator of self service recycled facilities offering retail recycled products. We entered the
production of refurbished wheels with our acquisition of an aluminum alloy wheel refurbishing business in January 2006, and refurbished head and tail lamps with our acquisition of this type of business in January 2007. In October 2007, we
significantly increased our size by acquiring Keystone. At the time of the acquisition, Keystone was the leading distributor of aftermarket collision replacement parts. Keystone also refurbished steel bumpers, plastic bumper covers and alloy wheels,
which added to our existing wheel business. The Keystone acquisition also expanded our product offerings to include paint and other materials used in the repair of damaged vehicles.

In March 2008, we entered a new industry, which we believe is complementary to our existing businesses, with the acquisition of a recycled
heavy-duty truck parts business. Since that date, we have made additional strategic acquisitions of wholesale auto parts businesses, recycled heavy-duty truck parts businesses and self service retail vehicle products facilities. We made the
following acquisitions in 2009:



Wholesale Auto PartsCity Auto Parts of DurhamJanuary 2009Pieces d’Auto M. Robert Inc.March 2009Superior Collision PartsSeptember 2009Greenleaf Auto Recyclers, LLCOctober 2009Capo’s Auto Parts, Inc.December 2009Heavy-Duty Truck PartsTampa Truck Salvage, Inc.January 2009Maryland Truck Salvage, Inc.July 2009Valley Auto RecyclersNovember 2009







Our largest acquisition in 2009 was Greenleaf Auto Recyclers, LLC (“Greenleaf”), a
wholesale auto parts recycling business previously owned by Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. We believe that at the time of the transaction Greenleaf was the second largest wholesale auto parts recycling business in the U.S. with 17 locations
operating in nine states. Concurrent with the Greenleaf acquisition, we sold four self service facilities and certain assets associated with three other self service locations to Schnitzer. In January 2010, we sold two additional self service
recycling facilities to Schnitzer.

STRATEGY

We are focused on creating economic value for our stockholders by enhancing our position as a leading source for alternative collision and mechanical repair parts, and by expanding into other product
lines and businesses that may benefit from our operating strengths, such as recycled heavy-duty truck parts. We believe a supply network with a broad inventory of quality alternative collision repair parts, high fulfillment rates and superior
customer service will provide us with a competitive advantage. The competition in the markets in which we serve is extremely fragmented and the supply of parts tends to be localized, often leading to low fulfillment rates, particularly with recycled
products. The recycled and aftermarket distribution channels have historically been distinct and separate despite serving the same customer segment. To execute our strategy, we are expanding our network of dismantling plants and parts warehouses in
major metropolitan areas and employing a distribution system that allows for order fulfillment from regional warehouses located across the U.S. By continuing to grow our recycled parts inventory, complemented by a broad supply of aftermarket parts,
and efficiently moving the inventory within our network, we have increased fulfillment rates beyond the levels that we believe most of our competitors realize, particularly for recycled parts.

Sources of high quality, reliable alternatives to OEM parts are important to insurance companies and to our direct customers as they seek to
control repair costs. Lower parts costs and quicker completion of orders saves money and reduces cycle times. We believe this strategy is relevant for both the automobile and heavy-duty truck markets. In order to execute this strategy and build on
our progress thus far, we seek to expand into new, additional markets and to improve penetration both organically and through acquisitions in targeted markets.

National network in place

LKQ has invested significant capital to
develop a national network of aftermarket, recycled, and refurbished product facilities. The difficulty and time required to obtain proper zoning, as well as dismantling and other environmental permits necessary to operate newly-sited recycled parts
facilities, would make establishing a new network of locations a challenge for a competitor. In addition, there are difficulties associated with recruiting and hiring an experienced management team that has strong industry knowledge and local
relationships with customers.

We believe there are growth opportunities in new primary and secondary markets in the U.S. and
Canada. We intend to expand our market coverage through a combination of internal development and acquisitions in new regions and adjacent markets. Our national network allows us to initially enter new, adjacent markets by establishing local
redistribution facilities, avoiding the need for significant upfront capital outlays to establish local dismantling capabilities and inventories. We maintain a disciplined approach to acquisitions in new markets or expansions in existing market
areas.

Strong business relationships

We have developed business relationships with automobile insurance companies, collision repair shops, and other industry participants. We believe that insurance companies, as payers for many repairs, are
increasingly taking more active roles in the selection of alternative replacement products for vehicle repairs in order to contain the repair portion of the claims costs. On behalf of certain insurance companies, we provide a review of vehicle
repair estimates so they may assess the opportunity to increase usage of recycled, aftermarket and refurbished







products in the repair process, thereby reducing their costs. Our employees also provide quotes for our products to assist several insurance companies with their estimate and settlement
processes. We also work with insurance companies and vehicle manufacturers to procure salvage vehicles directly from them on a selected basis, which provides us with an additional source of supply and offers lower transaction costs to sellers of low
value salvage vehicles. We believe we are positioned to take advantage of the increasing importance these industry participants have in the repair process and will continue to look for ways to enhance our relationships with them.

We have begun to provide parts programs that offer additional product support to auto insurance companies. These product support programs
identify specific subsets of aftermarket parts by vendor and product type that can be used in the repair of vehicles that they insure. The programs typically offer aftermarket products that have been produced by manufacturers certified by a third
party testing lab. We may provide additional validation of the quality of the parts beyond our standard warranties, and identification details that make the parts traceable back to a manufacturer’s specific production run.

To strengthen our relationship with collision shops, we have developed “Keyless,” a program that enables collision repair shops to
link their estimating systems with our aftermarket and recycled inventory. It is compatible with all of the major estimating systems and provides up to the minute inventory availability. The system encourages the use of alternative parts by
indicating to the collision shop the availability of applicable alternative parts at the time of the estimate. It also provides data to our purchasing department as to the demand of specific parts and offers sales leads for our sales
representatives.

Technology driven business processes

We continue to focus on technology development as a way to support our competitive advantage. We believe that we can more cost effectively
leverage our data to make better decisions than our smaller competitors. We continue to develop our technology to better manage and analyze our inventory, assist our salespeople with up-to-date pricing and availability of our products, and further
enhance our inventory procurement process. For example, our representatives responsible for procuring vehicles are equipped with handheld computing devices that compare the vehicles at the salvage auctions to our current inventory, historical
demand, and recent average prices to arrive at an estimated maximum bid. This bidding system reduces the likelihood of purchasing unneeded parts that might result in obsolete inventory.

We deploy inventory management systems at our facilities that are similar to those used by leading distribution
companies. We make extensive use of bar code technology and wireless data transmission to track parts from the time a vehicle or part arrives at a facility to its placement on a route truck for delivery to the customer. All of our aftermarket
locations run on a standard operating platform. In our wholesale recycled products business, we are in the process of migrating to LKQX, a proprietary system that provides enhanced data for management reporting and analysis and simplifies the sales
process of both recycled and aftermarket products for our sales representatives. Through December 31, 2009, we had installed LKQXin five of our eight regions. We anticipate the rollout will be completed by year-end 2010.

Demand driven procurement

We use information systems and proprietary methodologies to help us identify high demand aftermarket and recycled products. Our information systems prioritize and recommend bid prices of the salvage vehicles we evaluate to purchase for our
inventory. We believe efficient procurement of aftermarket products and salvage vehicles is critical to the growth of the operating results and cash flow of our business. Our processes and systems help to identify with a high degree of accuracy the
value of the parts that can be recycled on a salvage vehicle sold at auction and recommend a maximum purchase price to achieve our target margins from the resale of the recycled products. We also use historical sales records of vehicles by model and
year to estimate the demand for our products. Combining this information with proprietary data that aggregates actual customer requests for products, we are able to source aftermarket products and salvage vehicles at prices that we believe will
allow us to sell products profitably.







Our aftermarket inventory system tracks parts sold and sales lost due to a lack of
inventory, and makes purchase recommendations. The inventory system also recommends purchases and transfers based on the extent and location of demand. Our buying team reviews the recommendations and places orders accordingly. When we procure
aftermarket products and refurbish wheels, bumpers and lights, we focus on products that are in the most demand by the insured repair market. Our most popular aftermarket products are head lamps, tail lamps, grilles, hoods, mirrors, bumpers, bumper
covers, and fenders. Because lead times may take 45 or more days on imported parts, sales volume and in-stock inventory are important factors in the procurement process.

High fulfillment rates

We have increased local inventory levels and
found that it has improved our customer service and allowed for faster deliveries. For both our aftermarket and recycled parts sales operations, improving order fulfillment rates reduces transfer costs and delivery times, and improves customer
satisfaction. Our ability to share inventory on a regional basis increases the availability of replacement products and also helps us to fill a higher percentage of our customers’ requests. We have developed regional trading zones within which
we make our inventory available to our local facilities, mostly via overnight product transfers. We manage our recycled product inventory and purchasing on a regional basis to enhance the availability of the products that we believe will be in the
highest demand within each region. Our higher than industry average fulfillment rates are a key differentiator compared to our competition.

Broad product offering

One Call Away

To execute our strategy of offering a broad inventory with high fulfillment rates, we offer our customers the choice of aftermarket, recycled or refurbished parts. If, for example, a customer has a damaged hood, we may offer that customer a
choice of a recycled or a new aftermarket hood. Because recycled parts are in limited supply, our ability to offer new aftermarket alternative parts increases our fulfillment rates and customer satisfaction. Historically there have been separate
supply channels in the industry for recycled and aftermarket parts; however, our business is evolving to where, in some markets, we are combining the channels through the sharing of warehousing, inventory, sales and distribution systems so that our
repair shop customers need only one source of supply for their collision repair parts.







WHOLESALE AUTO PARTS

Our wholesale auto parts operations are comprised of aftermarket, recycled and refurbished parts distribution operations. We have eight geographic regions serving the United States and parts of Canada
that sell all three product types to collision and mechanical automobile repair businesses.

Our aftermarket and refurbished
auto parts businesses are conducted from facilities that serve as sales, warehousing and distribution centers. As of December 31, 2009, we conducted our aftermarket and refurbished parts distribution from 145 facilities in the United States and
Canada.

We process salvage vehicles and warehouse recycled parts at facilities throughout the United States and Canada. A
typical facility has processing, sales, distribution and administrative operations on site, indoor and outdoor storage areas, and includes a large warehouse with multiple bays to dismantle vehicles. We also have facilities that operate primarily as
redistribution centers. As of December 31, 2009, we conducted our wholesale recycled parts operations from 92 facilities, 74 of which include a combination of processing, sales and redistribution operations, and 18 of which are primarily
redistribution facilities.

We refurbish bumpers and wheels at 51 locations in the United States and Canada and one location
in northeast Mexico. We refurbish head lamps and tail lamps primarily at a facility in Michigan.

Wholesale Aftermarket Products

We distribute more than 62,000 SKUs of aftermarket collision parts and repair materials for the most common models of
domestic and foreign automobiles and light trucks, generally for the eight most recent model years. Our principal aftermarket product types consist of those most frequently damaged in collisions, including: automotive body parts, bumpers, grilles
and lights. We also sell cooling products, paint and other materials used by collision repair shops. The sources for our aftermarket products are both foreign and domestic manufacturers and distributors.

Automotive Body Parts

Aftermarket products provide the collision repair industry with quality products at prices well below new OEM replacement parts. Lower costs may help insurers contain collision repair costs, and often mean that cars are considered
repairable rather than categorized as total losses.

The major collision product categories we have available for sale include
body panels, cooling system products, bumper covers, grilles, and replacement lighting components and mirrors. We carry multiple product lines that target different customer needs.

Platinum Plus

Platinum Plus is an exclusive brand offered in the Keystone
product line of aftermarket parts. It offers high quality parts at lower costs than new OEM replacement parts. The Platinum Plus parts are held to high quality standards and tested by quality teams. We provide a warranty for as long as a consumer
owns the vehicle. Many of our Platinum Plus parts are used for repairs that are ultimately paid for by insurance companies or may be part of our quality assurance programs.

CAPA

CAPA is an association that evaluates the functional equivalence of
aftermarket collision replacement products to OEM collision replacement products. Members of CAPA include insurance companies, parts distributors including LKQ, collision repair shops and consumers.







CAPA develops engineering specifications for aftermarket collision replacement products
based upon an examination of OEM parts; certifies the factories, manufacturing processes and quality control procedures used by independent manufacturers; and certifies the materials, fit and finish of specific aftermarket collision replacement
products. Many major insurance companies have adopted policies recommending or requiring the use when available of the approximately 3,000 parts certified by CAPA. A number of CAPA certified parts are also marketed under the Platinum Plus brand.

We distribute parts certified by CAPA and actively participate with CAPA, insurance companies and consumer groups in
encouraging independent manufacturers of collision replacement products to seek CAPA certification.

Value Line

We have developed a product line called “Value Line” for more value conscious, often self-pay, consumers. Our Value Line products
offer quality parts at reasonable prices, providing additional choices for repairs or rebuilding of vehicles. The Value Line product line is available for most product categories.

Paint and Related Materials

We distribute paint and other materials
used in repairing damaged vehicles, including sandpaper, abrasives, masking products and plastic filler. The paint and other materials distributed by us are purchased from numerous domestic suppliers. Certain of these products are distributed under
the brand “Keystone.”

Suppliers

The aftermarket products we distribute are purchased from independent manufacturers located primarily in Taiwan and the U.S. In 2009, we purchased 15% of the aftermarket products we sell from one
manufacturer and 12% from another manufacturer. No other suppliers provided more than 6%. We believe we are one of the largest customers of each of the ten largest suppliers. We purchased approximately 42% of our aftermarket products directly from
manufacturers in Taiwan and other Asian countries. Approximately 58% of our aftermarket products were purchased from locations in the United States. However, we believe that the majority of these products were manufactured in Taiwan and other Asian
countries.

We benefit from an automated procurement system that makes order and inventory transfer recommendations using
actual part sales and data for lost sales due to stockouts. Buyers review the system’s recommendations and then place purchase orders or arrange for a redistribution of inventory to areas of higher demand. For new parts, we use vehicle volume
and registrations by state to influence what new products should be ordered and where the stock should be located. Typically six months after the parts are introduced, the automated system has sufficient data to make order recommendations.

We have business arrangements with manufacturers to produce our Platinum Plus products. These agreements automatically renew
for additional 12 month periods unless written notice is given. While we compete with other distributors for production capacity, we believe that our sources of supply and our relationships with our suppliers are satisfactory.

For orders from domestic suppliers, we usually receive part orders within ten days. Orders placed with foreign manufacturers generally are
received within 45 to 60 days.

Foreign orders typically are shipped in sea containers directly to 75 of our 145 locations. We
have 23 regional hubs and one master warehouse located in Michigan. The hub warehouses act as sources for our other non-container, direct aftermarket warehouse locations, and serve as the central stocking point of all slower moving items, which
allows all branches to have a high fill-rate of next day availability. This structure enables us to provide higher fulfillment rates with minimal inventory on hand.







Wholesale Recycled Products

Wholesale recycled collision and mechanical parts provide high quality, lower-price repair options. Our most popular recycled products
include engines, transmissions, doors, front end assemblies, trunk lids, bumper assemblies, head and tail lamp assemblies and mirrors. Some insurance companies mandate that the recycled parts must be of the same model year or newer as the vehicle
being repaired. As a result, the parts we sell are typically from vehicles not more than ten years of age. We have adopted the industry’s grading system based on the condition of the parts, and factor part grades into our pricing decisions.
Unlike aftermarket parts that are individually boxed, recycled parts are most frequently sold as subassemblies or as multiple parts already put together. Installing recycled parts often means that collision shops not only save on parts cost, but are
able to reduce labor costs.

Procurement of Inventory

Each year approximately 10-12 million of the more than 240 million vehicles registered in the United States become end of life
vehicles (“ELV”) and are retired from use for reasons including age, damage, malfunction or abandonment. We procure recycled products for our wholesale operations by acquiring severely damaged or totaled vehicles. Vehicles that have been
declared “total losses” typically are sold at regional salvage auctions held throughout the country. Approximately 3 million salvage vehicles were sold in 2009 at the salvage auctions we attended, primarily to automotive recyclers,
exporters and rebuilders. Salvage auctions charge fees both to the suppliers of vehicles, primarily insurance companies, and to the purchasers, such as LKQ. Additionally, we pay third parties fees to tow the vehicles from the auction to our
facilities.

Over the past few years, the frequency with which vehicles are declared total losses has increased as a
result¸ we believe, of the rise in repair costs relative to used car values. As OEMs offer models that have increasingly complex safety measures such as multiple airbags and vehicle operating sensors, the cost to repair such vehicles has
risen.

In 2009, LKQ acquired approximately 166,500 salvage vehicles for our wholesale recycled operations with approximately
97% purchased at salvage auctions.

Our salvage buyers typically visit the auction sites in advance of scheduled auction dates
to investigate the vehicles to be sold and determine our interest in buying them. They obtain key information such as the model and mileage, and perform visual damage assessments to determine which parts on the targeted vehicles are recyclable. With
the data from this preview, we deploy a bidding system that performs a valuation calculation for each vehicle. The calculation incorporates demand for a vehicle’s recyclable parts, current inventory levels, average selling prices, auction
costs, projected margins and instances of out-of-stock, and recommends a maximum bid price. Bids are then placed on those vehicles which contain desirable parts. The system provides a disciplined supply and demand procurement approach that focuses
on vehicles for which there is greatest demand. In general we focus on vehicles that are typically no more than ten years old.

We acquired approximately 3% of the salvage vehicles we purchased for wholesale parts in 2009 directly from insurance companies, vehicle manufacturers, and other direct sellers. These arrangements eliminate the fees charged to the buyers
and sellers by the salvage auction, often providing inventory with a lower initial expenditure of capital. Direct purchase agreements, while usually beneficial, have limited applicability to our overall fleet procurement because of the volume of
vehicles we buy. Purchasing vehicles at auction provides us with the flexibility to focus on sought after vehicles based on our bidding algorithms.

When we obtain mechanical components, wheels, bumpers and certain lighting products from dismantled vehicles for which there is excess supply or if the parts are defective, we bundle these items and sell
them as “cores.” Cores are either sold in bulk to remanufacturers, as is the case for mechanical parts, or sent to our own refurbishing locations, as is the case for wheel, bumper and lighting items. Mechanical cores including engine
blocks, transmissions, starters, alternators, and air conditioner compressors are transferred to our processing facility in Houston, Texas, where we sort them by product and model type, and sell them in bulk.







Vehicle Processing

Vehicle processing for our wholesale operations involves dismantling a salvage vehicle into recycled products that are ready for sale. When a
salvage vehicle arrives at one of our facilities, an inventory specialist identifies, catalogs, and schedules the vehicle for dismantling. Prior to dismantling, each vehicle is run through a process to remove its fluids, Freon, and parts containing
hazardous substances and precious metals such as catalytic converters. The extracted fluids are stored in bulk and subsequently sold to recyclers. In the case of gasoline, the fuel retrieved is primarily used to power our delivery vehicles. A small
portion of the recycled motor oil we collect is used at certain of our plants that have high-efficiency oil burning furnaces; the balance is sold to motor oil recyclers.

When ready for dismantling, each vehicle will have an inventory report that indicates to the dismantler which parts should be removed and placed in a warehouse for future sales to customers, which parts
should be collected in bulk for sale to parts remanufacturers, and which parts have value but for now should remain on the vehicle.

Products that are placed directly on our shelves are typically higher sales volume items such as engines, transmissions, doors, hoods, trunk lids, head and tail lamp assemblies and front and rear bumpers. Many of the recycled parts we sell
are subassemblies of multiple parts including quarter panels and front end assemblies. The subassemblies are cut from the vehicle bodies usually using specific parameters provided by the repair shop at the time of sale.

Products that are not in a condition to be sold as recycled products or that are in surplus supply are separated and sold in bulk to parts
remanufacturers, or in the case of wheel, bumper and lighting items are sent to our refurbishing facilities.

If there is
strong demand for parts that are currently at high stock levels in our warehouses, we may choose to hold the vehicle for further dismantling at some future date when we are more likely to have a need for the parts. The holding period for partially
dismantled car bodies will depend on the rack space available at the site. Once all of the parts of value have been removed, the remaining vehicle frame is crushed and sold to scrap processors.

Prior to placement on our warehouse shelves, each inventory item is given a unique bar code tag for identification and entered into our
inventory tracking system. We utilize bar coding systems and wireless transmission to keep track of inventory from the time a part is removed and inventoried, to the time it is sold and put on a truck for delivery.

Refurbished Products

Our
purchase of Keystone included its bumper and wheel refurbishing operations. As of December 31, 2009, we operated 38 plastic bumper and bumper cover refurbishing plants, two chrome bumper plating plants, 12 wheel plants and one light
refurbishing plant.

Much of the output of our refurbishing plants is sold through our aftermarket and wholesale recycled
parts operations. The balance is sold to retail tire and wheel stores, wholesale distributors and via internet sales.

The
majority of our refurbished products are processed from cores obtained from salvage vehicles purchased by our recycled operations, damaged cores collected by our route delivery drivers from vehicles under repair by our customers, and from core
brokers. Our sales capacity is limited by the availability of cores to refurbish. We also sell some remanufactured or refurbished mechanical parts, such as engines and transmissions, that we acquire from mechanical remanufacturers.







Scrap and Other Materials

Our wholesale recycling operations generate scrap metal and other materials that we sell to recyclers. Vehicles that have been dismantled for
recycled parts and “crush only” ELVs acquired from other companies, including OEMs, are typically crushed using equipment on site. In other cases, we will hire mobile crushing equipment to crush the vehicles before they are transported to
shredders and scrap metal processors.

Customers

We have a well established wholesale customer list that includes collision and mechanical repair shops and new and used car dealerships. No single customer accounted for 2% or more of our revenue in 2009.

Repair Shops and Others

We sell the majority of our products to collision and mechanical repair shops. Industry reports estimate there were approximately 44,200 collision repair shops, including those owned by new car
dealerships, in the United States in 2008. The same reports estimate there were approximately 76,700 general (including mechanical) repair garages, but excluding new car dealership service departments, in the United States in 2008. The majority of
these customers tend to be individually-owned small businesses, although there has been a trend toward consolidation, resulting in the formation of several national and regional repair companies. We also sell our products to automobile dealerships
and fleet management groups.

Insurance Companies

Automobile insurance companies wield significant influence on the demand for our products. While insurance companies do not pay for our products directly, they ultimately pay for the repair costs of
insured vehicles in excess of any deductible amount. As a result, insurance companies often influence the types of products used in a repair.

Our nationwide presence gives us a unique ability to service the major automobile insurance companies. Insurance companies generally operate at a national or regional level and play a critical role in the
repair process. The use of our products provides a direct benefit to these companies by lowering the cost of repairs, decreasing the time required to return the repaired vehicle to the customer, and providing a replacement product that is of high
quality and comparable performance to the part replaced.

We assist insurance companies by providing high quality aftermarket
and recycled parts to collision repair shops, especially to repair shops that are part of an insurance company’s Direct Repair Program (“DRP”) network. Our Keyless system indicates on estimates the availability of alternative parts as
replacements for damaged OEM parts and whether we have those parts in inventory. This data helps insurance companies monitor the body shops’ compliance with its DRP parts guidelines that might, for instance, stipulate the use of the lowest cost
products that meet the quality specifications. In addition, in some markets insurance companies are able to dispose of low value total loss vehicles directly to us so they can save the transaction fees associated with selling these vehicles through
salvage auctions.

Remanufacturers—Core Sales

A mechanical part that is unsuitable for sale as a replacement part or is a part for which we currently have an excess supply will typically be sold in bulk shipments to mechanical remanufacturers.
Examples of mechanical parts we sell in this manner are engine blocks and heads, transmissions, starters, alternators, and air conditioner compressors. Our sales to remanufacturers tend to be large orders and are dependent on their needs for certain
product lines.







Sales and Marketing

In the case of repairs paid for as a result of insurance claims, which industry publications estimate is approximately 85% of all repairs, collision repair shops are given directives as to what type of
replacement parts are eligible for reimbursement. Insurance companies determine the replacement parts that are eligible for reimbursement for repairs of vehicles underwritten by specific insurance carriers. Typically insurance carriers have
established a hierarchy or decision tree prioritizing the types of products to be used for repairs: first, use recycled parts if available; if not, seek aftermarket or refurbished parts as alternatives. If none of these alternative parts types are
available, the shop may then use new OEM replacement parts. As a body shop looks for parts for a repair, the sourcing of parts typically begins with a call to one of our recycled operations or one of our competitors. Our recycled sales personnel are
encouraged to capture the sale as a “one-stop shop” and to fill orders from our aftermarket or refurbished parts inventory, if recycled parts are out of stock. To support these efforts, we have provided access to both recycled and
aftermarket sales systems for the recycled sales staff and developed sales incentive programs that encourage cross selling throughout our wholesale operations. We have also created links for aftermarket sales staff to refer customers to our recycled
products sales staff.

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 1,550 full-time sales staff in our aftermarket and
wholesale recycled products operations. The full time sales personnel are located at sales desks at our facilities or at one of the regional call centers we operate. We deploy a call routing system that redirects overflow calls to alternative call
centers, typically located within the same region. We also operate two other call centers, one to support national accounts, and the other to support insurance adjusters’ needs and questions. Our sales personnel are encouraged to initiate
outbound calls in addition to the inbound calls they handle. Our sales staff can use our Keyless estimating system to generate sales leads for both aftermarket and recycled parts.

We are continually reviewing and revising the pricing of our aftermarket and recycled products. Our pricing specialists consider factors
such as recent demand levels, inventory quantity on hand and turnover rates, new OEM product prices and local competitive pricing, with the goal of optimizing revenue. We set list prices, and then sell items at a discount to list, with the discount
typically based on volume. We may adjust prices during the year in response to material price changes of new OEM replacement products.

We believe our commitment to stock inventory in local warehouses, supplemented by the inventory sharing system within our regional trading zones, improves our ability to meet our customers’ requirements more frequently than our
competitors and gives us a competitive advantage.

Distribution

We have a nationwide distribution network of 237 aftermarket warehouses and wholesale recycled plants, of which 33 function as large hub or
cross dock facilities. Our network of facilities allows us to develop and maintain our relationships with local repair shops while providing a level of service that is made possible by our nationwide presence. Our local presence allows us to provide
daily deliveries as required by our customers, using drivers who routinely deliver to the same customers. Our sales force and local delivery drivers develop and maintain critical personal relationships with the local repair shops that benefit from
access to our wide selection of products, which we are able to offer as a result of our regional inventory network.

We have
developed an internal distribution network to allow our sales representatives to sell aftermarket, recycled, and refurbished products from inventory within regional trading zones, thus improving our ability to fulfill customer requests and
accelerating inventory turnover. Each weekday we operate approximately 250 transfer runs between our cross dock facilities and our plants and warehouses generally within our eight trading zones to redistribute aftermarket, recycled, and refurbished
products for delivery on the next day. In addition, we have approximately 2,400 local delivery routes serving our customers each weekday.

Each sale results in the generation of a work order at the location housing the specific part. A dispatcher is then responsible for ensuring fulfillment accuracy, printing the final invoice, and including
the product on the







appropriate truck route for delivery to the customer. In markets where we offer aftermarket, recycled, and refurbished products, we have begun to integrate the delivery of multiple product types
on the same delivery routes to help minimize distribution costs and improve customer service. We operate a delivery fleet of medium-sized trucks and smaller trucks and vans. Over time, our delivery vehicles will become more consistent as we
reconfigure the fleet to include vehicles that can carry both aftermarket and recycled parts.

Competition

We consider all suppliers of vehicle collision products to be competitors, including other recycled businesses, OEMs, parts remanufacturers,
suppliers of aftermarket and refurbished products, and internet-based suppliers. We believe our focus on collision parts differentiates us from many of these competitors. We do not consider retail chains that focus on the sales of aftermarket
mechanical replacement parts to be our direct competitors. We believe the principal areas of differentiation in our industry include availability of inventory, pricing, product quality, and service.

We compete with more than 6,000 domestic vehicle product recyclers, most of which are single-unit operators. We believe most of the vehicle
parts recyclers in the U.S. have less than $3.0 million in annual revenue. In some markets, smaller competitors have organized affiliations to share marketing and distribution resources, including internet sites. We also compete with
distributors of aftermarket and refurbished collision products. Similar to the recycled parts industry, the aftermarket collision parts distribution business is highly fragmented and our competitors, other than OEMs, are generally independently
owned distributors with one to three distribution centers.

Manufacturers of new original equipment parts sell the majority of
automobile replacement products. We believe, however, that as the insurance and repair industries come to appreciate the advantages of aftermarket, recycled, and refurbished products, the alternatives to new OEM replacement parts will account for a
larger percentage of total vehicle replacement product sales.

We compete with OEMs on the basis of service, price and product
quality, and compete with distributors of aftermarket collision parts primarily on the basis of service, the recycled and refurbished nationwide distribution system, our Platinum Plus product line, our relationships with certain insurance companies,
and, to a lesser extent, price.

SELF SERVICE RETAIL

Our self service retail operations sell parts from older cars and trucks directly to consumers. In addition to revenue from the sale of parts, core and scrap, we charge a small admission fee to access the
property. Our self service facilities typically consist of a fenced or enclosed area of several acres with vehicles stored outdoors and a retail building through which customers are able to access the yard. As of December 31, 2009, we conducted
our self service retail operations from 34 facilities in North America.

Inventory

We acquire inventory for our self service retail products operations from a variety of sources, including but not limited to towing
companies, auctions, municipality sales, insurance carriers, charitable organizations and the general public. We typically procure salvage vehicles that are more than eight model years old for our self service retail recycled products operations.
These vehicles will typically be older and of lower quality than the salvage vehicles we purchase for our wholesale recycled parts operations. In 2009, we purchased approximately 325,800 lower cost self service and crush only vehicles.







Processing and Placement

Vehicles are typically delivered to our locations by the seller, though in some cases, we will arrange for transportation. Once on our
property, minimal labor is required to process the vehicle other than removing the fluids and hazardous materials. Vehicles are then put out in the yard for customers to remove parts. The vehicle inventory is usually organized according to domestic
and foreign cars, passenger vans and trucks. In our self service business, availability of a specific part will depend on which vehicles are currently at the site and to what extent parts may have previously been removed and sold.

Part prices are listed on regularly updated price sheets, and will vary by part type, but not by make or model. For instance, four cylinder
engines are priced the same amount regardless of vehicle make, model, age or condition. The revenue sources from these operations are: the sale of parts; the entrance fees; and the sale of the cores and the scrap of the crushed car bodies of the
vehicle after the sale parts have been removed. Vehicles usually remain available to customers for 30 to 60 days before they are crushed and sold to scrap metal processors.

Scrap and Other Materials

Our self service auto recycling operations
generate scrap metal and other materials that we sell to recyclers. Vehicles that are no longer available to the public and “crush only” vehicles acquired from other companies, including OEMs, are typically crushed using equipment on site
to process the remaining car bodies.

Competition

There are competitors operating self service businesses in all of the markets in which we operate. In some markets, there are numerous competitors, often operating in close proximity to our operations. We
try to differentiate our business by the quality of the inventory and the size and cleanliness of the lot.

Customers

The customers of our self service yards are frequently do-it-yourself mechanics, small independent repair shops servicing older vehicles or
auto rebuilders selling low end cars.

HEAVY-DUTY TRUCKS

LKQ started its heavy-duty recycled truck parts operations in 2008 with the purchase of a recycler based in Houston, Texas. As of December 31, 2009, we had a total of seven facilities located in
California, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Ohio, and Texas in the U.S. and Quebec in Canada. We began our recycled truck operations with a belief that development of a network would offer similar opportunities to those we have experienced with our
wholesale recycled auto parts operations.

Our inventory is comprised of used heavy- and medium-duty trucks, usually from 2003
or earlier, which are purchased at salvage and truck auctions or directly from insurance companies or large fleet operators. During 2009, we purchased 3,730 vehicles. Depending on the condition of the vehicles, they may be resold as running vehicles
or dismantled for parts. The vehicles that are acquired for resale are typically special purpose or vocational use trucks such as those used for garbage pickup or cement delivery. If requested by the sellers of the vehicles, we provide an assurance
that the vehicles will be sold to foreign buyers and exported to countries for use outside of the U.S., or to domestic buyers after the vehicles have been reconditioned and modified for use other than their original purpose.

Customers

Customers for
the recycled parts are often owner/operators, local cartage companies operating small fleets or foreign buyers seeking low cost parts, most commonly engines and transmissions. Newer parts will often be sold to insurance companies for use in an
insured’s vehicle. We also sell parts and running vehicles to exporters.







EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 10,000 employees. We are a party to a collective bargaining agreement with a union that represents approximately 30 employees at our Totowa, New Jersey
facility. Approximately 350 of our employees at our bumper refurbishing plant in Mexico and approximately 160 of our employees at our recycled parts facility in Quebec City, Canada are also represented by unions. Other than these locations, none of
our employees is a member of a union or participates in other collective bargaining arrangements.

FACILITIES

Our corporate headquarters are located at 120 North LaSalle Street, Suite 3300, Chicago, Illinois 60602. The lease for our corporate
headquarters expires in July 2011. We also have regional offices throughout the United States, all of which perform corporate functions. The primary functions performed at our corporate offices are financial, accounting, treasury, marketing,
business development, human resources, information systems support, and legal. In addition to our corporate offices, we have numerous operating facilities that handle recycled, aftermarket, refurbished, self service retail and heavy-duty truck
products. We operate out of approximately 294 physical locations in total. A majority of these locations are leased. Some of our locations stock multiple product types or serve more than one function.

Included in our total locations are five recycled parts facilities in Central America. We have a core processing facility in Texas and an
aluminum smelter in Indiana.

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

We are in the process of installing a proprietary facility management system, called “LKQX”, that we developed for our wholesale recycled operations to replace a third party system. We expect to have fully
converted our wholesale recycled operations to LKQXby the
end of 2010. The new system improves the integration of inventory with the aftermarket system and provides improved control, selling and data analysis features. We believe that a single system that presents a combined view of recycled and
aftermarket products helps facilitate the sales process, allows for continued implementation of standard operating procedures, and yields improved training efficiency, employee transferability, access to our national inventory database, management
reporting, and data storage. It also eliminates the need to create multiple versions of proprietary applications and systems support processes. The system also supports an electronic exchange process for identifying and locating parts at other
select recyclers and facilitates brokered sales to fill customer orders for items not in stock.

We use a single third party
facility management system in our aftermarket operations. Additional third party software packages have been implemented to leverage the centralized data and information that a single system provides, such as a data warehouse to conduct enhanced
analytics and reporting, an integrated budgeting system, an electronic data interchange tool, and eCommerce tools to enhance our online business-to-business initiatives—OrderKeystone.com and Keyless.

The hardware that supports our wholesale recycled facility and aftermarket management systems is located in offsite data centers. The
centers are in secure environments with around-the-clock monitoring; redundant power backup; and multiple, diverse data and telecommunication routing.

We use a single facility management system in most of our refurbishing operations. We have been evaluating options to standardize the facility management systems relating to our heavy-duty truck and self
service operations. A system has been chosen for the heavy-duty truck operations and is being installed at each of those locations. The truck system migration should be completed during 2010.

We use separate third party provided software for our financial systems such as financial and budget reporting, general ledger accounting,
accounts payable, payroll, and fixed assets. We currently protect our local







customer, inventory, and corporate consolidated data, such as financial information, e-mail files, and other user files, with daily backups. These backups are stored off site with a third party
data protection vendor.

We continually evaluate our systems with the goal of ensuring that all critical systems remain
scalable and operational as our business grows.

Regulation

Environmental Compliance

Our operations and properties, including
the maintenance of our delivery vehicles, are subject to extensive federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations. These environmental laws govern, among other things, the emission and discharge of
hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury
and other hazardous materials.

We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures relating to
environmental matters. We have an environmental management process designed to facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements. We cannot assure you, however, that we will at all times be in complete compliance with such requirements.

Although we presently do not expect to incur any capital or other expenditures relating to environmental controls or other
environmental matters in amounts that would be material to us, we may be required to make such expenditures in the future. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Accordingly, we cannot
assure you that environmental laws will not change or become more stringent in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Contamination resulting from vehicle recycling processes can include soil and ground water contamination from the release, storage, transportation, or disposal of gasoline, motor oil, antifreeze,
transmission fluid, CFCs from air conditioners, other hazardous materials, or metals such as aluminum, cadmium, chromium, lead, and mercury. Contamination from the refurbishment of chrome plated bumpers can occur from the release of the plating
material. Contamination can migrate on-site or off-site which can increase the risk, and the amount, of any potential liability.

In addition, many of our facilities are located on or near properties with a history of industrial use that may have involved hazardous materials. As a result, some of our properties may be contaminated. Some environmental laws hold current
or previous owners or operators of real property liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination, even if these owners or operators did not know of and were not responsible for such contamination. These environmental laws also impose liability on
any person who disposes of, treats, or arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by such person, and at times can impose liability on companies deemed under law to be
a successor to such person. Third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties, or successors to such owners or operators, for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances.

When we identify a potential material environmental issue during our acquisition due diligence process, we analyze the risks,
and, when appropriate, perform further environmental assessment to verify and quantify the extent of the potential contamination. Furthermore, where appropriate, we have established financial reserves for certain environmental matters. In addition,
at times we, or sellers from whom we purchased a business, have undertaken remediation projects. We do not anticipate, based on currently available information and current laws, that we will incur liabilities in excess of reserves to address
environmental matters. However, in the event we discover new information or if laws change, we may incur significant liabilities, which may exceed our reserves.







Title Laws

In some states, when a vehicle is deemed a total loss, a salvage title is issued. Whether states issue salvage titles is important to the supply of inventory for the vehicle recycling industry because an
increase in vehicles that qualify as salvage vehicles provides greater availability and typically lowers the price of such vehicles. Currently, these titling issues are a matter of state law. In 1992, the U.S. Congress commissioned an advisory
committee to study problems relating to vehicle titling, registration, and salvage. Since then, legislation has been introduced seeking to establish national uniform requirements in this area, including a uniform definition of a salvage vehicle. The
vehicle recycling industry will generally favor a uniform definition, since it will avoid inconsistencies across state lines, and will generally favor a definition that expands the number of damaged vehicles that qualify as salvage. However, certain
interest groups, including repair shops and some insurance associations, may oppose this type of legislation. National legislation has not yet been enacted in this area, and there can be no assurance that such legislation will be enacted in the
future.

Anti-Car Theft Act

In 1992, Congress enacted the Anti-Car Theft Act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. The purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers
and major automotive parts. In January 2009, the U.S. Department of Justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. The portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts
would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any “covered major part.” The Department of Justice has not promulgated rules on
this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. However, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would
place substantial burdens on vehicle recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. It would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may further discourage the use by such shops of recycled products.

Legislation Affecting Automotive Repair Parts

Most states have laws that establish requirements for the use of aftermarket parts in motor vehicle collision repair work. These requirements range from consumer disclosure to the vehicle owner regarding
the use of aftermarket parts in the repair process to the requirement to have aftermarket parts certified by an independent testing organization. Some jurisdictions have laws that regulate the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such
as airbags. Additional laws of this kind may be enacted in the future. An increase in the number of states passing such legislation with prohibitions or restrictions that are more severe than current laws could have a material adverse impact on our
business. Additionally, Congress could enact federal legislation restricting the use of aftermarket and recycled automotive parts used in the course of collision repair.

Seasonality

Our operating results are subject to quarterly variations
based on a variety of factors, influenced primarily by seasonal changes in weather patterns. During the winter months we tend to have higher demand for our products because there are more weather related accidents. In addition, the cost of salvage
vehicles tends to be lower as weather related accidents generate a larger supply of total loss vehicles.



