ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Corporate Structure and Business and Other Information

Exelon, incorporated in Pennsylvania in February 1999, is a utility services holding company engaged, through Generation, in the energy generation
business, and through ComEd, PECO, BGE, PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE in the energy delivery businesses discussed below. Exelon’s principal executive offices are located at 10 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603, and its telephone number
is800-483-3220.

Generation

Generation’s integrated business consists of the generation, physical delivery and marketing of power across multiple geographical regions through
its customer-facing business, Constellation. Generation has six reportable segments consisting of theMid-Atlantic,Midwest, New England, New York, ERCOT and Other Power Regions.







Generation was formed in 2000 as a Pennsylvania limited liability company. Generation began operations as a
result of a corporate restructuring, effective January 1, 2001, in which Exelon separated its generation and other competitive businesses from its regulated energy delivery businesses at ComEd and PECO.

Generation’s principal executive offices are located at 300 Exelon Way, Kennett Square, Pennsylvania 19348, and its telephone number is610-765-5959.

ComEd

ComEd’s energy delivery business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity transmission and
distribution services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago.

ComEd was organized in the State of Illinois in 1913
as a result of the merger of Cosmopolitan Electric Company into the original corporation named Commonwealth Edison Company, which was incorporated in 1907. ComEd’s principal executive offices are located at 440 South LaSalle Street, Chicago,
Illinois 60605, and its telephone number is312-394-4321.

PECO

PECO’s energy delivery business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity
transmission and distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of natural gas distribution services to
retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia.

PECO was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1929. PECO’s
principal executive offices are located at 2301 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103, and its telephone number is215-841-4000.

BGE

BGE’s energy delivery business
consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity transmission and distribution services to retail customers in central Maryland, including the City of Baltimore, as well as the purchase and regulated
retail sale of natural gas and the provision of natural gas distribution services to retail customers in central Maryland, including the City of Baltimore.

BGE was incorporated in Maryland in 1906. BGE’s principal executive offices are located at 110 West Fayette Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21201, and
its telephone number is410-234-5000.

PHI

PHI is a utility services holding company engaged, through its reportable segments Pepco, DPL and ACE, in the energy delivery businesses discussed below.
On March 23, 2016, Pepco Holdings, Inc., converted from a Delaware corporation to a Delaware limited liability company, Pepco Holdings LLC. PHI’s principal executive offices are located at 701 Ninth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20068,
and its telephone number is202-872-2000.

Pepco

Pepco’s energy delivery business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity transmission and
distribution services to retail customers in the District of Columbia and major portions of Montgomery County and Prince George’s County in Maryland.







Pepco was incorporated in the District of Columbia in 1896 and Virginia in 1949. Pepco’s principal
executive offices are located at 701 Ninth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20068, and its telephone number is202-872-2000.

DPL

DPL’s energy delivery business
consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity transmission and distribution services to retail customers in portions of Delaware and Maryland, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of
natural gas and the provision of natural gas distribution services to retail customers in portions of New Castle County in Delaware.

DPL was
incorporated in Delaware in 1909 and Virginia in 1979. DPL’s principal executive offices are located at 500 North Wakefield Drive, Newark, Delaware 19702, and its telephone number is202-872-2000.

ACE

ACE’s energy delivery business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity transmission and
distribution services to retail customers in portions of southern New Jersey.

ACE was incorporated in New Jersey in 1924. ACE’s principal
executive offices are located at 500 North Wakefield Drive, Newark, Delaware 19702, and its telephone number is202-872-2000.

Business Services

Through its business
services subsidiary BSC, Exelon provides its operating subsidiaries with a variety of support services at cost. The costs of these services are directly charged or allocated to the applicable operating segments. Additionally, the results of
Exelon’s corporate operations include costs for corporate governance and interest costs and income from various investment and financing activities.

PHI Service Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of PHI, provides a variety of support services at cost, including legal, accounting, engineering,
distribution and transmission planning, asset management, system operations, and power procurement, to PHI and its operating subsidiaries. These services are directly charged or allocated pursuant to service agreements among PHI Service Company and
the participating operating subsidiaries.

Operating Segments

See Note 26—Segment Information of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Exelon’s operating
segments.

Merger with Pepco Holdings, Inc. (Exelon)

On March 23, 2016, Exelon completed the merger contemplated by the Merger Agreement among Exelon, Purple Acquisition Corp., a wholly owned
subsidiary of Exelon (Merger Sub) and Pepco Holdings, Inc. (PHI). As a result of that merger, Merger Sub was merged into PHI (the PHI Merger) with PHI surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon and Exelon Energy Delivery Company, LLC (EEDC), a
wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon which also owns Exelon’s interests in ComEd, PECO and BGE (through a special purpose subsidiary in the case of BGE). Following the completion of the







PHI Merger, Exelon and PHI completed a series of internal corporate organization restructuring transactions resulting in the transfer of PHI’s unregulated business interests to Exelon and
Generation and the transfer of PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE to a special purpose subsidiary of EEDC. See Note 4—Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the PHI
transaction.

Generation

Generation, one of the largest competitive electric generation companies in the United States as measured by owned and contracted MW, physically delivers
and markets power across multiple geographic regions through its customer-facing business, Constellation. Constellation sells electricity and natural gas, including renewable energy, in competitive energy markets to both wholesale and retail
customers. The retail sales include commercial, industrial and residential customers. Generation leverages its energy generation portfolio to ensure delivery of energy to both wholesale and retail customers under long-term and short-term contracts,
and in wholesale power markets. Generation operates in well-developed energy markets and employs an integrated hedging strategy to manage commodity price volatility. Generation’s fleet also provides geographic and supply source diversity.
Generation’s customers include distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, financial institutions, and commercial, industrial, governmental, and residential customers in competitive markets. Generation’s customer facing
activities foster development and delivery of other innovative energy-related products and services for its customers.

RTOs and ISOs exist in a
number of regions to provide transmission service across multiple transmission systems. PJM, MISO,ISO-NEand SPP, have been approved by FERC as RTOs, and CAISO andISO-NYhave been approved as ISOs. These entities are responsible for regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability, market
monitoring, the scheduling of physical power sales brokered through ICE and NYMEX and the elimination or reduction of redundant transmission charges imposed by multiple transmission providers when wholesale customers take transmission service across
several transmission systems.







Constellation Energy Nuclear Group, Inc.

Generation owns a 50.01% interest in CENG, a joint venture with EDF. CENG is governed by a board of ten directors, five of which are appointed by
Generation and five by EDF. CENG owns a total of five nuclear generating facilities on three sites, Calvert Cliffs, R.E. Ginna and Nine Mile Point. CENG’s ownership share in the total capacity of these units is 4,007 MW. See ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES for additional information on these sites.

Generation and EDF also entered into a Put Option Agreement on April 1, 2014, pursuant
to which EDF has the option, exercisable beginning on January 1, 2016 and thereafter until June 30, 2022, to sell its 49.99% interest in CENG to Generation for a fair market value price determined by agreement of the parties, or absent
agreement, a third-party arbitration process. In addition, under limited circumstances, the period for exercise of the put option may be extended for 18 months.

Prior to April 1, 2014, Exelon and Generation accounted for their investment in CENG under the equity method of accounting. The transfer of the
nuclear operating licenses and the execution of the NOSA on April 1, 2014, resulted in the derecognition of the equity method investment in CENG and the recording of all assets, liabilities and EDF’s noncontrolling interests in CENG at
fair value on a fully consolidated basis in Exelon’s and Generation’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Refer to Note 5—Investment in Constellation Energy Nuclear Group, LLC of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
further information regarding the integration transaction.

Acquisitions

ConEdison Solutions.On September 1, 2016, Generation acquired the competitive retail electric and natural gas business activities of
ConEdison Solutions, a subsidiary of Consolidated Edison, Inc., for a purchase price of $257 million including net working capital of $204 million. The renewable energy, sustainable services and energy efficiency businesses of ConEdison
were excluded from the transaction.

Integrys Energy Services, Inc.On November 1, 2014, Generation acquired the competitive
retail electric and natural gas business activities of Integrys Energy Group, Inc. through the purchase of all of the stock of its wholly owned subsidiary, Integrys Energy Services, Inc. (Integrys) for a purchase price of $332 million,
including net working capital. The generation and solar asset businesses of Integrys were excluded from the transaction.

Merger with
Constellation Energy Group, Inc.On March 12, 2012, Constellation merged into Exelon with Exelon continuing as the surviving corporation pursuant to the transactions contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger. Since the merger
transaction, Generation includes the former Constellation generation and customer supply operations.

Dispositions

Upstream Disposition.On June 16, 2016, Generation initiated the sales process of its Upstream business. See Note 14—Debt and
Credit Agreements for more information. In December 2016, Generation sold substantially all of the Upstream assets for $37 million which resulted in apre-taxloss on sale of $10 million which is
included in Gain(loss) on sales of assets on Exelon’s and Generation’s Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the year ended December 31, 2016.

Asset Divestitures.During 2014 and 2015, Generation sold certain generating assets with totalpre-taxproceeds of $1.8 billion(after-taxproceeds of approximately $1.4 billion). Proceeds were used primarily to finance a portion of the acquisition of PHI.







Maryland Clean Coal Stations.On November 30, 2012, a subsidiary of Generation sold the
Brandon Shores generating station and H.A. Wagner generating station in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, and the C.P. Crane generating station in Baltimore County, Maryland to Raven Power Holdings LLC, a subsidiary of Riverstone Holdings LLC to comply
with certain of the regulatory approvals required by the merger with Constellation Energy Group, Inc. for net proceeds of approximately $371 million, which resulted in apre-taximpairment charge of
$272 million.

See Note 4—Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions and Note 8—Impairment of Long-Lived Assets of the Combined Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Generating Resources

At December 31, 2016, the generating resources of Generation consisted of the following:



Type of CapacityMWOwned generation assets(a)(b)Nuclear19,457Fossil (primarily natural gas and oil)9,548Renewable(c)3,715Owned generation assets32,720Long-term power purchase contracts(d)6,879Total generating resources39,599



(a)See “Fuel” for sources of fuels used in electric generation.

(b)Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Generation for additional information.

(c)Includes wind, hydroelectric, and solar generating assets.

(d)Electric supply procured under site specific agreements.

Generation has six reportable segments, theMid-Atlantic,Midwest, New England, New York, ERCOT and Other Power Regions, representing the different geographical areas in which Generation’s customer-facing activities are conducted and where
Generation’s generating resources are located.



•Mid-Atlanticrepresents operations in the eastern half of PJM, which includes Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware, the District of Columbia and
parts of North Carolina (approximately 36% of capacity).



•Midwest represents operations in the western half of PJM, which includes portions of Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky and Tennessee; and the United States footprint of MISO (excluding MISO’s Southern
Region), which covers all or most of North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin, and the remaining parts of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio not covered by PJM; and parts of Montana, Missouri and Kentucky (approximately 37%
of capacity).



•New England represents the operations withinISO-NEcovering the states of Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont (approximately 7% of
capacity).



•New York represents the operations withinISO-NY,which covers the state of New York in its entirety (approximately 3% of capacity).



•ERCOT represents operations within Electric Reliability Council of Texas, covering most of the state of Texas (approximately 11% of capacity).



•Other Power Regions is an aggregate of regions not considered individually significant (approximately 6% of capacity).







See Note 26—Segment Information of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information on revenues from external customers and revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for each of Generation’s reportable segments.

Nuclear Facilities

Generation has ownership interests
in fourteen nuclear generating stations currently in service, consisting of 24 units with an aggregate of 19,457 MW of capacity. Generation wholly owns all of its nuclear generating stations, except for Quad Cities Generating Station (75%
ownership), Peach Bottom Generating Station (50% ownership), and Salem Generating Station (Salem) (42.59% ownership), which are consolidated on Exelon’s and Generation’s financial statements relative to its proportionate ownership interest
in each unit. In addition, Generation owns a 50.01% interest, collectively, in the CENG generating stations (Calvert Cliffs, Nine Mile Point [excluding LIPA’s 18% ownership interest in Nine Mile Point Unit 2] and R.E. Ginna) which are 100%
consolidated on Exelon and Generation’s financial statements as of April 1, 2014. See Note 5—Investment in Constellation Energy Nuclear Group, LLC of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the impact of the Future Energy Jobs Bill and New York CES on certain nuclear plants.

Generation’s nuclear generating stations are all operated by Generation, with the exception of the two units at Salem, which are operated by PSEG
Nuclear, LLC (PSEG Nuclear), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of PSEG. In 2016, 2015 and 2014 electric supply (in GWh) generated from the nuclear generating facilities was 67%, 68% and 67%, respectively, of Generation’s total electric
supply, which also includes fossil, hydroelectric and renewable generation and electric supply purchased for resale. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generation’s wholesale and retail power marketing activities. See ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for further discussion of Generation’s electric supply sources.

On August 8, 2016, Generation executed a series of agreements with Entergy Nuclear FitzPatrick LLC (Entergy) to acquire the 838MW single-unit James
A. FitzPatrick (FitzPatrick) nuclear generating station located in Scriba, New York. Closing of the transaction is currently anticipated to occur in the first half of 2017 and requires regulatory approval by FERC, NRC and the New York Public Service
Commission (NYPSC). The transaction is also subject to the notification and reporting requirements of the HSR Act (which has been completed) and other customary closing conditions. See Note 4—Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the
Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on the proposed acquisition of the FitzPatrick nuclear generating station.

Nuclear Operations.Capacity factors, which are significantly affected by the number and duration of refueling andnon-refuelingoutages, can have a significant impact on Generation’s results of operations. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can negotiate favorable terms for the
materials and services that its business requires. Generation’s operations from its nuclear plants have historically had minimal environmental impact and the plants have a safe operating history.

During 2016, 2015 and 2014, the nuclear generating facilities operated by Generation achieved capacity factors of 94.6%, 93.7% and 94.3%, respectively.
The capacity factors reflect ownership percentage of stations operated by Generation and include CENG as of April 1, 2014. Generation manages its scheduled refueling outages to minimize their duration and to maintain high nuclear generating
capacity factors, resulting in a stable generation base for Generation’s wholesale and retail







marketing and trading activities. During scheduled refueling outages, Generation performs maintenance and equipment upgrades in order to minimize the occurrence of unplanned outages and to
maintain safe, reliable operations.

In addition to the maintenance and equipment upgrades performed by Generation during scheduled refueling
outages, Generation has extensive operating and security procedures in place to ensure the safe operation of the nuclear units. Generation has extensive safety systems in place to protect the plant, personnel and surrounding area in the unlikely
event of an accident or other incident.

Regulation of Nuclear Power Generation.Generation is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC
with respect to the operation of its nuclear generating stations, including the licensing for operation of each unit. The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations to continuing review and regulation covering, among other things, operations,
maintenance, emergency planning, security and environmental and radiological aspects of those stations. As part of its reactor oversight process, the NRC continuously assesses unit performance indicators and inspection results, and communicates its
assessment on a semi-annual basis. As of January 30, 2017, the NRC categorized Ginna in the Regulatory Response Column, which is the second highest of five performance bands. All other units operated by Generation are categorized in the
Licensee Response Column, which is the highest performance band. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke operating licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under such Act or the terms of the
operating licenses. Changes in regulations by the NRC may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures for nuclear generating facilities and/or increased operating costs of nuclear generating units.

For information on the NRC actions related to the Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and the industry’s response, see ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—Executive Overview.

Licenses.Generation has
original40-yearoperating licenses from the NRC for each of its nuclear units and has received20-yearoperating license renewals from the NRC for all its nuclear units
except Clinton. Additionally, PSEG has received20-yearoperating license renewals for Salem Units 1 and 2. On December 8, 2010, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation
operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019.







The following table summarizes the current operating license expiration dates for Generation’s nuclear
facilities in service:



StationUnitIn-ServiceDate(a)Current LicenseExpirationBraidwood119882046219882047Byron119852044219872046Calvert Cliffs119752034219772036Clinton(b)119872026Dresden219702029319712031LaSalle119842042219842043Limerick119862044219902049Nine Mile Point119692029219882046Oyster Creek(c)119692029Peach Bottom(d)219742033319742034Quad Cities119732032219732032R.E. Ginna119702029Salem119772036219812040Three Mile Island119742034



(a)Denotes year in which nuclear unit began commercial operations.

(b)Although timing has been delayed, Generation currently plans to seek license renewal for Clinton and has advised the NRC that any license renewal application would not be filed until the first quarter of 2021.

(c)In December 2010, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. In 2016, Exelon notified the NRC that it will cease operations at Oyster Creek
on November 30, 2019.

(d)On June 7, 2016, Generation announced that it will submit a second 20 year license renewal application to NRC for Peach Bottom Units 2 and 3 in 2018.

The operating license renewal process takes approximately four to five years from the commencement of the renewal process until completion of the
NRC’s review. The NRC review process takes approximately two years from the docketing of an application. To date, each granted license renewal has been for 20 years beyond the original operating license expiration. Depreciation provisions are
based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which reflect the actual renewal of operating licenses for all of Generation’s operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek and Clinton. Oyster Creek depreciation provisions
are based on the 2019 expected shutdown date. Clinton depreciation provisions are based on 2027 which is the last year of the Illinois Zero Emissions Standard. See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional detail on the new Illinois legislation and Note 9—Early Nuclear Plant Retirements of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail on the reversal of the decision to early retire
Clinton.

In August 2012, Generation entered into an operating services agreement with the Omaha Public Power District (OPPD) to provide operational
and managerial support services for the Fort Calhoun Station and a licensing agreement for use of the Exelon Nuclear Management Model. On







December 16, 2016, Generation was notified by OPPD of the termination of the operating services agreement for Fort Calhoun Station effective June 14, 2017. OPPD has the option to
continue to use the Exelon Nuclear Management Model for payment of a fee.

Nuclear Waste Storage and Disposal.There are no facilities
for the reprocessing or permanent disposal of SNF currently in operation in the United States, nor has the NRC licensed any such facilities. Generation currently stores all SNF generated by its nuclear generating facilitieson-sitein storage pools or in dry cask storage facilities. Since Generation’s SNF storage pools generally do not have sufficient storage capacity for the life of the respective plant, Generation has developed
dry cask storage facilities to support operations.

As of December 31, 2016, Generation had approximately 77,900 SNF assemblies (19,200 tons)
stored on site in SNF pools or dry cask storage (this includes SNF assemblies at Zion Station, for which Generation retains ownership even though the responsibility for decommissioning Zion Station has been assumed by another party; see Note
16—Asset Retirement Obligations of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Zion Station Decommissioning). All currently operating Generation-owned nuclear sites haveon-sitedry cask storage, except for Three Mile Island, where such storage is projected to be in operation in 2023.On-sitedry cask storage in concert withon-sitestorage pools will be capable of meeting all current and future SNF storage requirements at Generation’s sites through the end of the license renewal periods and through decommissioning.

For a discussion of matters associated with Generation’s contracts with the DOE for the disposal of SNF, see Note 24—Commitments and
Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

As aby-productof their
operations, nuclear generating units produce LLRW. LLRW is accumulated at each generating station and permanently disposed of at licensed disposal facilities. The FederalLow-LevelRadioactive Waste Policy Act
of 1980 provides that states may enter into agreements to provide regional disposal facilities for LLRW and restrict use of those facilities to waste generated within the region. Illinois and Kentucky have entered into such an agreement, although
neither state currently has an operational site and none is anticipated to be operational until after 2020.

Generation ships its Class A LLRW,
which represents 93% of LLRW generated at its stations, to disposal facilities in Utah and South Carolina. The disposal facility in South Carolina at present is only receiving LLRW from LLRW generators in South Carolina, New Jersey (which includes
Oyster Creek and Salem), and Connecticut.

Generation utilizeson-sitestorage capacity at all its stations
to store and stage for shipping Class B and Class C LLRW. Generation has a contract through 2032 to ship Class B and Class C LLRW to a disposal facility in Texas. The agreement provides for disposal of all current Class B
and Class C LLRW currently stored at each station as well as the Class B and Class C LLRW generated during the term of the agreement. However, because the production of LLRW from Generation’s nuclear fleet will exceed the
capacity at the Texas site (3.9 million curies for 15 years beginning in 2012), Generation will still be required to utilizeon-sitestorage at its stations for Class B and Class C LLRW.
Generation currently has enough storage capacity to store all Class B and C LLRW for the life of all stations in Generation’s nuclear fleet. Generation continues to pursue alternative disposal strategies for LLRW, including an LLRW
reduction program to minimize cost impacts andon-sitestorage.

Nuclear Insurance.Generation
is subject to liability, property damage and other risks associated with major incidents at any of its nuclear stations, including the CENG nuclear stations. Generation has







reduced its financial exposure to these risks through insurance and other industry risk-sharing provisions. See “Nuclear Insurance” within Note 24—Commitments and Contingencies of
the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details.

For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES—Generation. Generation is self-insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained or are within the policy deductible for its insured losses. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on
Exelon’s and Generation’s future financial conditions and results of operations and cash flows.

Decommissioning.NRC
regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. See ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—Exelon Corporation, Executive Overview; ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates, Nuclear Decommissioning, Asset Retirement Obligations and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments; and Note 3—Regulatory Matters, Note 12—Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities and Note
16—Asset Retirement Obligations of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Generation’s NDT funds and its decommissioning obligations. The ultimate decommissioning obligation will be
funded by the NDTs. The NDTs are recorded on Exelon’s and Generation’s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2016 at fair value of approximately $11.1 billion and have an estimated targeted annual pre-tax return of 5.3% to 5.9%.

Zion Station Decommissioning.On December 11, 2007, Generation entered into an Asset Sale Agreement (ASA) with EnergySolutions, Inc. and its
wholly owned subsidiaries, EnergySolutions, LLC (EnergySolutions) and ZionSolutions, LLC (ZionSolutions) under which ZionSolutions assumed responsibility for decommissioning Zion Station, which is located in Zion, Illinois and ceased operation in
1998.

On September 1, 2010, Generation and EnergySolutions completed the transactions contemplated by the ASA. Specifically, Generation
transferred to ZionSolutions substantially all of the assets (other than land) associated with Zion Station, including assets held in related NDT funds. In consideration for Generation’s transfer of those assets, ZionSolutions assumed
decommissioning and other liabilities, excluding the obligation to dispose of SNF, associated with Zion Station. Pursuant to the ASA, ZionSolutions will periodically request reimbursement from the Zion Station-related NDT funds for costs incurred
related to the decommissioning efforts at Zion Station. However, ZionSolutions is subject to certain restrictions on its ability to request reimbursement; specifically, if certain milestones as defined in the ASA are not met, all or a portion of
requested reimbursements shall be deferred until such milestones are met. See Note 16—Asset Retirement Obligations of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Zion Station Decommissioning and
see Note 2—Variable Interest Entities of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of variable interest entity considerations related to ZionSolutions.

Fossil and Renewable Facilities (including Hydroelectric)

At December 31, 2016, Generation had ownership interests in 13,263 MW of capacity in generating facilities currently in service, consisting of 9,522 MW
of natural gas and oil, 3,715 MW of renewables (wind, hydroelectric, and solar) and 26 MW of waste coal. Generation wholly owns all of its fossil and renewable generating stations, with the exception of: (1) jointly owned facilities that
include Wyman; (2) certain wind project entities with minority interest owners; and (3) an ownership interest in the Albany Green Energy, LLC project entity, see Note 2—Variable Interest Entities of the Combined Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information regarding certain of these entities which are VIEs. Generation’s fossil and renewable generating stations are all operated by Generation, with the exception of LaPorte







and Wyman, which are operated by third parties. In 2016, 2015 and 2014, electric supply (in GWh) generated from owned fossil and renewable generating facilities was 10%, 8% and 13%, respectively,
of Generation’s total electric supply. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generation’s wholesale and retail power marketing activities. For additional information regarding Generation’s electric generating
facilities, see ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Exelon Generation Company, LLC and ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—Exelon Corporation, Executive Overview for additional information on
Generation Renewable Development.

Licenses.Fossil and renewable generation plants are generally not licensed, and, therefore, the
decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. FERC has the exclusive authority to license mostnon-Federalhydropower projects located on navigable waterways or Federal lands, or
connected to the interstate electric grid. On August 29, 2012 and August 30, 2012, Generation submitted hydroelectric license applications to the FERC for46-yearlicenses for the Conowingo
Hydroelectric Project (Conowingo) and the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Facility Project (Muddy Run), respectively. On December 22, 2015, FERC issued a new40-yearlicense for Muddy Run. The license term
expires on December 1, 2055. Based on the FERC procedural schedule, the FERC licensing process was not completed prior to the expiration of Conowingo’s license on September 1, 2014. FERC is required to issue an annual license for the
facility until the new license is issued. On September 10, 2014, FERC issued an annual license for Conowingo, effective as of the expiration of the previous license. If FERC does not issue a new license prior to the expiration of annual
license, the annual license will renew automatically. The stations are currently being depreciated over their estimated useful lives, which includes actual and anticipated license renewal periods. Refer to Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the
Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Insurance.Generation maintains business interruption
insurance for its renewable and fossil projects, and delay instart-upinsurance for its renewable and fossil projects currently under construction. Generation does not purchase business interruption insurance
for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric operations, unless required by financing agreements; see Note 14—Debt and Credit Agreements of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on financing
agreements. Generation maintains both property damage and liability insurance. For property damage and liability claims for these operations, Generation is self-insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount
of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon’s and Generation’s future financial conditions and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES—Exelon Generation Company, LLC.







Long-Term Power Purchase Contracts

In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation sources electricity and other related output from plants it does not own under
long-term contracts. The following tables summarize Generation’s long-term contracts to purchase unit-specific physical power with an original term in excess of one year in duration, by region, in effect as of December 31, 2016:



RegionNumber ofAgreementsExpirationDatesCapacity (MW)Mid-Atlantic162017 - 2032800Midwest62017 - 20261,236New England82017650ERCOT52020 - 20311,501Other Power Regions112017 - 20302,692Total466,879



20172018201920202021Capacity Expiring (MW)1,790101644980815

Fuel

The following
table shows sources of electric supply in GWh for 2016 and 2015:



Source of Electric Supply20162015Nuclear(a)176,799175,474Purchases—non-tradingportfolio59,98763,637Fossil (primarily natural gas and oil)19,83014,936Renewable(b)6,3245,982Total supply262,940260,029



(a)Includes the proportionate share of output where Generation has an undivided ownership interest in jointly-owned generating plants and includes the total output of plants that are fully consolidated (e.g., CENG).
Nuclear generation for 2016 and 2015 includes physical volumes of 33,444 GWh and 33,415 GWh, respectively, for CENG.

(b)Includes wind, hydroelectric, and solar generating assets.

The fuel costs per MWh for nuclear
generation are less than those for fossil-fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost-effective way for Generation to meet its wholesale and retail load servicing requirements.

The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of
uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate
requirements through 2018. Generation’s contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2017. All of Generation’s enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2020. Contracts
for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2022. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment or fabrication services to meet the nuclear fuel requirements of its nuclear
units.

Natural gas is procured through long-term and short-term contracts, as well as spot-market purchases. Fuel oil inventories are managed so
that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are







available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage of favorable market pricing.

Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price
risk, using bothover-the-counterand exchange-traded instruments. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS, ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 13—Derivative Financial Instruments of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments.

Power Marketing

low-cost

Generation may purchase more than the energy demanded by its customers. Generation then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet
customer demand, in the wholesale electricity markets. Where necessary, Generation also purchases transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs in
markets without an organized RTO. Generation also incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer-than-normal weather
conditions.

Price Supply Risk Management

Generation also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities.
Generation implements a three-year ratable sales plan to align its hedging strategy with its financial objectives. Generation also enters into transactions that are outside of this ratable sales plan. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk in
2017 and beyond for portions of its electricity portfolio that are unhedged. Generation has been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate this risk in subsequent years. As of December 31, 2016, the percentage of
expected generation hedged for the major reportable segments was91%-94%,56%-59%and28%-31%for 2017, 2018, and 2019,
respectively. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation is the volume of energy that best represents our commodity position in energy markets from owned or
contracted generating facilities based upon a simulated dispatch model that







makes assumptions regarding future market conditions, which are calibrated to market quotes for power, fuel, load following products, and options. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products,
which include economic hedges and certainnon-derivativecontracts, including sales to ComEd, PECO, BGE, Pepco, DPL, and ACE to serve their retail load. A portion of Generation’s hedging strategy may be
implemented through the use of fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices, which routinely change in the market. The corporate risk management group and Exelon’s RMC monitor the financial risks of the wholesale
and retail power marketing activities. Generation also uses financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes, but this activity accounts for only a small portion of Generation’s efforts. The proprietary trading portfolio is
subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits, including volume, stop-loss andvalue-at-risklimits, to manage exposure to market
risk. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK for additional information.

Capital Expenditures

Generation’s business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in nuclear fuel and energy generation assets and in other internal
infrastructure projects. Generation’s estimated capital expenditures for 2017 are as follows:



(in millions)Nuclear fuel(a)$925Growth600Production plant1,125Total$2,650



(a)Includes Generation’s share of the investment in nuclear fuel for theco-ownedSalem plant.

ComEd

ComEd is engaged principally
in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity distribution and transmission services to retail customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is a public utility under the Illinois Public Utilities Act subject to
regulation by the ICC related to distribution rates and service, the issuance of securities and certain other aspects of ComEd’s business. ComEd is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to
transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEd’s business. Specific operations of ComEd are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, ComEd is subject to NERC mandatory
reliability standards.

ComEd’s franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ComEd’s franchise rights
are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience issued by the ICC. With few exceptions, the franchise rights have stated expiration dates ranging from 2017 to 2066. ComEd anticipates
working with the appropriate governmental bodies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration.

PECO

PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity distribution and transmission
services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of gas distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania
counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is a public utility under the Pennsylvania Public







Utility Code subject to regulation by the PAPUC related to electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of PECO’s business.
PECO is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to transmission rates and certain other aspects of PECO’s business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation related to pipeline safety and other
areas of gas operations. Specific operations of PECO are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, PECO is also subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards.

PECO has the necessary authorizations to provide regulated electric and natural gas distribution services in the various municipalities or territories
in which it now supplies such services. PECO’s authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and/or “grandfathered rights,” with all of such rights generally unlimited as to time
and generally exclusive from competition from other electric and natural gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECO’s natural gas service territory authorizations overlap with that of another natural gas utility; however, PECO does
not consider those situations as posing a material competitive or financial threat.

BGE

BGE is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity distribution and transmission
services to retail customers in central Maryland, including the City of Baltimore, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of gas distribution services to retail customers in central Maryland, including the
City of Baltimore. BGE is a public utility under the Public Utilities Article of the Maryland Annotated Code subject to regulation by the MDPSC related to electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and
certain other aspects of BGE’s business. BGE is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to transmission rates and certain other aspects of BGE’s business and by the U.S. Department of
Transportation related to pipeline safety and other areas of gas operations. Specific operations of BGE are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, BGE is also subject to NERC mandatory
reliability standards.

BGE has the necessary authorizations to provide regulated electric and natural gas distribution services in the various
municipalities and territories in which it now supplies such services. With respect to electric distribution service, BGE’s authorizations consist of charter rights, a state-wide franchise grant and a franchise grant from the City of Baltimore.
The franchise rights are nonexclusive and are perpetual. Pursuant to statute, public service companies in Maryland may exercise a franchise to the extent authorized by the MDPSC. The service territory for BGE, as well as for other electric utilities
in the state, was precisely delineated in 1966 by the MDPSC and has been modified in minor ways over the years. With respect to natural gas distribution service, BGE’s authorizations consist of charter rights, a perpetual state-wide franchise
grant and franchises granted by all the municipalities and/or governmental bodies in which BGE now supplies services. The franchise grants are not exclusive; some are perpetual and some are for a limited duration, which BGE anticipates being able to
extend or replace prior to expiration.

PHI

PHI was incorporated in Delaware in 2001. Through its reportable segments Pepco, DPL and ACE, PHI is engaged primarily in the transmission, distribution
and default supply of electricity, and, to a lesser extent, the distribution and supply of natural gas. On March 23, 2016, Pepco Holdings, Inc., converted from a Delaware corporation to a Delaware limited liability company, Pepco Holdings LLC.
PHI Service Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of PHI, provides a variety of support services at cost, including legal, accounting, engineering, distribution and transmission planning, asset management, system operations, and power procurement, to
PHI and its operating subsidiaries.







Pepco

Pepco is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity distribution and transmission
services in the District of Columbia and major portions of Prince George’s County and Montgomery County in Maryland. Pepco is a public utility under the Code of the District of Columbia and subject to regulation by the DCPSC related to
distribution rates and service, the issuance of securities and certain other aspects of Pepco’s business in the District of Columbia. Pepco is also an electric company under the Maryland Public Utilities Article of the Maryland Annotated Code
subject to regulation by the MDPSC related to distribution rates and service, the issuance of securities and certain other aspects of Pepco’s business in Maryland. Pepco is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by
FERC related to transmission rates and certain other aspects of Pepco’s business. Additionally, Pepco is subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards.

Pepco’s right to occupy public space for utility purposes is by permit from the District of Columbia and the federal government. Pepco is the only
public utility that distributes electricity for sale to the public in the District of Columbia. In Maryland, Pepco operates pursuant to state-wide franchises granted by Maryland’s General Assembly that are unlimited in duration. Pursuant to
statute, public service companies in Maryland may exercise a franchise to the extent authorized by the MDPSC. The service territories for Pepco, as well as for other electric utilities in the state, were precisely delineated in 1966 by the MDPSC and
have been modified in minor ways over the years.

DPL

DPL is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity distribution and transmission
services to retail customers in portions of Maryland and Delaware, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of natural gas distribution services to retail customers in New Castle County, Delaware. DPL is a
public utility under the Delaware Code and subject to regulation by the DPSC related to electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuance of certain securities and certain other aspects of DPL’s business in Delaware. In Maryland,
DPL is an electric company under the Public Utilities Article of the Maryland Annotated Code subject to regulation by the MDPSC related to electric rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of DPL’s
business in Maryland. DPL is a public utility under the Federal Power Act and is subject to regulation by FERC related to transmission rates and certain other aspects of DPL’s business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation related to
pipeline safety and other areas of gas operations. Additionally, DPL is also subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards.

DPL has the necessary
authorizations to provide regulated electric and natural gas distribution services in the various municipalities and territories in which it now supplies such services. In Maryland, DPL operates pursuant to state-wide franchises that are
substantially similar in nature to those described above with respect to Pepco’s Maryland operations. DPL’s exclusive and continuing authority to distribute electricity and natural gas in itsnon-municipalservice territories in Delaware is derived from legislation, through which the DPSC has established exclusive service territories. With respect to municipalities that it serves, DPL provides
service under various franchises granted to DPL and predecessor companies, which franchises are generally either unlimited as to time or renew automatically.

ACE

ACE is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity distribution and
transmission services to retail customers in portions of southern New







Jersey. ACE is a public utility under the New Jersey Public Utilities Act subject to regulation by the NJBPU related to distribution rates and service, the issuance of securities and certain
other aspects of ACE’s business. ACE is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to transmission rates and certain other aspects of ACE’s business. Additionally, ACE is subject to NERC mandatory
reliability standards.

ACE’s franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ACE operates undernon-exclusivefranchises that have been granted by the NJBPU and under certainnon-exclusiveconsents from municipalities in which ACE provides service. While most of the
municipal consents were granted in perpetuity, two of the municipal consents require renewal on a periodic basis in accordance with their terms with respect to ACE’s continued right to erect and maintain wires and poles in, upon, over and under
the public streets, streets and alleys, and are subject to the ultimate review and approval of the NJBPU. All of the franchises and consents are currently in full force and effect.

ComEd, PECO, BGE, Pepco, DPL and ACE

Utility Operations

Service Territories.The following table presents the size of retail service territories, populations of each retail service territory and the
number of retail customers within each retail service territory for the Utility Registrants as of December 31, 2016:



Retail Service Territories(in square miles)Retail Service Territory Population(in millions)Number of Retail Customers(in millions)TotalElectricNatural gasTotalElectricNatural gasTotalElectricNatural gasComEd11,40011,400n/a9.4(a)9.4n/a4.04.0n/aPECO2,1001,9001,9004.6(b)4.03.12.11.60.5BGE2,3002,3008003.0(c)3.02.91.31.30.7Pepco640640n/a2.4(d)2.4n/a0.90.9n/aDPL5,6755,4002752.0(e)1.40.60.60.50.1ACE2,8002,800n/a1.1(f)1.1n/a0.50.5n/a



(a)Includes approximately 2.7 million in the city of Chicago.

(b)Includes approximately 1.6 million in the city of Philadelphia.

(c)Includes approximately 0.6 million in the city of Baltimore.

(d)Includes approximately 0.7 million in the District of Columbia.

(e)Includes approximately 0.1 million in the city of Wilmington.

(f)Includes approximately 0.1 million in the city of Atlantic City.

Peak Deliveries.The
Utility Registrantselectric sales and peak load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. For PECO, BGE and DPL natural gas sales are
generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating.







The following table summarizes historic peak deliveries for the Utility Registrants for electric and gas
deliveries during peak demand months through December 31, 2016:



Electric Peak Deliveries(in GW)Natural Gas Peak Deliveries(in mmcfs)Summerpeak dateSummerdeliveriesWinter peakdateWinterdeliveriesWinter peakdateWinterdeliveriesComEd7/20/201123.751/6/201416.51n/an/aPECO7/22/20118.981/7/20147.172/15/2015777BGE7/21/20117.232/20/20156.712/19/2015777Pepco7/22/20117.022/20/20156.07n/an/aDPL7/22/20114.142/20/20154.112/15/2015186ACE7/22/20112.961/7/20141.8n/an/a

Electric and Natural Gas Distribution Services.The Utility Registrants are allowed to recover reasonable costs
and fair and prudent capital expenditures associated with electric and natural gas distribution services and earn a return on those capital expenditures, subject to commission approval. ComEd recovers costs through a performance-based rate formula,
pursuant to EIMA. ComEd is required to file an update to the performance-based rate formula on an annual basis. PECO’s, BGE’s and DPL’s electric and gas distribution costs and Pepco’s and ACE’s electric distribution costs
are recovered through traditional rate case proceedings. In certain instances, the Utility Registrants use specific recovery mechanisms as approved by their respective regulatory agencies.

The following table outlines the state regulatory agencies and default service obligations for each of the Utility Registrants:



Regulatory AgencyDefault ServiceObligation-ElectricityDefault ServiceObligation-Natural GasComEdICCPOLRn/aPECOPAPUCDSPPGCBGEMDPSCSOSMBRPepcoDCPSC/MDPSCSOSn/aDPLDPSC/MDPSCSOSn/aACENJBPUBGSn/a







Retail customers participating in customer choice programs, and retail deliveries purchased from
competitive electric generation and natural gas suppliers (as a percentage of GWh and mmcf sales, respectively) for the Utility Registrants consisted of the following at December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014:



December 31, 2016Number of retail customers incustomer choice programs% of total retail customersCustomer choice programdeliveries as a % of retail sales(for the year ended)ElectricNatural gasElectricNatural gasElectricNatural gasComEd1,502,900n/a38%n/a72%n/aPECO587,20081,30036%16%70%26%BGE337,000151,00027%23%59%57%Pepco176,372n/a21%n/a65%n/aDPL78,99415615%0.1%51%28%ACE94,562n/a17%n/a47%n/a



December 31, 2015Number of retail customers incustomer choice programs% of total retail customersCustomer choice programdeliveries as a % of retail sales(for the year ended)ElectricNatural gasElectricNatural gasElectricNatural gasComEd(a)1,655,400n/a42%n/a76%n/aPECO563,40081,10035%16%70%25%BGE343,000154,00027%23%61%56%Pepco173,222n/a21%n/a65%n/aDPL77,60315915%0.1%51%31%ACE78,299n/a14%n/a45%n/a



December 31, 2014Number of retail customers incustomer choice programs% of total retail customersCustomer choice programdeliveries as a % of retail sales(for the year ended)ElectricNatural gasElectricNatural gasElectricNatural gasComEd2,426,900n/a63%n/a80%n/aPECO546,90078,40034%16%70%22%BGE364,000161,00029%25%60%53%Pepco179,524n/a22%n/a65%n/aDPL78,15315715%0.1%53%31%ACE86,780n/a16%n/a51%n/a



(a)In September 2015, the City of Chicago discontinued its participation in the customer choice program and began purchasing its electricity from ComEd. Approximately 670,000 customers were impacted by the City of
Chicago’s decision which resulted in the reduction in the number of customers participating in customer choice programs in 2015.

Procurement-Related Proceedings.The Utility Registrants’ electric supply for its customers is primarily procured through contracts as
required by the ICC, PAPUC, MDPSC, DCPSC, DPSC and NJBPU. The Utility Registrants procure electricity supply from various approved bidders, including Generation. Charges incurred for electric supply procured through contracts with Generation are
included in Purchased power from affiliates on the Utility Registrants’ Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income.







PECO’s, BGE’s and DPL’s natural gas supplies are purchased from a number of suppliers for
terms of up to three years. PECO, BGE and DPL have annual firm supply and transportation contracts of 132,000 mmcf, 128,000 mmcf and 58,000 mmcf, respectively. In addition, to supplement gas supply at times of heavy winter demands and in the event
of temporary emergencies, PECO, BGE and DPL have available storage capacity from the following sources:



Peak Natural Gas Sources (in mmcf)Liquefied NaturalGas FacilityPropane-Air PlantUnderground StorageService Agreements(a)PECO1,20015018,000BGE1,05655022,000DPL257n/a3,800



(a)Natural gas from underground storage represents approximately 28%, 46% and 34% of PECO’s, BGE’s and DPL’s 2016-2017 heating season planned supplies, respectively.

PECO, BGE and DPL have long-term interstate pipeline contracts and also participate in the interstate markets by releasing pipeline capacity or bundling
pipeline capacity with gas foroff-systemsales.Off-systemgas sales arelow-margindirect sales of gas to wholesale suppliers
of natural gas. Earnings from these activities are shared between the utilities and customers. PECO, BGE and DPL make these sales as part of a program to balance its supply and cost of natural gas.

Energy Efficiency Programs.The Utility Registrants are also allowed to recover costs associated with energy efficiency and demand response
programs. Each commission approved program seeks to meet mandated electric consumption reduction targets and implement demand response measures to reduce peak demand. The programs are designed to meet standards required by each respective regulatory
agency.

Capital Investment.The Utility Registrants’ businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments, primarily in
electric transmission and distribution and natural gas transportation and distribution facilities, to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of their systems. ComEd’s, PECO’s, BGE’s, Pepco’s, DPL’s and
ACE’s most recent estimates of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2017 are $2,200 million, $775 million, $925 million, $625 million, $375 million and $300 million, respectively.

ComEd, PECO, BGE, Pepco and DPL have AMI smart meter and smart grid deployment programs within their respective service territories to enhance their
distribution systems. PECO, BGE, Pepco and DPL have completed the installation and activation of smart meters in their respective service territories. ACE has yet to receive approval from the NJBPU to proceed with the installation of AMI smart
meters.

Transmission Services.The Utility Registrants provide unbundled transmission service under rates approved by FERC.
Under FERC’s open access transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, the Utility Registrants, as owners of transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at
cost-based rates. The Utility Registrants and their affiliates are required to comply with FERC’s Standards of Conduct regulation governing the communication ofnon-publictransmission information between
the transmission owner’s employees and wholesale merchant employees.

PJM is the regional grid operator and operates pursuant to FERC-approved
tariffs. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of, the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff). PJM operates the PJM energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls theday-to-dayoperations of the bulk power system for the PJM region. The Utility Registrants







are members of PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. The Utility Registrants and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their
transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are under the dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region-wide, open-access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM
transmission owners at rates based on the costs of transmission service.

ComEd’s transmission rates are established based on a formula that
was approved by FERC in January 2008. BGE’s, Pepco’s, DPL’s and ACE’s transmission rates are established based on a formula that was approved by FERC in April 2006. FERC’s orders establish the agreed-upon treatment of costs
and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on an annual basis.

PECO’s customers are charged for PECO’s PJM retail transmission services on a full and current basis through a Transmission Service Charge
(applicable to default service only) and through aNon-BypassableTransmission Charge (applicable to all distribution customers) in accordance with PECO’s approved distribution rates.

See Note 3—Regulatory Matters, Note 26—Segment Information of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information regarding transmission services.

Employees

As of December 31,
2016, Exelon and its subsidiaries had 34,396 employees in the following companies, of which 11,984 or 35% were covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs):



IBEW Local 15(a)IBEW Local 614(b)Other CBAsTotal EmployeesCovered by CBAsTotalEmployeesGeneration(c)1,640992,6354,37414,717ComEd3,777——3,7776,574PECO—1,310—1,3102,651BGE(d)————3,097PHI(e)——3313311,670Pepco(e)——1,0561,0561,466DPL(e)——631631871ACE(e)——399399595Other(f)65—411062,755Total5,4821,4095,09311,98434,396



(a)A separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15 covers approximately 62 employees in ComEd’s System Services Group and was renewed in 2016. Generation’s and ComEd’s separate CBAs with IBEW Local 15 will
expire in 2022.

(b)1,310 PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory are covered by CBAs with IBEW Local 614, both expiring in 2021. Additionally, Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an
agreement covering 99 employees, which was renewed in 2016 and expiring in 2019.

(c)During 2016, Generation finalized its CBA with the Security Officer union at Oyster Creek, expiring in 2022 and New Energy IUOE Local95-95A,which will expire in 2021. Also
during 2016, Pepco Energy Services was allocated to Generation with a total of 358 employees broken down as follows: 229 employees covered by CBAs and 129non-representedemployees. During 2015, Generation
finalized its CBA with Clinton Local 51 which will expire in 2020; its two CBAs with Local 369 at Mystic 7 and Mystic 8/9, both expiring in 2020; and four Security Officer unions at Braidwood, Byron, Clinton and TMI, all expiring between 2018 and
2021, respectively. During 2014, Generation finalized CBAs with TMI Local 777 and Oyster Creek Local 1289, expiring in 2019 and 2021, respectively and CENG finalized its CBA with Nine Mile Point which will expire in 2020. Additionally, during 2014,
Generation finalized CBAs with the Security Officer unions at Dresden, LaSalle, Limerick and Quad Cities, which expire between 2017 and 2018. Lastly, during 2014, an agreement was negotiated with Las Vegas District Energy and IUOE Local 501, which
will expire in 2018. During 2013, Generation finalized two3-yearagreements: New England ENEH, UWUA Local 369, which will expire in 2017.







(d)In January 2017, an election was held at BGE which resulted in union representation for approximately 1,400 employees. BGE and IBEW Local 410 will begin negotiations for an initial agreement which could result in some
modifications to wages, hours and other terms and conditions of employment. No agreement has been finalized to date and management cannot predict the outcome of such negotiations.

(e)PHI’s utility subsidiaries are parties to five collective bargaining agreements with four local unions. Collective bargaining agreements are generally renegotiated every three to five years. All of these collective
bargaining agreements were renegotiated in 2014 and were extended through various dates ranging from October 2018 through June 2020

(f)Other includes shared services employees at BSC.

Environmental Regulation

General

The Registrants are subject to comprehensive
and complex legislation regarding environmental matters by the federal government and various state and local jurisdictions in which they operate their facilities. The Registrants are also subject to regulations administered by the EPA and various
state and local environmental protection agencies. Federal, state and local regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water, and solid and hazardous waste disposal.

The Exelon Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the management of environmental matters. Exelon has a management team to address
environmental compliance and strategy, including the CEO; the Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Chief Sustainability Officer; the Corporate Environmental Strategy Director and the Environmental Regulatory Strategy Director, as well as
senior management of Generation, ComEd, PECO, BGE, Pepco, DPL and ACE. Performance of those individuals directly involved in environmental compliance and strategy is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual performance
review process. The Exelon Board of Directors has delegated to its Corporate Governance Committee the authority to oversee Exelon’s compliance with laws and regulations and its strategies and efforts to protect and improve the quality of the
environment, including Exelon’s climate change and sustainability policies and programs, as discussed in further detail below. The Exelon Board of Directors has also delegated to its Generation Oversight Committee the authority to oversee
environmental, health and safety issues relating to Generation. The respective Boards of ComEd, PECO, BGE, Pepco, DPL and ACE oversee environmental, health and safety issues related to these companies.

Air Quality

Air quality regulations promulgated by
the EPA and the various state and local environmental agencies in Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2),
nitrogen oxides (NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emissions sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelon’s subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Clean Air Act establishes a comprehensive
and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution from power plants.

See ITEM 7.—MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for additional information regarding clean air regulation in the forms of the CSAPR, the regulation of hazardous air pollutants from coal- andoil-firedelectric
generating facilities under MATS, and regulation of GHG emissions.

Water Quality

Under the Clean Water Act, NPDES permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the EPA or from the state environmental agency to
which the permit program has been delegated and must be renewed periodically. Certain of Generation’s power generation facilities







discharge industrial wastewater into waterways and are therefore subject to these regulations and operate under NPDES permits or pending applications for renewals of such permits after being
granted an administrative extension. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and regional agencies and compacts, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission.

Section316(b) of the Clean Water Act.Section 316(b) requires that the cooling water intake
structures at electric power plants reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts, and is implemented through state-level NPDES permit programs. All of Generation’s power generation facilities with cooling
water systems are subject to the regulations. Facilities without closed-cycle recirculating systems (e.g., cooling towers) are potentially most affected by any changes to the existing regulations. For Generation, those facilities are Calvert Cliffs,
Clinton, Dresden, Eddystone, Fairless Hills, Ginna, Gould Street, Handley, Mountain Creek, Mystic 7, Nine Mile Point Unit 1, Peach Bottom, Quad Cities, Riverside and Salem.

On October 14, 2014, the EPA’s final Section 316(b) rule became effective. The rule requires that a series of studies and analyses be
performed to determine the best technology available to minimize adverse impacts on aquatic life, followed by an implementation period for the selected technology. The timing of the various requirements for each facility is related to the status of
its current NPDES permit and the subsequent renewal period. There is no fixed compliance schedule, as this is left to the discretion of the state permitting director

Until the compliance requirements are determined by the applicable state permitting director on a site-specific basis for each plant, Generation cannot
estimate the effect that compliance with the rule will have on the operation of its generating facilities and its future results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. Should a state permitting director determine that a facility must
install cooling towers to comply with the rule, that facility’s economic viability could be called into question. However, the potential impact of the rule has been significantly reduced since the final rule does not mandate cooling towers as a
national standard and sets forth technologies that are presumptively compliant, and the state permitting director is required to apply a cost-benefit test and can take into consideration site-specific factors.

Pursuant to discussions with the NJDEP in 2010 regarding the application of Section 316(b) to Oyster Creek, Generation agreed to permanently cease
generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019, ten years before the expiration of its operating license in 2029. The agreement only applies to Oyster Creek based on its unique circumstances and does not set any precedent for the
ultimate compliance requirements for Section 316(b) at Exelon’s other plants.

New York Facilities. In July 2011, the New York
Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) issued a policy regarding the best available technology for cooling water intake structures. Through its policy, the DEC established closed-cycle cooling or its equivalent as the performance goal for
all existing facilities, but also provided that the DEC will select a feasible technology whose costs are not wholly disproportionate to the environmental benefits to be gained and allows for a site-specific determination where the entrainment
performance goal cannot be achieved. The Ginna and Nine Mile Point Unit 1 power generation facilities received renewals of their state water discharge permits in 2014.

Salem.In June 2001, the NJDEP issued a renewed NPDES permit for Salem, expiring in July 2006, allowing for the continued operation of
Salem with its existing cooling water system. In February 2006, PSEG filed a renewal application with the NJDEP allowing Salem to continue operating under its existing NPDES permit until a new permit is issued. On June 30, 2015, NJDEP issued a
draft NPDES permit for Salem. The draft permit does not require installation of cooling towers and allows Salem to







continue to operate utilizing the existing once-through cooling water system with certain required system modifications. On July 28, 2016, the NJDEP issued a final permit for Salem that did
not require the installation of cooling towers. However, the permit is being challenged by an environmental organization, and if successful, could result in additional costs for Clean Water Act compliance.

Solid and Hazardous Waste

CERCLA provides for
immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the EPA either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or
potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly,
jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These PRPs can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with anEPA-directedcleanup, may voluntarily settle with the EPA concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on
the NPL. Various states, including Delaware, District of Colombia, Illinois, Maryland, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, have also enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, RCRA governs treatment, storage and
disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted.

Generation, ComEd, PECO, BGE, Pepco, DPL and ACE
and their subsidiaries are, or are likely to become, parties to proceedings initiated by the EPA, state agencies and/or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including MGP sites, or may undertake to
investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third-party.

See Note 24—Commitments and
Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding solid and hazardous waste regulation and legislation.

Environmental Remediation

ComEd’s, PECO’s
and BGE’s environmental liabilities primarily arise from contamination at former MGP sites. ComEd, pursuant to an ICC order, and PECO, pursuant to settlements of natural gas distribution rate cases with the PAPUC, have anon-goingprocess to recover environmental remediation costs of the MGP sites through a provision within customer rates. While BGE does not have a rider for MGPclean-upcosts,
BGE has historically received recovery of actualclean-upcosts on a site-specific basis in distribution rates. The amount to be expended in 2017 at Exelon for compliance with environmental remediation related
to contamination at former MGP sites and other gas purification sites is expected to total $41 million, consisting of $35 million and $6 million respectively, at ComEd and PECO.

Generation’s environmental liabilities primarily arise from contamination at current and former generation and waste storage facilities. As of
December 31, 2016, Generation has established appropriate contingent liabilities for potential environmental remediation requirements including contamination attributable to low level radioactive residues at a storage and reprocessing facility
named Latty Avenue, and at a disposal facility named West Lake Landfill, both near St. Louis, Missouri related to operations conducted by Cotter Corporation, a former ComEd subsidiary.

The Utility Registrants also have environmental liabilities for remediation considerations. As of December 31, 2016, Generation has established
appropriate contingent liabilities for potential environmental remediation requirements.







In addition, Generation, ComEd, PECO, BGE, Pepco, DPL and ACE may be required to make significant
additional expenditures not presently determinable for other environmental remediation costs.

See Notes 3—Regulatory Matters and
24—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants’ environmental remediation efforts and related impacts to the Registrants’ results of
operations, cash flows and financial positions.

Global Climate Change

low-carbon

low-carbon

low-carbon

Climate Change Regulation.Exelon is or may become subject to climate change regulation or legislation at the Federal, regional and
state levels.

International Climate Change Regulation.At the international level, the United States is a Party to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The Parties to the UNFCCC adopted the Paris Agreement at the 21stsession of the UNFCCC Conference of the Parties (COP 21) on December 12,
2015. The Paris Agreement defines the UNFCCC’s objective of limiting the global temperature increase to 1.5°C abovepre-industriallevels. All Parties are required to develop their own national
emission reductions and to update those reductions at least every five years. The Developed Country Parties, including the United States, are required to take the lead by undertaking economy-wide absolute emission reduction targets. The United
States had previously submitted its national emission reductions to achieve a 2020 target of reducing net emissions to 17% below the 2005 level and to achieve net greenhouse gas emission reductions of 26%—28% below the 2005 level by 2025. The
United States has indicated that it intends to achieve these reductions through a variety of mechanisms, including regulations to cut carbon pollution from new and existing power plants. The Paris Agreement entered into force on November 4,
2016 the thirtieth day after the date on which at







least 55 Parties accounting for at least an estimated 55% of total global greenhouse gas emissions ratified the Agreement. The Agreement has not been ratified by the US Senate and it is uncertain
whether or not or to what extent the new Trump Administration will pursue the established target.

Federal Climate Change Legislation and
Regulation.It is highly uncertain that Federal legislation to reduce GHG emissions will be enacted. If such legislation is adopted, Exelon may incur costs either to further limit or offset the GHG emissions from its operations or to
procure emission allowances or credits.

Under the Obama Administration, the EPA proposed and finalized regulations for new and modified fossil-fuel
power plants under Section 111(b) of the Clean Air Act and Section 111(d) for existing fossil-fuel power plants. These regulations are currently being litigated. The 111(d) regulations, referred to as the Clean Power Plan, are currently subject to a
stay by the Supreme Court, pending conclusion of all litigation at both the D.C. Circuit and Supreme Court levels. The D.C. Circuit hearden bancoral argument in late September 2016, but has not yet issued its decision. Prior to the stay,
the Clean Power Plan had established GHG emission reduction targets for each state, with emission reductions slated to begin in 2022. State requirements to submit plans to EPA in September 2016 (or within two years if an extension was requested)
were placed in abeyance pending results of litigation.

President Trump’s election platform called for eliminating a number of EPA regulations,
including the Clean Power Plan. Due to the need to appoint and confirm key EPA officials as the Trump Administration begins to govern, the specific details of the Trump Administration’s plans to address the Clean Power Plan are not known. In
the interim, the D.C. Circuit continues its review of the regulation under existing litigation and is expected to issue its decision in the first half of 2017.

Due to current litigation and the need for the new Administration to develop its approach to dealing with the Clean Power plan, Exelon and Generation
cannot at this time predict the future of the Clean Power Plan or individual state responses to Clean Power Plan developments or how developments will impact their future financial positions, results of operations and cash flows.

Regional and State Climate Change Legislation and Regulation.

two-year

mid-Atlantic



On December 18, 2009, Pennsylvania issued the state’s final Climate Change Action Plan. The plan sets as a target a
30 percent reduction in GHG emissions by 2020. The Climate Change Advisory Committee continues to meet quarterly to review Climate Action Work Plans for the residential, commercial and industrial sectors. The Climate Change Action Plan does not
impose any requirements on Generation or PECO at this time.







non-governmental

Exelon’s Voluntary Climate Change Efforts. In a world increasingly concerned about global climate change and regulatory action to reduce
GHG, Exelon’slow-carbongenerating fleet is seen by management as a competitive advantage. Exelon remains one of the largest, lowest carbon electric generators in the United States: nuclear for base
load, natural gas for marginal and peak demand, hydro and pumped storage, and supplemental wind and solar renewables. As further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of GHG and air pollutants are promulgated, Exelon’slow-carbon,low-emissiongeneration fleet will position the company to benefit from its comparative advantage over other generation fleets.

Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards

Thirty-nine states and the District of Columbia have adopted some form of RPS requirement. Illinois, Pennsylvania, Maryland, the District of Columbia,
Delaware and New Jersey have laws specifically addressing energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States
Congress. Also, states that currently do not have RPS requirements may adopt such legislation in the future.

In Illinois, in accordance with
legislation in effect on December 31, 2016, the IPA’s Procurement Plans include the procurement of cost-effective renewable energy resources in amounts that equal or exceed a minimum target percentage of the total electricity that each
electric utility supplies to its eligible retail customers. The June 1, 2016 target renewable energy resources obligation for the utilities was at least 11.5%. This obligation increases by at least 1.5% each year thereafter to an ultimate
target of at least 25% by June 1, 2025. All goals are subject to rate impact criteria set forth by Illinois legislation. As of December 31, 2016, ComEd had purchased renewable energy resources or equivalents, such as RECs, in accordance
with the IPA Procurement Plan. ComEd currently retires all RECs upon transfer and acceptance. ComEd is permitted to recover procurement costs of RECs from retail customers withoutmark-upthrough rates.

In accordance with FEJA that takes effect on June 1, 2017, beginning with the plan or plans to be implemented in the 2017 delivery year, the IPA
shall develop a long term renewable resources procurement plan (LT Plan). The RPS target percentages for the overall service territory have not changed through June 1, 2025 (11.5% of retail load by June 1 2016 growing to 25% by
June 1 2025) although FEJA extended the 25% RPS target to delivery years after 2025. Currently, each Retail







Electric Supplier and each utility is responsible for the renewable resource obligation for the customers to which it supplies power. Over time, this will change and the utility will procure
renewable resources based on the retail load of substantially all customers in its service territory. For the delivery year beginning June 1, 2017, the LT Plan shall include cost effective renewable energy resources procured by the utility for
the retail load the utility supplies and for 50% of the retail customer load supplied by Retail Electric Suppliers in the utility service territory on February 28, 2017. Utility procurement for RES supplied retail customer load will
increase to 75% June 1, 2018 and to 100% beginning June 1, 2019.

Originally passed November 30, 2004 the AEPS Act became effective
for PECO on January 1, 2011. During 2016, PECO was required to supply approximately 5.5% of electric energy generated from Tier I alternative energy resources (including solar, wind power,low-impacthydropower, geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy, coal mine methane and black liquor generated within Pennsylvania), as measured in AECs, through May 31, 2016 and subsequently 6.0% beginning
June 1, 2016 and continuing through May 31, 2017. PECO is also required to supply 8.2% of electric energy generated from Tier II alternative energy resources (including waste coal, demand-side management, large-scale hydropower, municipal
solid waste, generation of electricity utilizing wood andby-productsof the pulping process and wood, distributed generation systems and integrated combined coal gasification technology), as measured in AECs,
effective June 1, 2015 and continuing through May 31, 2020. The compliance requirements will incrementally escalate to 8.0% for Tier I and 10.0% for Tier II by 2021. In order to comply with these requirements, PECO purchases its AECs
through its DSP Program full requirement contracts with various counterparties, including Generation. PECO also obtains AECs of Solar Tier I annually from long term agreements with various counterparties, including Generation, and balancing amounts
of Tier 1non-solarand Tier II through broker purchases.

Section 7-703of the Public Utilities Article in Maryland sets forth the RPS requirement, which applies to
all retail electricity sales in Maryland by electricity suppliers. The RPS requirement requires that suppliers obtain a specified percentage of the electricity it sells from Tier 1 sources (solar, wind, biomass, methane, geothermal, ocean, fuel
cell, small hydroelectric, and poultry litter) and Tier 2 sources (hydroelectric, other than pump storage generation, andwaste-to-energy). TheRPS requirement
began in 2006, requiring that suppliers procure 1.0% and 2.5% from Tier 1 and Tier 2 sources, respectively, escalating in 2022 to 22.0% from Tier 1 sources, including at least 2.0% from solar energy, and a phase out of Tier 2 resource options
by 2022. In 2015, 10.5% was required from Tier 1 renewable sources, including at least 0.5% derived from solar energy and 2.5% from Tier 2 renewable sources. BGE, Pepco and DPL are subject to requirements established by the Public
Utilities Article in Maryland related to the use of alternative energy resources. In addition, the wholesale suppliers that supply power to BGE, Pepco and DPL through SOS procurement auctions have the obligation, by contract with BGE, Pepco and DPL,
to meet the RPS requirements.

Section 34-1432 of the D.C. Code sets forth the RPS requirement, which applies to all retail electricity sales in the
District of Columbia by electricity suppliers. The RPS requirement requires that suppliers obtain a specified percentage of the electricity it sells from Tier 1 sources (solar, wind, certain qualifying biomass, methane from anaerobia decomposition
of organic materials in landfill or wastewater treatment plant, geothermal, ocean, and fuel cell) and Tier 2 sources (hydroelectric (other than pumped storage generation), certain qualifying biomass and waste-to-energy). The RPS requirement began in
2007, with standards increasing annually. For 2017, the RPS requires that suppliers procure 13.1% and 2.5% from Tier 1 and Tier 2 sources, respectively, with not less than 0.95% solar, and escalating in 2023 to 20.0% from Tier 1 sources, including
at least 2.5% from solar energy, and a phase out of Tier 2 resource options. In 2015 the law was amended to extend the RPS requirements to 2032, at which time not less than 50% is required from Tier 1 renewable sources, including at least 5.0%
derived from solar energy. Tier 2 renewable sources remain phased out. The wholesale suppliers that supply power to Pepco through SOS procurement auctions have the obligation, by contract with Pepco, to meet the RPS requirements.







Similar to ComEd, PECO, BGE, Pepco, DPL and ACE, Generation’s retail electric business must source a portion of the electric load it serves in many
of the states in which it does business from renewable resources or approved equivalents such as RECs. Potential regulation and legislation regarding renewable and alternative energy resources could increase the pace of development of wind and other
renewable/alternative energy resources, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity in some markets where Exelon operates generation assets. At the same time, such developments may present some opportunities for
sales of Generation’s renewable power, including from wind, solar, hydroelectric and landfill gas.

See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the
Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on renewable portfolio standards.







Executive Officers of the Registrants as of February 13, 2017

Exelon





NameAgePositionPeriod

Crane, Christopher M.58Chief Executive Officer, Exelon2012 - Present

Chairman, ComEd, PECO & BGE2012 - Present

Chairman, PHI2016 - Present

President, Exelon2008 - Present

President, Generation2008 - 2013

Chief Operating Officer, Exelon2008 - 2012

Cornew, Kenneth W.51Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon;2013 - Present

President and CEO, Generation2013 - Present

Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon2012 - 2013

President and Chief Executive Officer, Constellation2012 - 2013

Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team2008 - 2012

O’Brien, Denis P.56Senior Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, Exelon Utilities2012 - Present

Vice Chairman, ComEd, PECO, BGE2012 - Present

Vice Chairman, PHI2016 - Present

Chief Executive Officer, PECO; Executive Vice President, Exelon2007 - 2012

President and Director, PECO2003 - 2012

Pramaggiore, Anne R.58Chief Executive Officer, ComEd2012 - Present

President, ComEd2009 - Present

Chief Operating Officer, ComEd2009 - 2012

Adams, Craig L.64President and Chief Executive Officer, PECO2012 - Present

Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PECO2007 - 2012

Butler, Calvin G.47Chief Executive Officer, BGE2014 - Present

Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, BGE2013 - 2014

Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Exelon2011 - 2013

Velazquez, David M.57President and Chief Executive Officer, PHI2016 - Present

President and Chief Executive Officer, Pepco, DPL and ACE2009 - Present

Executive Vice President, Pepco Holdings, Inc.2009 - 2016

Von Hoene Jr., William A.63Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer, Exelon2012 - Present

Executive Vice President, Finance and Legal, Exelon2009 - 2012

Thayer, Jonathan W.45Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon2012 - Present

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Constellation Energy; Treasurer, Constellation Energy2008 - 2012

Aliabadi, Paymon54Executive Vice President and Chief Enterprise Risk Officer, Exelon2013 - Present

Managing Director, Gleam Capital Management2012 - 2013

DesParte, Duane M.53Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon2008 - Present







Generation





NameAgePositionPeriod

Cornew, Kenneth W.51Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon;2013 - Present

President and CEO, Generation2013 - Present

Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon2012 - 2013

President and Chief Executive Officer, Constellation2012 - 2013

Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team2008 - 2012

Pacilio, Michael J.56Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Generation2015 - Present

President, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation2010 - 2015

Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear

Hanson, Bryan C.51President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Exelon Generation2015 - Present

Nigro, Joseph52Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, Constellation2013 - Present

Senior Vice President, Portfolio Management and Strategy2012 - 2013

Vice President, Structuring and Portfolio Management, Exelon Power Team2010 - 2012

DeGregorio, Ronald54Senior Vice President, Generation; President, Exelon Power2012 - Present

Chief Integration Officer, Exelon2011 - 2012

Wright, Bryan P.50Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Generation2013 - Present

Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance, Exelon2012 - 2013

Chief Accounting Officer, Constellation Energy2009 - 2012

Vice President and Controller, Constellation Energy2008 - 2012

Bauer, Matthew N.40Vice President and Controller, Generation2016 - Present

Vice President and Controller, BGE2014 - 2016

Vice President of Power Finance, Exelon Power2012 - 2014

Director, FP&A and Retail, Constellation2012 - 2012

Executive Director, Corporate Development, Constellation2009 - 2012







ComEd



NameAgePositionPeriodPramaggiore, Anne R.58Chief Executive Officer, ComEd2012 - PresentPresident, ComEd2009 - PresentChief Operating Officer, ComEd2009 - 2012Donnelly, Terence R.56Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd2012 - PresentExecutive Vice President, Operations, ComEd2009 - 2012Trpik Jr., Joseph R.47Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, ComEd2009 - PresentJensen, Val61Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd2012 - PresentVice President, Marketing and Environmental Programs, ComEd2008 - 2012Gomez, Veronica47Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy and General Counsel, ComEd2017 - PresentVice President and Deputy General Counsel, Litigation, Exelon2012 - 2017Marquez Jr., Fidel55Senior Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, ComEd2012 - PresentSenior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd2009 - 2012Brookins, Kevin B.55Senior Vice President, Strategy & Administration, ComEd2012 - PresentVice President, Operational Strategy and Business Intelligence, ComEd2010 - 2012McGuire, Timothy M.58Senior Vice President, Distribution Operations, ComEd2016 - PresentVice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd2010 - 2016Kozel, Gerald J.44Vice President, Controller, ComEd2013 - PresentAssistant Corporate Controller, Exelon2012 - 2013Director of Financial Reporting and Analysis, Exelon2009 - 2012







PECO



NameAgePositionPeriodAdams, Craig L.64President and Chief Executive Officer, PECO2012 - PresentSenior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PECO2007 - 2012Barnett, Phillip S.53Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PECO2007 - PresentTreasurer, PECO2012 - PresentInnocenzo, Michael A.51Senior Vice President and Chief Operations Officer, PECO2012 - PresentVice President, Distribution System Operations and Smart Grid/Smart Meter, PECO2010 - 2012Webster Jr., Richard G.55Vice President, Regulatory Policy and Strategy, PECO2012 - PresentDirector of Rates and Regulatory Affairs2007 - 2012Murphy, Elizabeth A.57Senior Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO2016 - PresentVice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO2012 - 2016Director, Governmental & External Affairs, PECO2007 - 2012Jiruska, Frank J.56Vice President, Customer Operations, PECO2013 - PresentDiaz Jr., Romulo L.70Vice President and General Counsel, PECO2012 - PresentVice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO2009 - 2012Bailey, Scott A.40Vice President and Controller, PECO2012 - PresentAssistant Controller, Generation2011 - 2012







BGE



NameAgePositionPeriodButler, Calvin G.47Chief Executive Officer, BGE2014 - PresentSenior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, BGE2013 - 2014Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Exelon2011 - 2013Woerner, Stephen J.49President, BGE2014 - PresentChief Operating Officer, BGE2012 - PresentSenior Vice President, BGE2009 - 2014Vice President and Chief Integration Officer, Constellation Energy2011 - 2012Case, Mark D.55Vice President, Strategy and Regulatory Affairs, BGE2012 - PresentSenior Vice President, Strategy and Regulatory Affairs, BGE2007 - 2012Biagiotti, Robert D.47Vice President, Customer Operations and Chief Customer Officer, BGE2015 - PresentVice President, Gas Distribution, BGE2011 - 2015Gahagan, Daniel P.63Vice President and General Counsel, BGE2007 - PresentVahos, David M.44Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, BGE2016 - PresentVice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, BGE2014 - 2016Vice President and Controller, BGE2012 - 2014Executive Director, Audit, Constellation2010 - 2012Holmes, Andrew W.48Vice President and Controller, BGE2016 - PresentDirector, Generation Accounting, Exelon2013 - 2016Director, Derivatives and Technical Accounting, Exelon2008 - 2013Núñez, Alexander G.45Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, BGE2016 - PresentVice President, Governmental and External Affairs, BGE2013 - 2016Director, State Affairs, BGE2012 - 2013







PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE



NameAgePositionPeriodVelazquez, David M.57President and Chief Executive Officer, PHI2016 - PresentExecutive Vice President, Pepco Holdings, Inc.2009 - 2016President and Chief Executive Officer, Pepco, DPL and ACE2009 - PresentAnthony, J. Tyler52Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE2016 - PresentSenior Vice President, Distribution Operations, ComEd2010 - 2016Kinzel, Donna J.49Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE2016 - PresentVice President, Treasurer and Chief Risk Officer, Pepco Holdings2012 - PresentBonney, Paul R.58Senior Vice President, Legal and Regulatory Strategy, PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE2016 - PresentSenior Vice President and General Counsel, Constellation Energy2012 - 2016Parker, Kenneth J.54Senior Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE2016 - PresentSenior Vice President, Government Affairs and Corporate Citizenship, Pepco Holdings, Inc.2012 - 2016Stark, Wendy E.44Vice President and General Counsel, PHI, Pepco DPL and ACE2016 - PresentDeputy General Counsel, Pepco Holdings, Inc.2012 - PresentMcGowan, Kevin M.55Vice President, Regulatory Policy and Strategy2016 - PresentVice President, Regulatory Affairs, Pepco Holdings, Inc.2012 - 2016Aiken, Robert M.50Vice President and Controller, PHI, Pepco, DPL and ACE2016 - PresentVice President and Controller, Generation2012 - 2016Executive Director and Assistant Controller, Constellation2011 - 2012



