ITEM 1.BUSINESS



General



Corporate Structure and Business and Other Information



Exelon, incorporated in Pennsylvania in February 1999, is a utility services holding company engaged, through Generation, in the energy generation business, and through ComEd, PECO and BGE, in the energy delivery
businesses discussed below. Exelon’s principal executive offices are located at 10 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603, and its telephone number is 312-394-7398.



Generation



Generation’s integrated business consists of its owned and
contracted electric generating facilities and investments in generation ventures that are marketed through its leading customer-facing activities. These customer-facing activities include, wholesale energy marketing operations and its competitive
retail customer supply of electric and natural gas products and services, including renewable energy products, risk management services and natural gas exploration and production activities. Generation has six reportable segments consisting of the
Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, New England, New York, ERCOT and Other Regions.



Generation was formed in 2000 as a Pennsylvania limited liability company. Generation began operations as a result of a corporate restructuring, effective January 1, 2001, in which Exelon separated its
generation and other competitive businesses from its regulated energy delivery businesses at ComEd and PECO. Generation’s principal executive offices are located at 300 Exelon Way, Kennett Square, Pennsylvania 19348, and its telephone number is
610-765-5959.



ComEd



ComEd’s energy delivery business consists of the purchase and
regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago.



ComEd was organized in the State of Illinois in 1913 as a result of the
merger of Cosmopolitan Electric Company into the original corporation named Commonwealth Edison Company, which was incorporated in 1907. ComEd’s principal executive offices are located at 440 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60605, and
its telephone number is 312-394-4321.



PECO



PECO’s energy delivery business consists of the
purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of
natural gas and the provision of natural gas distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia.



PECO was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1929. PECO’s principal executive offices are located at 2301 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
19103, and its telephone number is 215-841-4000.



BGE



BGE’s energy delivery business consists of the
purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in central Maryland,






including the City of Baltimore, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of gas distribution services to retail customers in central Maryland, including
the City of Baltimore.



BGE was incorporated in Maryland in
1906. BGE’s principal executive offices are located at 110 West Fayette Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21201, and its telephone number is 410-234-5000.



Operating Segments



See Note 24 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Exelon’s operating segments.



Merger with Constellation Energy Group, Inc.



On March 12, 2012, Exelon completed the merger contemplated by
the Merger Agreement among Exelon, Bolt Acquisition Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon (Merger Sub), and Constellation. As a result of that merger, Merger Sub was merged into Constellation (the Initial Merger) and Constellation became
a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon. Following the completion of the Initial Merger, Exelon and Constellation completed a series of internal corporate organizational restructuring transactions. Constellation merged with and into Exelon, with Exelon
continuing as the surviving corporation (the Upstream Merger). Simultaneously with the Upstream Merger, Constellation’s interest in RF HoldCo LLC, which holds Constellation’s interest in BGE, was transferred to Exelon Energy Delivery
Company, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon that also owns Exelon’s interests in ComEd and PECO. Following the Upstream Merger and the transfer of RF HoldCo LLC, Exelon contributed to Generation certain subsidiaries, including those with
generation and customer supply operations that were acquired from Constellation as a result of the Initial Merger and the Upstream Merger. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the
Constellation transaction.



Generation



Generation, one of the largest competitive electric
generation companies in the United States as measured by owned and contracted MW, physically delivers and markets power across multiple geographic regions through its customer-facing business, Constellation. Generation operates in well-developed
energy markets and employs an integrated hedging strategy to manage commodity price volatility. Its generation fleet, including its nuclear plants which consistently operate at high capacity factors, also provide geographic and supply source
diversity. These factors help Generation mitigate the current challenging conditions in competitive energy markets. Generation operates as an integrated business, leveraging its owned and contracted electric generation capacity to market and sell
power to wholesale and retail customers. Generation’s customers include distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, financial institutions, and commercial, industrial, governmental, and residential customers in competitive markets.
Generation also sells natural gas and renewable energy and other energy-related products and services, and engages in natural gas exploration and production activities.



Generation is a public utility under the Federal Power Act and is
subject to FERC’s exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. Under the Federal Power Act, FERC has the authority to grant or deny market-based rates for
sales of energy, capacity and ancillary services to ensure that such sales are just and reasonable. FERC’s jurisdiction over ratemaking also includes the authority to suspend the market-based rates of utilities (including Generation, which is a
public utility as FERC defines that term) and set cost-based rates should FERC find that its previous grant of market-based rates authority is no longer just and reasonable. Other matters subject to FERC jurisdiction include, but are not limited to,
third-party financings; review of mergers; dispositions of jurisdictional facilities and acquisitions of securities of






another public utility or an existing operational generating facility; affiliate transactions; intercompany financings and cash management arrangements; certain internal corporate
reorganizations; and certain holding company acquisitions of public utility and holding company securities. Additionally, ERCOT is not subject to regulation by FERC but performs a similar function in Texas to that performed by RTOs in markets
regulated by FERC. Specific operations of Generation are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies, including the NRC and Federal and state environmental protection agencies. Additionally,
Generation is subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the NERC, with the approval of FERC.



RTOs and ISOs exist in a number of regions to provide transmission service across multiple transmission systems. PJM, MISO, ISO-NE and SPP, have
been approved by FERC as RTOs, and CAISO and ISO-NY have been approved as ISOs. These entities are responsible for regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability,
market monitoring, the scheduling of physical power sales brokered through ICE and NYMEX and the elimination or reduction of redundant transmission charges imposed by multiple transmission providers when wholesale customers take transmission service
across several transmission systems.



Significant Acquisitions



Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One.On September 30, 2011, Exelon announced the completion of its acquisition of all of the interests in Antelope Valley, a 230-MW solar photovoltaic (PV) project under development in northern Los Angeles County, California, from First Solar, Inc.,
which is developing, building, operating, and maintaining the project. The first portion of the project began operations in December 2012, with six additional blocks coming online in 2013. Exelon has been informed by First Solar of issues relating
to delays in the certification of certain components relating to the final two blocks of the project, which will delay commercial operation of these two blocks until the first half of 2014. The delay will not have a material financial effect on
Exelon. Exelon expects the project to be in full commercial operation in the first half of 2014. The acquisition supports the Exelon commitment to renewable energy as part of Exelon 2020. The project has a 25-year PPA, approved by the CPUC, with
Pacific Gas & Electric Company for the full output of the plant. Upon completion, the facility will add 230 MWs to Generation’s renewable generation fleet. Total capitalized costs for the facility are expected to be approximately $1.1
billion. Total capitalized costs incurred through December 31, 2013 were approximately $968 million.



Wolf Hollow Generating Station.On August 24, 2011, Generation completed the acquisition of all of the equity interests of
Wolf Hollow, LLC (Wolf Hollow), a combined-cycle natural gas-fired power plant in north Texas, for a purchase price of $311 million which increased Generation’s owned capacity within the ERCOT power market by 720 MWs.



See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information on the above acquisitions.



Significant
Dispositions



Maryland Clean Coal
Stations.On November 30, 2012, a subsidiary of Generation sold the Brandon Shores generating station and H.A. Wagner generating station in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, and the C.P. Crane generating station in Baltimore County,
Maryland to Raven Power Holdings LLC, a subsidiary of Riverstone Holdings LLC to comply with certain of the regulatory approvals required by the merger, for net proceeds of approximately $371 million, which resulted in a pre-tax loss of $272
million. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.






Generating Resources



At December 31, 2013, the generating resources of Generation
consisted of the following:



Type of CapacityMWOwned generation
assets(a)Nuclear17,263Fossil12,165Renewable (including Hydroelectric)(b)3,710Owned generation assets33,138Long-term power purchase contracts(c)9,426Investment in CENG(d)1,999Total generating resources44,563



(a)See “Fuel” for sources of fuels used in electric generation.

(b)Includes equity method investment in certain generating facilities.

(c)Excludes contracts with CENG. See Long-Term Power Purchase Contracts table in this section for additional information.

(d)Generation owns a 50.01% interest in CENG, a joint venture with EDF. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Generation and Note 25—Related Party Transactions of the Combined
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Generation has six reportable segments, the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, New England, New York, ERCOT and Other Regions, representing the different geographical areas in which Generation’s customer-facing activities
are conducted and where Generation’s generating resources are located.



•Mid-Atlantic represents operations in the eastern half of PJM, which includes Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware, the District
of Columbia and parts of North Carolina (approximately 37% of capacity).



•Midwest represents operations in the western half of PJM, which includes portions of Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky and Tennessee; and the United
States footprint of MISO excluding MISO’s Southern Region, which covers all or most of North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin, and the remaining parts of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio not covered by PJM; and
parts of Montana, Missouri and Kentucky (approximately 34% of capacity).



•New England represents the operations within ISO-NE covering the states of Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont
(approximately 8% of capacity).



•New York represents the operations within ISO-NY, which covers the state of New York in its entirety (approximately 3% of capacity).



•ERCOT represents operations within Electric Reliability Council of Texas, covering most of the state of Texas (approximately 12% of capacity).



•Other Regions is an aggregate of regions not considered individually significant (approximately 6% of capacity).



Nuclear Facilities



Generation has ownership interests in eleven nuclear generating
stations currently in service, consisting of 19 units with an aggregate of 17,263 MW of capacity. Generation wholly owns all of its nuclear generating stations, except for Quad Cities Generating Station (75% ownership), Peach Bottom Generating
Station (50% ownership) and Salem Generating Station (Salem) (42.59% ownership), which are consolidated on Exelon’s financial statements relative to its proportionate ownership interest in each unit. Generation’s nuclear generating
stations are all operated by






Generation, with the exception of the two units at Salem, which are operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC (PSEG Nuclear), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of PSEG. In 2013 and 2012, electric supply
(in GWh) generated from the nuclear generating facilities was 57% and 53%, respectively, of Generation’s total electric supply, which also includes fossil, hydroelectric and renewable generation and electric supply purchased for resale. The
majority of this output was dispatched to support Generation’s wholesale and retail power marketing activities. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for further discussion
of Generation’s electric supply sources.



Constellation Energy
Nuclear Group, Inc.



Generation also owns a 50.01%
interest in CENG, a joint venture with EDF. CENG is governed by a board of ten directors, five of which are appointed by Generation and five by EDF. CENG owns and operates a total of five nuclear generating facilities on three sites, Calvert
Cliffs, Ginna and Nine Mile Point. CENG’s ownership share in the total capacity of these units is 3,998 MW. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES for additional information on these sites.



On July 29, 2013, Exelon, Generation and subsidiaries of Generation entered into a Master Agreement with EDF, EDF
Inc. (EDFI) (a subsidiary of EDF) and CENG. The Master Agreement contemplates that the parties will execute a series of additional agreements at a closing that will occur following the receipt of regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other
customary closing conditions. Exelon currently expects that the closing will occur early in the second quarter of 2014.



At the closing, Generation, CENG and subsidiaries of CENG will execute a Nuclear Operating Services Agreement pursuant to which Generation will
operate the CENG nuclear generation fleet owned by CENG subsidiaries and provide corporate and administrative services for the remaining life of the CENG nuclear plants as if they were a part of the Generation nuclear fleet, subject to EDFI’s
rights as a member of CENG. CENG will reimburse Generation for its direct and allocated costs for such services. The Nuclear Operating Services Agreement will replace the SSA. At the closing, Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station, a subsidiary of CENG,
will also assign to Generation its obligations as Operator of Nine Mile Point Unit 2 under an operating agreement with the co-owner. In addition, at the closing the PSAA will be amended and extended until the complete and permanent cessation of
operation of the CENG generation plants.



At closing,
Generation will make a $400 million loan to CENG bearing interest at 5.25% per annum, payable out of specified available cash flows of CENG and, in any event, payable upon settlement of the Put Option Agreement discussed below, if the put
option is exercised, or payable upon the maturity date of the note (which will be 20 years from the closing), whichever occurs first. Immediately following receipt of the proceeds of such loan, CENG will make a $400 million special distribution to
EDFI. The parties will also execute a Fourth Amended and Restated Operating Agreement for CENG, pursuant to which, among other things, CENG will commit to make preferred distributions to Generation (after repayment of the $400 million loan)
quarterly out of specified available cash flows, until Generation has received aggregate distributions of $400 million plus a return of 8.5% per annum from the date of the special distribution to EDFI.



Generation and EDFI will also enter into a Put Option Agreement at
closing pursuant to which EDFI will have the option, exercisable beginning in 2016 and thereafter until June 30, 2022, to sell its 49.99% interest in CENG to Generation for a fair market value price determined by agreement of the parties, or
absent agreement, a third party arbitration process. The appraisers determining fair market value of EDF’s 49.99% interest in CENG under the Put Option Agreement are instructed to take into account all rights and obligations under the CENG
Operating Agreement, including Generation’s rights with respect to any unpaid aggregate preferred distributions and the related return, and the value of Generation’s rights to other distributions. The beginning of the exercise period will
be accelerated if






Exelon’s affiliates cease to own a majority of CENG and exercise a related right to terminate the Nuclear Operating Services Agreement. In addition, under limited circumstances, the period
for exercise of the put option may be extended for 18 months.



Generation will execute an Indemnity Agreement pursuant to which Generation will indemnify EDF and its affiliates against third party claims that
may arise from any future nuclear incident (as defined in the Price Anderson Act) in connection with the CENG nuclear plants or their operations. Exelon will guarantee Generation’s obligations under this indemnity.



CENG owns 100% of four nuclear units in Maryland and New York and 82%
of Nine Mile Point Unit 2 in New York. Generation currently has an agreement under which it is purchasing 85% of the nuclear plant output owned by CENG that is not sold to third parties under pre-existing firm and unit contingent PPAs through 2014.
Beginning on January 1, 2015 and continuing to the end of the life of the respective plants, Generation will purchase on a unit contingent basis 50.01% of the nuclear plant output owned by CENG, and EDF will purchase on a unit contingent basis
49.99% of the nuclear plant output owned by CENG (EDF PPA). This agreement will continue to be effective and is not affected by the Master Agreement, except that if the put option under the Master Agreement is exercised, then the EDF PPA would
transfer to Generation upon the completion of the Put Option Agreement transaction.



Currently, Exelon and Generation account for its investment in CENG under the equity method of accounting. The transfer of the operational control to Exelon and Generation will result in Exelon and Generation being
required to consolidate the financial position and results of operations of CENG. When that accounting change occurs, Exelon and Generation will derecognize its equity method investment in CENG and will record all assets, liabilities and the
non-controlling interest in CENG at fair value on Exelon and Generation’s balance sheets. Any difference between the former carrying value and newly recorded fair value at that date will be recognized as a gain or loss upon consolidation, which
could be material to Exelon’s and Generation’s results of operations. See Note 5—Investment in CENG of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding CENG.



Nuclear Operations.Capacity factors, which are
significantly affected by the number and duration of refueling and non-refueling outages, can have a significant impact on Generation’s results of operations. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can
negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services that its business requires. Generation’s operations from its nuclear plants have historically had minimal environmental impact and the plants have a safe operating history.



During 2013 and 2012, the nuclear generating facilities operated by
Generation achieved capacity factors of 94.1% and 92.7%, respectively. Generation manages its scheduled refueling outages to minimize their duration and to maintain high nuclear generating capacity factors, resulting in a stable generation base for
Generation’s wholesale and retail marketing and trading activities. During scheduled refueling outages, Generation performs maintenance and equipment upgrades in order to minimize the occurrence of unplanned outages and to maintain safe,
reliable operations.



In addition to the rigorous
maintenance and equipment upgrades performed by Generation during scheduled refueling outages, Generation has extensive operating and security procedures in place to ensure the safe operation of the nuclear units. Generation has extensive safety
systems in place to protect the plant, personnel and surrounding area in the unlikely event of an accident.



Regulation of Nuclear Power Generation.Generation is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC with respect to the operation of its
nuclear generating stations, including the licensing for operation of each unit. The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations to continuing review and regulation covering, among other things, operations, maintenance, emergency planning, security and
environmental and radiological aspects of those stations. As part of its reactor oversight process, the NRC continuously






assesses unit performance indicators and inspection results, and communicates its assessment on a semi-annual basis. As of December 31, 2013, the NRC categorized Dresden units 2 and 3,
LaSalle unit 2, and Clinton in the Regulatory Response Column, which is the second highest of five performance bands. All other units operated by Generation are categorized in the Licensee Response Column as of December 31, 2013, which is the
highest performance band. On January 1, 2014, Dresden units 2 and 3 returned to the Licensee Response Column. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke operating licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act,
the regulations under such Act or the terms of the operating licenses. Changes in regulations by the NRC may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures for nuclear generating facilities and/or increased operating costs of nuclear
generating units.



On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced
a 9.0 magnitude earthquake and ensuing tsunami that seriously damaged the nuclear units at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which are operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co. In July 2011, an NRC Task Force formed in the aftermath of the
Fukushima Daiichi events issued a report of its review of the accident, including recommendations for future regulatory action by the NRC to be taken in the near and longer term. The Task Force’s report concluded that nuclear reactors in the
United States are operating safely and do not present an imminent risk to public health and safety. The NRC and its staff have issued orders and implementation guidance for commercial reactor licensees operating in the United States. The NRC and its
staff are continuing to evaluate additional requirements. For additional information on the NRC actions related to the Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and the industry’s response, see ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—Executive Overview.



Licenses.Generation has 40-year operating licenses from the NRC for each of its nuclear units and has received 20-year operating license renewals for Peach Bottom Units 2 and 3, Dresden Units
2 and 3, Quad Cities Units 1 and 2, Oyster Creek and Three Mile Island Unit 1. Additionally, PSEG has 40-year operating licenses from the NRC and has received 20-year operating license renewals for Salem Units 1 and 2. On December 8, 2010,
Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. The following table summarizes the current operating license expiration dates for Generation’s nuclear facilities in
service:



StationUnitIn-ServiceDate(a)Current LicenseExpirationBraidwood(b)119882026219882027Byron(b)119852024219872026Clinton119872026Dresden(c)219702029319712031LaSalle119842022219842023Limerick(d)119862024219902029Oyster Creek(c)(e)119692029Peach Bottom(c)219742033319742034Quad Cities(c)119732032219732032Salem(c)119772036219812040Three Mile Island(c)119742034








(a)Denotes year in which nuclear unit began commercial operations.

(b)On May 29, 2013, Generation submitted applications to the NRC to extend the operating licenses of Braidwood Units 1 and 2 and Byron Units 1 and 2 by 20 years.

(c)Stations for which the NRC has issued a renewed operating licenses.

(d)In June 2011, Generation submitted applications to the NRC to extend the operating licenses of Limerick Units 1 and 2 by 20 years.

(e)In December 2010, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019.



Generation expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals
for the remaining nuclear units. The operating license renewal process takes approximately four to five years from the commencement of the renewal process until completion of the NRC’s review. The NRC review process takes approximately two
years from the docketing of an application. Each requested license renewal is expected to be for 20 years beyond the original license expiration. Depreciation provisions are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which reflect the
actual and assumed renewal of operating licenses for all of Generation’s operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek.



In August 2012, Generation entered into an operating services agreement with the Omaha Public Power District (OPPD) to provide operational and
managerial support services for the Fort Calhoun Station and a licensing agreement for use of the Exelon Nuclear Management Model. The terms for both agreements are 20 years. OPPD will continue to own the plant and remain the NRC licensee.



Nuclear Uprate Program.Generation is engaged
in individual projects as part of a planned power uprate program across its nuclear fleet. When economically viable, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new materials and application of expertise gained from a
half-century of nuclear power operations. Based on ongoing reviews, the nuclear uprate implementation plan was adjusted during 2013 to cancel certain projects. The Measurement Uncertainty Recapture uprate projects at the Dresden and Quad Cities
nuclear stations were cancelled as a result of the cost of additional plant modifications identified during final design work which, when combined with then current market conditions, made the projects not economically viable. Additionally, the
market conditions prompted Generation to cancel the previously deferred extended power uprate projects at the LaSalle and Limerick nuclear stations. During 2013, Generation recorded a pre-tax charge to operating and maintenance expense and interest
expense of approximately $111 million and $8 million, respectively, to accrue remaining costs and reverse the previously capitalized costs.



Under the nuclear uprate program, Generation has placed into service projects representing 316 MWs of new nuclear generation at a cost of $952
million, which has been capitalized to property, plant and equipment on Exelon’s and Generation’s consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2013, Generation has capitalized $203 million to construction work in progress within
property, plant and equipment for nuclear uprate projects expected to be placed in service by the end of 2016, consisting of 200 MWs of new nuclear generation, that are in the installation phase across four nuclear stations; Peach Bottom in
Pennsylvania and Byron, Braidwood and Dresden in Illinois. The remaining spend associated with these projects is expected to be approximately $300 million through the end of 2016. Generation believes that it is probable that these projects will be
completed. If a project is expected not to be completed as planned, previously capitalized costs will be reversed through earnings as a charge to operating and maintenance expense and interest.



Nuclear Waste Disposal.There are no facilities for the
reprocessing or permanent disposal of SNF currently in operation in the United States, nor has the NRC licensed any such facilities. Generation currently stores all SNF generated by its nuclear generating facilities in on-site storage pools or in
dry cask storage facilities. Since Generation’s SNF storage pools generally do not have sufficient storage capacity for the life of the respective plant, Generation has developed dry cask storage facilities to support operations.






As of December 31, 2013, Generation had approximately 59,900 SNF assemblies (14,400 tons) stored
on site in SNF pools or dry cask storage (this includes SNF assemblies at Zion Station, for which Generation retains ownership even though the responsibility for decommissioning Zion Station has been assumed by another party; see Note 15 of the
Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Zion Station Decommissioning). All currently operating Generation-owned nuclear sites have on-site dry cask storage, except for Clinton and Three Mile Island.
Clinton and Three Mile Island will currently lose full core reserve, which is when the on-site storage pool will no longer have sufficient space to receive a full complement of fuel from the reactor core, in 2015 and 2023, respectively. Dry cask
storage will be in operation at Clinton and is expected to be in operation at Three Mile Island prior to the closing of their respective on-site storage pools. On-site dry cask storage in concert with on-site storage pools will be capable of meeting
all current and future SNF storage requirements at Generation’s sites through the end of the license renewal periods and through decommissioning.



For a discussion of matters associated with Generation’s contracts with the DOE for the disposal of SNF, see Note 22 of the Combined Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.



As a by-product of their
operations, nuclear generating units produce LLRW. LLRW is accumulated at each generating station and permanently disposed of at licensed disposal facilities. The Federal Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980 provides that states may enter
into agreements to provide regional disposal facilities for LLRW and restrict use of those facilities to waste generated within the region. Illinois and Kentucky have entered into such an agreement, although neither state currently has an
operational site and none is anticipated to be operational until after 2020.





Nuclear Insurance.Generation is subject to liability, property damage and other risks associated with major incidents at any of its nuclear stations, including the CENG nuclear stations. Generation
has reduced its financial exposure to these risks through insurance and other industry risk-sharing provisions. See “Nuclear Insurance” within Note 22 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details.



For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES—Generation. Generation is self-insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained or are within the policy deductible for its insured losses. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on
Exelon’s and Generation’s financial condition and results of operations.






Decommissioning.NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities
demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—Exelon Corporation, Executive Overview; ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Nuclear Decommissioning, Asset
Retirement Obligations and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments; and Notes 3, 11 and 15 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Generation’s NDT funds and its decommissioning
obligations.



Dresden Unit 1 and Peach Bottom Unit 1 have
ceased power generation. SNF at Dresden Unit 1 is currently being stored in dry cask storage until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. All SNF for Peach Bottom Unit 1, which ceased operation in 1974, has been removed from the site
and the SNF pool is drained and decontaminated. Generation’s estimated ARO liability to decommission Dresden Unit 1 and Peach Bottom Unit 1 as of December 31, 2013 was $208 million and $114 million, respectively. As of December 31,
2013, NDT funds set aside to pay for these obligations were $436 million.



Zion Station Decommissioning.On December 11, 2007, Generation entered into an Asset Sale Agreement (ASA) with EnergySolutions, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, EnergySolutions, LLC
(EnergySolutions) and ZionSolutions, LLC (ZionSolutions) under which ZionSolutions assumed responsibility for decommissioning Zion Station, which is located in Zion, Illinois and ceased operation in 1998.



On September 1, 2010, Generation and EnergySolutions completed the
transactions contemplated by the ASA. Specifically, Generation transferred to ZionSolutions substantially all of the assets (other than land) associated with Zion Station, including assets held in related NDT funds. In consideration for
Generation’s transfer of those assets, ZionSolutions assumed decommissioning and other liabilities, excluding the obligation to dispose of SNF, associated with Zion Station. Pursuant to the ASA, ZionSolutions will periodically request
reimbursement from the Zion Station-related NDT funds for costs incurred related to the decommissioning efforts at Zion Station. However, ZionSolutions is subject to certain restrictions on its ability to request reimbursement; specifically, if
certain milestones as defined in the ASA are not met, all or a portion of requested reimbursements shall be deferred until such milestones are met. See Note 15 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
regarding Zion Station Decommissioning and see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of variable interest entity considerations related to ZionSolutions.



Fossil and Renewable Facilities (including Hydroelectric)



Generation has ownership interests in 15,875 MW of capacity in fossil
and renewable generating facilities currently in service. Generation wholly owns all of its fossil and renewable generating stations, with the exception of: (1) jointly owned facilities that include Keystone, Conemaugh, and Wyman;
(2) ownership interests through equity method investments in Colver, Malacha, Safe Harbor, and Sunnyside; and (3) certain wind project entities with minority interest owners, see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information on these wind project entities. Generation’s fossil and renewable generating stations are all operated by Generation, with the exception of Colver, Conemaugh, Keystone, LaPorte, Malacha, Safe Harbor,
Sunnyside and Wyman, which are operated by third parties. In 2013 and 2012, electric supply (in GWh) generated from owned fossil and renewable generating facilities was 15% and 12%, respectively, of Generation’s total electric supply. The
majority of this output was dispatched to support Generation’s wholesale and retail power






marketing activities. For additional information regarding Generation’s electric generating facilities, see ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Generation and ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—Exelon Corporation, Executive Overview for additional information on Generation Renewable Development.



Licenses.Fossil and renewable generation plants are
generally not licensed, and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non-Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways or Federal lands, or
connected to the interstate electric grid. On August 29, 2012 and August 30, 2012, Generation submitted hydroelectric license applications to the FERC for 46-year licenses for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Project and the Conowingo
Hydroelectric Project, respectively. Based on the latest FERC procedural schedule, the FERC licensing process is not expected to be completed prior to the expiration of Muddy Run’s current license on August 31, 2014, and the expiration of
Conowingo’s license on September 1, 2014. However, the stations will continue to operate under annual licenses until FERC takes action on the 46-year license applications. Refer to Note 3—Regulatory Matters for additional information.



Insurance.Generation maintains business
interruption insurance for its renewable projects, and delay in start-up insurance for its renewable projects currently under construction. Generation does not purchase business interruption insurance for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric
operations. Generation maintains both property damage and liability insurance. For property damage and liability claims for these operations, Generation is self-insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount
of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon’s and Generation’s financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES—Generation.



Long-Term Power Purchase Contracts



In addition to energy produced by owned generation
assets, Generation sources electricity and other related output from plants it does not own under long-term contracts. The following tables summarize Generation’s long-term contracts to purchase unit-specific physical power with an original
term in excess of one year in duration, by region, in effect as of December 31, 2013:



RegionNumber ofAgreementsExpiration DatesCapacity (MW)Mid-Atlantic(a)162016 - 2032799Midwest72015 - 20221,734New England142014 - 20201,291ERCOT52014 - 20261,489Other Regions112014 - 20304,113Total539,426



20142015201620172018Capacity Expiring (MW)1,3001,7056511,337100



(a)Excludes contracts with CENG.






Fuel



The following table shows sources of electric supply in GWh for 2013 and 2012:



Source of Electric Supply(a)20132012Nuclear142,126139,862Purchases—non-trading portfolio(b)69,79191,994Fossil30,78527,760Renewable6,4204,079Total supply249,122263,695



(a)Represents Generation’s proportionate share of the output of its generating plants.

(b)Includes purchases pursuant to Generation’s PPA with CENG. See Note 25 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



The fuel costs for nuclear generation are
less than those for fossil-fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost-effective way for Generation to meet its wholesale and retail load servicing requirements.



The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the
mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate
inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2016. Generation’s contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2020. All of
Generation’s enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2018. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2018. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion,
enrichment or fabrication services to meet the nuclear fuel requirements of its nuclear units.



Natural gas is procured through long-term and short-term contracts, as well as spot-market purchases. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the
event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage of favorable market pricing.



Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price
risk, using both over-the-counter and exchange-traded instruments. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS, ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
and Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments.



Power Marketing



Generation’s integrated business operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through its generation capacity and
through long-term, intermediate-term and short-term contracts. Generation maintains an effective supply strategy through ownership of generation assets and power purchase and lease agreements. Generation has also contracted for access to additional
generation through bilateral long-term PPAs. PPAs are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and/or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership depending on the type of underlying asset. Generation secures
contracted generation as part of its overall strategic






plan, with objectives such as obtaining low-cost energy supply sources to meet its physical delivery obligations to both wholesale and retail customers and assisting customers to meet renewable
portfolio standards. Generation may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd, PECO and BGE. Generation sells electricity, natural gas, and related products and solutions to various customers, including distribution
utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and commercial, industrial, governmental, and residential customers in competitive markets. Generation’s customer facing operations combine a unified sales force with a customer-centric model that
leverages technology to broaden the range of products and solutions offered, which Generation believes promotes stronger customer relationships. This model focuses on efficiency and cost reduction, which provides a platform that is scalable and able
to capitalize on opportunities for future growth.



Generation’s purchases may be for more than the energy demanded by Generation’s customers. Generation then sells this open position, along
with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale electricity markets. Where necessary, Generation also purchases transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet
customer delivery needs in markets without an organized RTO. Generation also incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of
warmer-than-normal weather conditions. Generation actively manages these physical and contractual assets in order to derive incremental value. Additionally, Generation is involved in the development, exploration, and harvesting of oil, natural gas
and natural gas liquids properties.



Price Supply Risk Management








At December 31, 2013, Generation’s short and long-term commitments relating to the purchase
of energy and capacity from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows:



(in millions)Net
CapacityPurchases(a)RECPurchases(b)Transmission RightsPurchases(c)Purchased Energyfrom CENGTotal2014$412$117$25$824$1,378201536711013—4902016284762—3622017223252—250201811232—117Thereafter414332—449Total$1,812$334$76$824$3,046



(a)Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts including those that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent
Generation’s expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2013, net of fixed capacity payments expected to be received by Generation under contracts to resell such acquired capacity to third parties under long-term capacity
sale contracts. Expected payments include certain fixed capacity charges which may be reduced on plant availability.

(b)The table excludes renewable energy purchases that are contingent in nature.

(c)Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts.



As part of reaching a comprehensive agreement with EDF in October 2010,
the existing power purchase agreements with CENG were modified to be unit-contingent through the end of their original term in 2014. Under these agreements Generation purchases 85% of the nuclear plant output owned by CENG that is not sold to third
parties. CENG has the ability to fix the energy price on a forward basis by entering into monthly energy hedge transactions for a portion of the future sale, while any unhedged portions will be provided at market prices by default. Additionally,
beginning in 2015 and continuing to the end of the life of the respective plants, Generation agreed to purchase 50.01% of the nuclear plant output owned by CENG at market prices. This purchase agreement will continue to be effective under the Master
Agreement discussed above, except that if the put option under the Master Agreement is exercised, then the EDF PPA will be transferred to Generation upon the completion of the Put Option Agreement transaction. Generation discloses in the table above
commitments to purchase from CENG at fixed prices. All commitments to purchase from CENG at market prices, which include all purchases subsequent to December 31, 2014, are excluded from the table. Generation continues to own a 50.01% membership
interest in CENG that is accounted for as an equity method investment. See Note 25 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on this arrangement.



Capital Expenditures



Generation’s business is capital intensive and requires
significant investments in nuclear fuel and energy generation assets and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generation’s estimated capital expenditures for 2014 are as follows:



(in millions)Nuclear fuel(a)$900Production plant900Renewable energy projects300Uprates150Maryland commitments100Other50Total$2,400



(a)Includes Generation’s share of the investment in nuclear fuel for the co-owned Salem plant.






ComEd



ComEd is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale
of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to a diverse base of residential, commercial and industrial customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is a public utility under the Illinois Public Utilities Act subject to
regulation by the ICC related to distribution rates and service, the issuance of securities, and certain other aspects of ComEd’s business. ComEd is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to
transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEd’s business. Specific operations of ComEd are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, ComEd is subject to NERC mandatory
reliability standards.



ComEd’s retail service
territory has an area of approximately 11,400 square miles and an estimated population of 9 million. The service territory includes the City of Chicago, an area of about 225 square miles with an estimated population of 2.7 million. ComEd has
approximately 3.8 million customers.



ComEd’s
franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ComEd’s franchise rights are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience issued by the ICC. With
few exceptions, the franchise rights have stated expiration dates ranging from 2014 to 2066. ComEd anticipates working with the appropriate agencies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration.



ComEd’s kWh deliveries and peak electricity load are generally
higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. ComEd’s highest peak load occurred on July 20, 2011, and was 23,753 MWs; its highest peak load during a winter
season occurred on January 6, 2014, and was 16,514 MWs.



Retail
Electric Services



Electric revenues and purchased
power expense are affected by fluctuations in customers’ purchases from competitive electric generation suppliers. All ComEd customers have the ability to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. The customers’
choice activity affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy; however, that activity has no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd’s cost of electric supply is passed without markup directly
through to those customers not served by a competitive electric generation supplier and those rates are subject to adjustment monthly to recover or refund the difference between ComEd’s actual cost of electricity delivered and the amount
included in rates. For those customers that choose a competitive electric generation supplier, ComEd acts as the billing agent but does not record revenues or expenses related to the electric supply. ComEd remains the distribution service provider
for all customers in its service territory and charges a regulated rate for distribution service. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for additional information on customer
switching to competitive electric generation suppliers, and Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEd’s electricity procurement process and for additional information.



Under Illinois law, ComEd is required to deliver electricity to all
customers. ComEd’s obligation to provide generation supply service, which is referred to as a POLR obligation, primarily varies by customer size. ComEd’s obligation to provide such service to residential customers and other small customers
with demands of under 100 kWs continues for all customers who do not choose a competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to ComEd after taking service from a competitive electric generation supplier. ComEd does not have a
fixed-price generation supply service obligation to most of its largest customers with demands of 100 kWs or greater, as this group of customers has previously been declared competitive. Customers with competitive declarations may still purchase
power and energy from ComEd, but only at hourly market prices.






Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act (EIMA).Since 2011, ComEd’s distribution rates are
established through a performance-based rate formula pursuant to EIMA. EIMA also provides a structure for substantial capital investment by utilities over a ten-year period to modernize Illinois’ electric utility infrastructure. In addition, as
long as ComEd is subject to EIMA, ComEd will fund customer assistance programs for low-income customers, which amounts will not be recoverable through rates.



ComEd files an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect in a given year to reflect the actual costs that the ICC determines are
prudently and reasonably incurred for such year. Under the terms of EIMA, ComEd’s target rate of return on common equity is subject to reduction if ComEd does not deliver the reliability and customer service benefits, as defined, it has
committed to over the ten-year life of the investment program. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Electric Distribution Rate Cases. The ICC issued an order in ComEd’s 2007 electric distribution rate case (2007 Rate Case) approving a
$274 million increase in ComEd’s annual delivery services revenue requirement, which became effective in September 2008. In the order, the ICC authorized a 10.3% rate of return on common equity. On February 23, 2012, the ICC issued an
order in the remand proceeding requiring ComEd to provide a refund of approximately $37 million to customers related to the treatment of post-test year accumulated depreciation. ComEd and several other parties filed appeals of the rate order with
the Illinois Appellate Court (Court). On September 27, 2013, the Court ruled against ComEd on the accumulated depreciation issue and affirmed that ComEd owes a refund to customers of $37 million. As of December 31, 2013, and
December 31, 2012, ComEd was fully reserved for this liability. ComEd will not seek rehearing or appeal on this matter and is working with the ICC on the process and timing for a refund to customers.



On May 24, 2011, the ICC issued an order in ComEd’s 2010
electric distribution rate case (2010 Rate Case), which became effective on June 1, 2011. The order approved a $143 million increase to ComEd’s annual delivery service revenue requirement and a 10.5% rate of return on common equity. The
order has been appealed to the Court by several parties. On May 16, 2013, the Court dismissed as moot the appeals of the ICC’s order in the 2010 Rate Case as ComEd now recovers distribution costs under EIMA through a pre-established
formula rate tariff. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEd’s electric distribution rate cases.



Procurement-Related Proceedings.Since June 2009, the IPA
designs, and the ICC approves, an electricity supply portfolio for ComEd and the IPA administers a competitive process under which ComEd procures its electricity supply from various suppliers, including Generation. As required by EIMA, in February
2012 the IPA completed procurement events for energy and REC requirements for the June 2013 through December 2017 period. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEd’s procurement
plans. See Note 22 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEd’s energy commitments.



Continuous Power Interruption.The Illinois Public Utilities Act provides that in the event an electric utility, such as ComEd, experiences a
continuous power interruption of four hours or more that affects (in ComEd’s case) more than 30,000 customers, the utility may be liable for actual damages suffered by customers as a result of the interruption and may be responsible for
reimbursement of local governmental emergency and contingency expenses incurred in connection with the interruption. Recovery of consequential damages is barred. The affected utility may seek from the ICC a waiver of these liabilities when the
utility can show that the cause of the interruption was unpreventable damage due to weather events or conditions, customer tampering, or certain other causes enumerated in the law. See Note 22—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.






Smart Meter, Smart Grid and Energy Efficiency Programs



Smart Meter and Smart Grid Programs.On January 6, 2012,
ComEd filed its Infrastructure Investment Plan with the ICC. Under that plan, ComEd will invest approximately $2.6 billion over ten years to modernize and storm-harden its distribution system and to implement smart grid technology. On April 23,
2012, ComEd filed its initial AMI Deployment Plan with the ICC, which was approved by the ICC on June 22, 2012, with certain modifications. ComEd outlined the new deployment schedule within testimony provided in the AMI Plan Rehearing and filed
a revised AMI deployment plan with the ICC. On December 5, 2012, the ICC approved ComEd’s revised AMI deployment plan. On June 5, 2013, the ICC issued an interim Order approving ComEd’s accelerated AMI deployment plan consistent
with the provisions of Senate Bill 9. The deployment plan provides for the installation of 4 million electric smart meters, of which more than 60,000 meters were installed by the end of 2013.



Energy Efficiency Programs.As a result of the Illinois
Settlement Legislation, electric utilities in Illinois are required to include cost-effective energy efficiency resources in their plans to meet an incremental annual program energy savings requirement of 0.2% of energy delivered to retail customers
for the year ended June 1, 2009, which increases annually to 2.0% of energy delivered in the year commencing June 1, 2015 and each year thereafter. Additionally, during the ten-year period that began June 1, 2008, electric utilities
must implement cost-effective demand response measures to reduce peak demand by 0.1% over the prior year for eligible retail customers. The energy efficiency and demand response goals are subject to rate impact caps each year. Utilities are allowed
recovery of costs for energy efficiency and demand response programs, subject to approval by the ICC. In December 2010, the ICC approved ComEd’s second three-year Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Plan covering the period June 2011 through
May 2014. The plans are designed to meet the Illinois Settlement Legislation’s energy efficiency and demand response goals through May 2014, including reductions in delivered energy to all retail customers and in the peak demand of eligible
retail customers.



EIMA provides for additional energy
efficiency in Illinois. Starting in the June 2013—May 2014 period and occurring annually thereafter, as part of the IPA procurement plan, ComEd is to include cost-effective expansion of current energy efficiency programs, any additional
new cost-effective program and/or third-party energy efficiency programs that are identified through a request for proposal (“RFP”) process. All cost-effective energy efficiency programs are included in the IPA procurement plan for
consideration of implementation. While these programs are monitored separately from the Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard (EEPS), funds for both the EEPS portfolio and IPA energy efficiency programs are collected under the same rider.



Construction Budget



ComEd’s business is capital intensive and requires significant
investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities, to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. Based on PJM’s RTEP, ComEd has various construction commitments, as discussed in Note 3 of the
Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEd’s most recent estimate of capital expenditures for electric plant additions and improvements for 2014 is $1,775 million, which includes RTEP projects and infrastructure modernization
resulting from EIMA. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information.



PECO



PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to
retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and






the provision of gas distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is a public utility under the Pennsylvania Public Utility
Code subject to regulation by the PAPUC as to electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of PECO’s operations. PECO is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to
regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of PECO’s business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation as to pipeline safety and other areas of gas operations. Specific operations of PECO are subject to the
jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, PECO is also subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards.



PECO’s combined electric and natural gas retail service territory has an area of approximately 2,100 square miles and an estimated population
of 4.0 million. PECO provides electric distribution service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles, with a population of approximately 3.9 million, including approximately 1.5 million in the City of Philadelphia. PECO provides
natural gas distribution service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles in southeastern Pennsylvania adjacent to the City of Philadelphia, with a population of approximately 2.4 million. PECO delivers electricity to approximately
1.6 million customers and natural gas to approximately 501,000 customers.



PECO has the necessary authorizations to provide regulated electric and natural gas distribution service in the various municipalities or territories in which it now supplies such services. PECO’s
authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and/or “grandfathered rights,” which are rights generally unlimited as to time and generally exclusive from competition from other electric
and natural gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECO’s natural gas service territory authorizations overlap with that of another natural gas utility; however, PECO does not consider those situations as posing a material competitive
or financial threat.



PECO’s kWh sales and peak
electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. PECO’s highest peak load occurred on July 22, 2011 and was 8,983 MW; its
highest peak load during winter months occurred on January 7, 2014 and was 7,148 MW.



PECO’s natural gas sales are generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. PECO’s highest daily natural gas send out occurred on January 7, 2014
and was 760 mmcf.



Retail Electric Services



PECO’s retail electric sales and distribution service revenues
are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. Pennsylvania permits competition by competitive electric generation suppliers for the supply of retail electricity while retail transmission and distribution service remains regulated under the
Competition Act. At December 31, 2013, there were 87 competitive electric generation suppliers serving PECO customers. At December 31, 2013, the number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier
was 531,500 representing approximately 34% of total retail customers. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented approximately 68% of PECO’s retail kWh sales for the year ended December 31, 2013.
Customers that choose a competitive electric generation supplier are not subject to rates for PECO’s electric supply procurement costs and retail transmission service charges. PECO presents on customer bills its electric supply Price to
Compare, which is updated quarterly, to assist customers with the evaluation of offers from competitive electric generation suppliers.



Customer choice program activity affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy; however, that activity has no impact on
electric revenue net of purchased power expense or PECO’s financial position. PECO’s cost of electric supply is passed directly through to default service






customers without markup and those rates are subject to adjustment at least quarterly to recover or refund the difference between PECO’s actual cost of electricity delivered and the amount
included in rates through the GSA. For those customers that choose a competitive electric generation supplier, PECO acts as the billing agent but does not record revenues or purchase power expense related to this electric supply. PECO remains the
distribution service provider for all customers in its service territory and charges a regulated rate for distribution service.



Procurement Proceedings.PECO’s electric supply for its customers is procured through contracts executed in accordance with its
PAPUC-approved DSP Programs. PECO entered into contracts with PAPUC-approved bidders, including Generation, as part of its DSP I competitive procurements conducted since June 2009 for its default electric supply beginning January 2011, which
included fixed price full requirement contracts for all procurement classes, spot market price full requirements contracts for the commercial and industrial procurement classes, and block energy contracts for the residential procurement class. In
September 2012, PECO completed its last competitive procurement for electric supply under its first DSP Program, which expired on May 31, 2013.



On October 12, 2012, the PAPUC approved PECO’s second DSP Program, which was filed with the PAPUC in January 2012. The plan outlines how
PECO is purchasing electric supply for default service customers from June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. Pursuant to the second DSP Program, PECO is procuring electric supply through five competitive procurements for fixed price full
requirements contracts of two years or less for the residential and small and medium commercial classes and spot market price full requirement contracts for the large commercial and industrial class load. In December 2012 and February 2013, PECO
entered into contracts with PAPUC-approved bidders, including Generation, for its residential and small and medium commercial classes that began in June 2013. In September 2013, PECO entered into contracts with PAPUC-approved bidders, including
Generation, for its residential and small and medium commercial classes that began in December 2013. In January 2014, PECO entered into contracts with PAPUC-approved bidders, including Generation, for its residential and small, medium and large
commercial classes that will begin in June 2014. Charges incurred for electric supply procured through contracts with Generation are included in purchased power from affiliates on PECO’s Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income.



The second DSP Program also includes a number of retail
market enhancements recommended by the PAPUC in its previously issued Retail Markets Intermediate Work Plan Order. PECO was also directed to allow its low-income Customer Assistance Program (CAP) customers to purchase their generation supply from
competitive electric generation suppliers beginning April 1, 2014. On May 1, 2013, PECO filed a Petition for Approval of its CAP Shopping Plan with the PAPUC, which the PAPUC granted and denied in part on January 9, 2014. PECO and other parties
to the proceeding filed petitions for reconsideration of the Commission’s decision on February 10, 2014, and these petitions are currently pending before the PAPUC.



See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information.



Smart Meter, Smart Grid and Energy
Efficiency Programs



Smart Meter and Smart Grid
Programs.In April 2010, the PAPUC approved PECO’s Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, which was filed in accordance with the requirements of Act 129. Also, in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with
the DOE for SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. Under the SGIG, PECO has been awarded $200 million, the maximum grant allowable under the program, for its SGIG project—Smart Future Greater Philadelphia. The SGIG funds are being used to offset
the total impact to ratepayers of the smart meter deployment required by Act 129. On January 18, 2013, PECO filed with the PAPUC its universal deployment plan for approval of its proposal to deploy the remainder of the 1.6 million smart
meters on an accelerated basis by the






end of 2014. On May 31, 2013, PECO and interested parties filed a Joint Petition for Settlement of the universal deployment plan with the PAPUC, which was approved without modification on
August 15, 2013. In total, PECO currently expects to spend up to $595 million and $120 million on its smart meter and smart grid infrastructure, respectively, before considering the $200 million SGIG.



See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information.



Energy Efficiency
Programs.PECO’s PAPUC-approved Phase I EE&C plan had a four-year term that began on June 1, 2009 and concluded on May 31, 2013. The Phase I Plan sets forth how PECO would meet the required reduction targets established by Act
129’s EE&C provisions, which included a 3% reduction in electric consumption in PECO’s service territory and a 4.5% reduction in PECO’s annual system peak demand in the 100 hours of highest demand by May 31, 2013. The peak
demand period ended on September 30, 2012 and PECO communicated its compliance with the reduction targets in a preliminary report with the PAPUC on March 1, 2013. The final compliance report was filed with the PAPUC on November 15,
2013.



The PAPUC issued its Phase II EE&C implementation
order on August 2, 2012, that provides energy consumption reduction requirements for the second phase of Act 129’s EE&C programs, which went into effect on June 1, 2013. The PAPUC deferred a decision on peak demand reduction
requirements until late 2013. On February 28, 2013, the PAPUC approved PECO’s three-year EE&C Phase II plan that was filed with the PAPUC on November 1, 2012, and sets forth how PECO will reduce electric consumption by at least
1,125,852 MWh in its service territory for the period June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2016.



See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Natural Gas



PECO’s natural gas sales and distribution service revenues are derived through natural gas deliveries at rates regulated by the PAPUC.
PECO’s purchased natural gas cost rates, which represent a significant portion of total rates, are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount
included in rates without markup through the PGC.



PECO’s natural gas customers have the right to choose their natural gas suppliers or to purchase their gas supply from PECO at cost. At
December 31, 2013, the number of retail customers purchasing natural gas from a competitive natural gas supplier was 66,400, representing approximately 13% of total retail customers. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive natural gas
suppliers represented approximately 19% of PECO’s mmcf sales for the year ended December 31, 2013. PECO provides distribution, billing, metering, installation, maintenance and emergency response services at regulated rates to all its
customers in its service territory.



Procurement
Proceedings. PECO’s natural gas supply is purchased from a number of suppliers primarily under long-term firm transportation contracts for terms of up to three years in accordance with its annual PAPUC PGC settlement. PECO’s aggregate
annual firm supply under these firm transportation contracts is 34 million dekatherms. Peak natural gas is provided by PECO’s liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility and propane-air plant. PECO also has under contract 21 million
dekatherms of underground storage through service agreements. Natural gas from underground storage represents approximately 30% of PECO’s 2013-2014 heating season planned supplies.



See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.






Construction Budget



PECO’s business is capital intensive and requires significant
investments primarily in electric transmission and electric and natural gas distribution facilities to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. PECO, as a transmission facilities owner, has various construction
commitments under PJM’s RTEP as discussed in Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECO’s most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2014 is $625 million, which
includes RTEP projects and capital expenditures related to the smart meter and smart grid project net of expected SGIG DOE reimbursements.



BGE



BGE is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to
retail customers in central Maryland, including the City of Baltimore, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in central Maryland, including the City of
Baltimore. BGE is a public utility under the Public Utilities Article of the Maryland Annotated Code subject to regulation by the MDPSC as to electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other
aspects of BGE’s operations. BGE is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of BGE’s business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation as to pipeline
safety and other areas of gas operations. Specific operations of BGE are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, BGE is also subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards.



BGE serves an estimated population of 2.8 million in its 2,300
square mile combined electric and gas retail service territory. BGE provides electric distribution service in an area of approximately 2,300 square miles and gas distribution service in an area of approximately 800 square miles, both with a
population of approximately 2.8 million, including approximately 621,000 in the City of Baltimore. BGE delivers electricity to approximately 1.2 million customers and natural gas to approximately 655,000 customers.



BGE has the necessary authorizations to provide regulated electric and
natural gas distribution services in the various municipalities and territories in which it now supplies such services. With respect to electric distribution service, BGE’s authorizations consist of charter rights, a state-wide franchise grant
and a franchise grant from the City of Baltimore. The franchise rights are not exclusive and are perpetual. With respect to natural gas distribution service, BGE’s authorizations consist of charter rights, a perpetual state-wide franchise
grant, and franchises granted by all the municipalities and/or governmental bodies in which BGE now supplies services. The franchise grants are not exclusive; some are perpetual and some are for a limited duration, which BGE anticipates being able
to extend or replace prior to expiration.



BGE’s kWh
sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. BGE’s highest peak load occurred on July 21, 2011 and was 7,236
MW; its highest peak load during winter months occurred on January 7, 2014 and was 6,526 MW.



BGE’s natural gas sales are generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. BGE’s highest daily natural gas send out occurred on February 5, 2007 and was
840 mmcf.



The demand for electricity and gas is affected by
weather and usage conditions. The MDPSC has allowed BGE to record a monthly adjustment to its electric and gas distribution revenues from all residential customers, commercial electric customers, the majority of large industrial electric customers,
and all firm service gas customers to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather and usage patterns per






customer on BGE’s electric and gas distribution volumes, thereby recovering a specified dollar amount of distribution revenues per customer, by customer class, regardless of changes in
consumption levels. This adjustment allows BGE to recognize revenues at MDPSC-approved levels per customer, regardless of what actual distribution volumes were for a billing period (referred to as “revenue decoupling”). Therefore, while
these revenues are affected by customer growth, they will not be affected by actual weather or usage conditions. BGE bills or credits affected customers in subsequent months for the difference between approved revenue levels under revenue decoupling
and actual customer billings.



Retail Electric Services



BGE’s retail electric sales and distribution
service revenues are derived from electricity deliveries at rates regulated by the MDPSC. As a result of the deregulation of electric generation in Maryland effective July 1, 2000, all customers can choose a competitive electric generation
supplier. While BGE does not sell electric supply to all customers in its service territory, BGE continues to deliver electricity to all customers and provides meter reading, billing, emergency response, and regular maintenance services. Customer
choice program activity affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy; however, that activity has minimal impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense or BGE’s financial position. At December 31, 2013,
there were 73 competitive electric generation suppliers serving BGE customers. At December 31, 2013, the number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier was approximately 399,000, representing 32% of
total retail customers. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented approximately 61% of BGE’s retail kWh sales for the year ended December 31, 2013.



BGE is obligated to provide market-based SOS to all of its electric
customers. The SOS rates charged recover BGE’s wholesale power supply costs and include an administrative fee. The administrative fee includes a commercial and industrial shareholder return component and an incremental cost
component. Bidding to supply BGE’s market-based SOS occurs through a competitive bidding process approved by the MDPSC. Successful bidders, which may include Generation, will execute contracts with BGE for terms of three months or two
years.



BGE is obligated by the MDPSC to provide several
variations of SOS to commercial and industrial customers depending on customer load.



Electric Distribution Rate Cases.In December 2010, the MDPSC issued an abbreviated electric rate order authorizing BGE to increase electric distribution rates for service rendered on or after
December 4, 2010 by no more than $31 million. In March 2011, the MDPSC issued a comprehensive rate order setting forth the details of the decision contained in its abbreviated combined electric and gas distribution rate order issued in
December 2010. As part of the March 2011 comprehensive rate order, BGE was authorized to defer $19 million of costs as regulatory assets. These costs are being recovered over a 5-year period beginning in December 2010 and include the deferral of $16
million of storm costs incurred in February 2010. The regulatory asset for the storm costs earns the authorized rate of return.



On July 27, 2012, BGE filed an application for an increase to its electric base rates with the MDPSC. On February 22, 2013, the MDPSC
issued an order in BGE’s 2012 electric rate case for increases in annual distribution service revenue of $81 million. The electric distribution rate increase was set using an allowed return on equity of 9.75%.



On May 17, 2013, BGE filed an application for an increase to its
electric base rates with the MDPSC. On December 13, 2013, the MDPSC issued an order in BGE’s 2013 electric distribution rate case authorizing an increase in annual distribution service revenue of $34 million. The electric distribution rate
increase was set using an allowed return on equity of 9.75%. The approved electric distribution rate became effective for services rendered on or after December 13, 2013.






Smart Meter and Energy Efficiency Programs



Smart Meter Programs.In August 2010, the MDPSC approved BGE’s $480 million SGIP, which includes
deployment of a two-way communications network, 2 million smart electric and gas meters and modules, new customer pricing programs, a new customer web portal and numerous enhancements to BGE operations. Also, in April 2010, BGE entered into a
Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. Under the SGIG, BGE has been awarded $200 million, the maximum grant allowable under the program, to support its Smart Grid, Peak Rewards and CC&B
initiatives. The SGIG funding is being used to reduce significantly the rate impact of those investments on BGE customers. As of December 31, 2013, BGE has billed the entire $200 million grant to the DOE.



Energy Efficiency Programs.BGE’s energy efficiency
programs include a CFL program, retrofit programs, an energy efficient appliance rebate and trade-in program, rebates and energy efficiency programs for non-profit, educational, governmental and business customers, customer incentives for energy
management programs and incentives to help customers reduce energy demand during peak periods. The MDPSC initially approved a full portfolio of conservation programs as well as a customer surcharge to recover the associated costs. This customer
surcharge is updated annually. In December 2011, the MDPSC approved BGE’s conservation programs for implementation in 2012 through 2014.



Natural Gas



BGE’s natural gas sales are derived pursuant to a MBR mechanism that applies to customers who buy their gas from BGE. Under this mechanism,
BGE’s actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between BGE’s actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. Customer
choice program activity affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied natural gas; however, that activity has minimum impact on gas revenue net of purchased power expense or BGE’s financial position. At December 31, 2013,
there were 41 competitive natural gas suppliers serving BGE customers. At December 31, 2013, the number of retail customers purchasing fuel from a competitive natural gas supplier was approximately 172,000 representing 26% of total retail
customers. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive natural gas suppliers represented approximately 54% of BGE’s retail mmcf sales for the year ended December 31, 2013.



BGE must secure fixed price contracts for at least 10%, but not more than 20%, of forecasted system supply requirements
for flowing (i.e., non-storage) gas for the November through March period. These fixed price contracts are recovered under the MBR mechanism and are not subject to sharing. BGE meets its natural gas load requirements through firm pipeline
transportation and storage entitlements. BGE’s current pipeline firm transportation entitlements to serve its firm loads are 362 mmcf per day.



BGE’s current maximum storage entitlements are 284 mmcf per day. To supplement its gas supply at times of heavy winter demands and to be
available in temporary emergencies affecting gas supply, BGE has:



•a liquefied natural gas facility for the liquefaction and storage of natural gas with a total storage capacity of 1,055 mmcf and a daily capacity of 332 mmcf,



•a liquefied natural gas facility for natural gas system pressure support with a total storage capacity of 6 mmcf and a daily capacity of 6 mmcf, and



•a propane air facility and a mined cavern with a total storage capacity equivalent to 546 mmcf and a daily capacity of 85 mmcf.



BGE has under contract sufficient volumes of propane for the operation
of the propane air facility and is capable of liquefying sufficient volumes of natural gas during the summer months for operations






of its liquefied natural gas facility during peak winter periods. BGE historically has been able to arrange short-term contracts or exchange agreements with other gas companies in the event of
short-term disruptions to gas supplies or to meet additional demand.



BGE also participates in the interstate markets by releasing pipeline capacity or bundling pipeline capacity with gas for off-system sales. Off-system gas sales are low-margin direct sales of gas to wholesale
suppliers of natural gas. Earnings from these activities are shared between shareholders and customers. BGE makes these sales as part of a program to balance its supply of, and cost of, natural gas.



Natural Gas Distribution Rate Cases.In December 2010, the MDPSC
issued a rate order authorizing BGE to increase the gas distribution base revenue requirement for service rendered on or after December 4, 2010 by no more than $9.8 million. In March 2011, the MDPSC issued a comprehensive rate order
setting forth the details of the decision contained in its abbreviated combined electric and gas distribution rate order issued in December 2010.



On July 27, 2012, BGE filed an application for an increase to its gas base rates with the MDPSC. On February 22, 2013, the MDPSC issued an
order in BGE’s 2012 gas rate case for increases in annual distribution service revenue of $32 million. The electric distribution rate increase was set using an allowed return on equity of 9.60%.



On May 17, 2013, BGE filed an application for an increase to its
gas base rates with the MDPSC. On December 13, 2013, the MDPSC issued an order in BGE’s 2013 natural gas distribution rate case authorizing an increase in annual distribution service revenue of $12 million. The gas distribution rate
increase was set using an allowed return on equity of 9.60%. The approved natural gas distribution rate became effective for services rendered on or after December 13, 2013.



Construction Budget



BGE’s business is capital intensive and requires significant
investments primarily in electric and natural gas distribution and electric transmission facilities to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. BGE, as a transmission facilities owner, has various construction
commitments under PJM’s RTEP as discussed in Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. BGE’s most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2014 is approximately $600 million,
which includes capital expenditures related to the SGIP net of expected SGIG DOE reimbursements.



ComEd, PECO and BGE



Transmission Services



ComEd, PECO and BGE provide unbundled transmission service under rates approved by FERC. FERC has used its regulation of transmission to encourage
competition for wholesale generation services and the development of regional structures to facilitate regional wholesale markets. Under FERC’s open access transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, ComEd, PECO and BGE, as owners of
transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost-based rates. ComEd, PECO and BGE are required to comply with FERC’s Standards of Conduct regulation governing the
communication of non-public information between the transmission owner’s employees and wholesale merchant employees.



PJM is the ISO and the FERC-approved RTO for the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of,
the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff), operates the PJM energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls






the day-to-day operations of the bulk power system for the PJM region. ComEd, PECO and BGE are members of PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. ComEd, PECO,
BGE and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are currently under the dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on
a region-wide, open-access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM members at rates based on the costs of transmission service.



ComEd’s transmission rates are established based on a formula that was approved by FERC in January 2008. FERC’s order establishes the
agreed-upon treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on an annual basis.



PECO default service customers are charged for retail transmission
services through a rider designed to recover PECO’s PJM transmission network service charges and RTEP charges on a full and current basis in accordance with the 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement.



The transmission rate in the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff under
which PECO incurs costs to serve its default service customers and earns revenue as a transmission facility owner is a FERC-approved rate. This is the rate that all load serving entities in the PECO transmission zone pay for wholesale transmission
service.



BGE’s transmission rates are established
based on a formula that was approved by FERC in April 2006. FERC’s order establishes the agreed-upon treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate
calculation on an annual basis.



See Note 3 of the Combined
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding transmission services.



Employees



As of December 31, 2013, Exelon and its subsidiaries had 25,829 employees in the following companies, of which 8,602 or 33% were covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs):



IBEW Local 15(a)IBEW Local 614(b)Other CBAs(c)Total EmployeesCovered by CBAsTotalEmployeesGeneration1,6901001,9733,76311,973ComEd3,487——3,4875,895PECO—1,254—1,2542,418BGE————3,303Other(d)71—27982,240Total5,2481,3542,0008,60225,829



(a)A separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15, ratified on October 10, 2012, covers approximately 32 employees in ComEd’s System Services Group. Generation’s and
ComEd’s separate CBAs with IBEW Local 15 were extended through February 28, 2014.

(b)1,254 PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory are covered by CBAs with IBEW Local 614. The CBAs expire on March 31, 2015. Additionally,
Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires on November 3, 2016 and covers 107 employees.

(c)During 2013, Generation finalized a CBA with the Security Officer union at Oyster Creek, which will expire in 2016. Additionally, during 2013, three other 3-year
agreements were negotiated: Power, IBEW Local 614, which will expire in 2016; New England ENEH, UWUA Local 369, which will expire in 2017; and New Energy IUOE Local 95-95A, which will expire in 2016. During 2012, Generation finalized CBAs with the
Security Officer unions at Byron, Clinton and TMI, which expire between 2015 and 2016. During 2011, Generation finalized CBAs with the Security Officer unions at Braidwood,






Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities, which expire between 2014 and 2015. During 2010, Generation entered into a CBA with the Security Officer union at Limerick, which expires in 2014. Additionally,
during 2009, a 5-year agreement was reached with Oyster Creek Nuclear Local 1289, which expires in 2015.

(d)Other includes shared services employees at BSC.



Environmental Regulation



General



Exelon, Generation, ComEd, PECO and BGE are subject to comprehensive and complex legislation regarding environmental matters by the federal
government and various state and local jurisdictions in which they operate their facilities. The Registrants are also subject to regulations administered by the U.S. EPA and various state and local environmental protection agencies. Federal, state
and local regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water, and solid and hazardous waste disposal.



The Exelon board of directors is responsible for overseeing the management of environmental matters. Exelon has a management team to address
environmental compliance and strategy, including the CEO; the Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Chief Sustainability Officer; the Corporate Environmental Strategy Director and the Environmental Regulatory Strategy Director, as well as
senior management of Generation, ComEd, PECO and BGE. Performance of those individuals directly involved in environmental compliance and strategy is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual performance review process. The
Exelon board has delegated to its corporate governance committee authority to oversee Exelon’s compliance with laws and regulations and its strategies and efforts to protect and improve the quality of the environment, including, Exelon’s
climate change and sustainability policies and programs, and Exelon 2020, Exelon’s comprehensive business and environmental plan, as discussed in further detail below. The Exelon board has also delegated to its generation oversight committee
authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues relating to Generation. The respective boards of ComEd, PECO and BGE, which each include directors who also serve on the Exelon board, oversee environmental, health and safety issues
related to ComEd, PECO and BGE.



Air Quality



Air quality regulations promulgated by the U.S.
EPA and the various state and local environmental agencies in Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emissions sources. Such permits have been obtained by
Exelon’s subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Clean Air Act establishes a comprehensive and complex national program to reduce substantially air pollution from power plants. Advanced emission controls for SO2and NOx have been installed at all of Generation’s co-owned bituminous coal-fired
units.



See Note 22 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information regarding clean air regulation and legislation in the forms of the CSAPR and CAIR, the regulation of hazardous air pollutants from coal- and oil-fired electric generating facilities under MATS, and
regulation of GHG emissions, in addition to NOVs issued to Generation and ComEd for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act.



Water Quality



Under the Clean Water Act, NPDES permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the U.S. EPA or from the state environmental
agency to which the permit program has been delegated and must be renewed periodically. Certain of Generation’s power generation facilities






discharge industrial wastewater into waterways and are therefore subject to these regulations and operate under NPDES permits or pending applications for renewals of such permits after being
granted an administrative extension.



See Note 22 of the
Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact to Exelon of state permitting agencies’ administration of the Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act.



Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state
and regional agencies and compacts, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission.



Solid and Hazardous Waste



The CERCLA provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the U.S. EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous
substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. EPA either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA,
generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the U.S.
EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These PRPs can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with a U.S. EPA-directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. EPA concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or
may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois, Maryland and Pennsylvania, have also enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially
similar to CERCLA. In addition, RCRA governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted.



Generation, ComEd, PECO and BGE and their subsidiaries are, or are
likely to become, parties to proceedings initiated by the U.S. EPA, state agencies and/or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including MGP sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for
which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third-party.



See Note 22 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding solid and hazardous waste regulation and legislation.



Environmental Remediation



ComEd’s, PECO’s and BGE’s environmental liabilities
primarily arise from contamination at former MGP sites. ComEd, pursuant to an ICC order, and PECO, pursuant to settlements of natural gas distribution rate cases with the PAPUC, have an on-going process to recover environmental remediation costs of
the MGP sites through a provision within customer rates. While BGE does not have a rider for MGP clean-up costs, BGE has historically received recovery of actual clean-up costs on a site-specific basis in distribution rates. The amount to be
expended in 2014 at Exelon for compliance with environmental remediation related to contamination at former MGP sites is expected to total $40 million, consisting of $33 million, $6 million and $1 million at ComEd, PECO and BGE, respectively.



Generation’s environmental liabilities primarily arise
from contamination at current and former generation and waste storage facilities. As of December 31, 2013, Generation has established an appropriate liability to comply with environmental remediation requirements including contamination
attributable to low level radioactive residues at a storage and reprocessing facility named Latty Avenue, and at a disposal facility named West Lake Landfill, both near St. Louis, Missouri related to operations conducted by Cotter Corporation, a
former ComEd subsidiary.






In addition, Generation, ComEd, PECO and BGE may be required to make significant additional
expenditures not presently determinable for other environmental remediation costs.



See Notes 3 and 22 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants’ environmental remediation efforts and related impacts to the
Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows and financial position.



Global Climate Change



Exelon believes the evidence of global climate change is compelling and that the energy industry, though not alone, is a
significant contributor to the human-caused emissions of GHGs that many in the scientific community believe contribute to global climate change, and as reported by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in their Fifth Assessment Report
Summary for Policy Makers issues September 2013. Exelon, as a producer of electricity from predominantly low-carbon generating facilities (such as nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar photovoltaic), has a relatively small GHG emission profile, or
carbon footprint, compared to other domestic generators of electricity. By virtue of its significant investment in low-carbon intensity assets, Generation’s emission intensity, or rate of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO


e) emitted per unit of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the industry. Exelon
does produce GHG emissions, primarily at its fossil fuel-fired generating plants; CO


, methane and nitrous oxide are all emitted in this process, with CO


representing the largest portion of these GHG emissions. GHG emissions from combustion of fossil fuels represent the majority of Exelon’s direct GHG emissions in 2013, although only a small portion of
Exelon’s electric supply is from fossil generating plants. Other GHG emission sources at Exelon include natural gas (methane) leakage on the natural gas systems, sulfur hexafluoride (SF


) leakage in its electric transmission and distribution operations and refrigerant leakage from its chilling and cooling equipment as
well as fossil fuel combustion in its motor vehicles and usage of electricity at its facilities. Despite its focus onlow-carbongeneration, Exelon believes its operations could be significantly affected by
the possible physical risks of climate change and by mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS for information regarding the market and financial, regulatory and legislative, and operational risks associated with
climate change.



Climate Change
Regulation.Exelon is, or may become, subject to climate change regulation or legislation at the Federal, regional and state levels.



International Climate Change Regulation.At the international level, the United States has not yet ratified the United Nations Kyoto
Protocol, which was extended at the 2012 meeting of the United Nations Framework on Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP 18). The Kyoto Protocol now requires participating developed countries to cap GHG emissions at certain levels until
2020, when the new global agreement on emissions reduction is scheduled to become effective. This new global agreement for GHG emissions reductions was agreed to only in concept during the COP18, with a timeline for establishing the global targets
by 2015. On November 22, 2013, at the 2013 COP 19 held in Warsaw, Poland, participating countries further agreed to provide their “intended nationally determined contributions” by the first quarter of 2015 in preparation for formally
setting global target in 2015. The other major issues discussed at COP 19 were demands from developing countries for increased climate finance, and for a new mechanism to help especially vulnerable nations cope with unavoidable “loss and
damage” resulting from climate change. Developed countries, which had previously promised to mobilize a total of $100 billion a year by 2020, refused to set a quantified interim goal for ramping up climate finance.



Federal Climate Change Legislation and Regulation.Various
stakeholders, including Exelon, legislators and regulators, shareholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors are considering ways to address the climate change issue,






including the enactment of federal climate change legislation. It is highly uncertain whether Federal legislation to reduce GHG emissions will be enacted. If such legislation is adopted, Exelon
may incur costs either to further limit or offset the GHG emissions from its operations or to procure emission allowances or credits. In June 2013, the White House released the President’s Climate Action Plan which consists of a wide variety of
executive actions targeting GHG reductions, preparing for the impacts of climate change and showing leadership internationally; but the plan did not directly trigger any new requirements or legislative action.



The U.S. EPA is addressing the issue of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions
regulation for new and existing electric generating units through the New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) under Section 111 of the Clean Air Act. Pursuant to President Obama’s June 25, 2013 memorandum to U.S. EPA, the Agency
re-proposed a Section 111(b) regulation for new units in September 2013 that may result in material costs of compliance for CO2 emissions for new fossil-fuel electric generating units, particularly coal-fired units. Under the President’s
memorandum, the U.S. EPA is also required to propose a Section 111(d) rule no later than June 1, 2014 to establish CO2 emission regulations for existing stationary sources.



Regional and State Climate Change Legislation and Regulation.After a two-year program review, the nine
northeast and mid-Atlantic states currently participating in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Reduction Initiative (RGGI) released an updated RGGI Model Rule and Program Review Recommendations Summary on February 7, 2013. Under the updated RGGI
program, which must be approved pursuant to the applicable legislative and/or regulatory process in each RGGI state, the regional RGGI CO2 budget would be reduced, starting in 2014, from its current 165 million ton level to 91 million
tons, with a 2.5 percent reduction in the cap level each year between 2015-2020. Included in the new program are provisions for cost containment reserve (CCR) allowances, which will become available if the total demand for allowances, above the CCR
trigger price, exceeds the number of CO2 allowances available for purchase at auction. (CCR trigger prices are $4 in 2014, $6 in 2015, $8 in 2016 and $10 in 2017, rising 2.5 percent thereafter to account for inflation). Such an outcome could put
modest upward pressure on wholesale power prices; however, the specifics are currently uncertain.



At the state level, the Illinois Climate Change Advisory Group, created by Executive Order2006-11on October 5, 2006, made its final recommendations on
September 6, 2007 to meet the Governor’s GHG reduction goals. At this time, the only requirements imposed by the state of Illinois are the energy efficiency and renewable portfolio standards in the Illinois Power Act that apply to ComEd.



On December 18, 2009, Pennsylvania issued the
state’s final Climate Change Action Plan. The plan sets as a target a 30 percent reduction in GHG emissions by 2020. The Climate Change Advisory Committee continues to meet quarterly to review Climate Action Work Plans for the residential,
commercial and industrial sectors. The Climate Change Action Plan does not impose any requirements on Generation or PECO at this time.



The Maryland Commission on Climate Change released its climate action plan on August 27, 2008, recommending that the state begin implementing
42 greenhouse gas reduction strategies. One of the Plan’s policy recommendations, to adopt science-based regulatory goals to reduce Maryland’s GHG emissions, was realized with the passage of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Act of
2009 (GGRA). The law requires Maryland to reduce its GHG emissions by 25 percent below 2006 levels by 2020. It directed the MDE to work with other state agencies to prepare an implementation plan to meet this goal. The implementation plan was
published in October of 2013. Maryland targeted electricity consumption reduction goals required under the “Empower Maryland” program, and mandatory State participation in the recently updated and enhanced RGGI Program are listed as that
sector’s contribution in the plan. The plan also advocates raising the renewable portfolio standard requirement from 22% by 2022 to 25% by 2022.






Exelon’s Voluntary Climate Change Efforts. In a world increasingly concerned about global
climate change and regulatory action to reduce GHG, Exelon’s low-carbon generating fleet is seen by management as a competitive advantage. Exelon remains one of the largest, lowest carbon electric generators in the United States: nuclear for
base load, natural gas for marginal and peak demand, hydro and pumped storage, and supplemental wind and solar renewables. As further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of GHG and air pollutants are promulgated,
Exelon’s low-carbon, low-emission generation fleet will position the company to benefit from its comparative advantage over other generation fleets.



With the announcement in 2008 of Exelon 2020, Exelon set a voluntary goal to reduce, offset or displace more than 15.7 million metric tonnes of
GHG emissions per year by 2020. Exelon updated that goal in 2012 following the Constellation merger to account for the integration of former Constellation GHG goals. The updated Exelon 2020 goal is to reduce, offset or displace more than
17.5 million metric tonnes of GHG emissions by 2020. The Exelon 2020 goal encompasses three broad areas of focus: reducing or offsetting Exelon’s own carbon footprint (with the year the asset/operations were acquired by Exelon as the
baseline), helping customers and communities reduce their GHG emissions, and offering more low-carbon electricity in the marketplace. Exelon has been maintaining strong performance towards achieving the goal and anticipates reaching the
17.5 million tons of annual abatement well before 2020.



Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards



Thirty-nine states and the District of Columbia have adopted some form of RPS requirement. As previously described, Illinois, Pennsylvania and
Maryland have laws specifically addressing energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States Congress. Also,
states that currently do not have RPS requirements may adopt such legislation in the future.



The Illinois Settlement Legislation required that procurement plans implemented by electric utilities include cost-effective renewable energy resources or approved equivalents such as RECs in amounts that equal or
exceed 2% of the total electricity that each electric utility supplies to its eligible retail customers by June 1, 2008, increasing to 10% by June 1, 2015, with a goal of 25% by June 1, 2025. Utilities are allowed to pass-through any
costs from the procurement of these renewable resources or approved equivalents subject to legislated rate impact criteria. As of December 31, 2013, ComEd had purchased sufficient renewable energy resources or equivalents, such as RECs, to
comply with the Illinois Settlement Legislation. See Note 3 and Note 22 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



The AEPS Act became effective for PECO on January 1, 2011, following the expiration of PECO’s transition period. During 2013, PECO was
required to supply approximately 4.0% of electric energy generated from Tier I (including solar, wind power, low-impact hydropower, geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy, coal mine methane and black liquor
generated within Pennsylvania) through May 31, 2013 and subsequently 4.5% beginning June 1, 2013 and continuing through May 31, 2014. PECO was also required to supply 6.2% of electric energy generated from Tier II (including waste
coal, demand-side management, large-scale hydropower, municipal solid waste, generation of electricity utilizing wood and by-products of the pulping process and wood, distributed generation systems and integrated combined coal gasification
technology) alternative energy resources, respectively, as measured in AECs. The compliance requirements will incrementally escalate to 8.0% for Tier I and 10.0% for Tier II by 2021. In order to comply with these requirements, PECO entered into
agreements with varying terms with accepted bidders, including Generation, to purchase non-solar Tier I, solar Tier 1 and Tier II AECs. PECO also purchases AECs through its DSP Program full requirement contracts.






Section 7-703 of the Public Utilities Article in Maryland sets forth the RPS requirement, which
applies to all retail electricity sales in Maryland by electricity suppliers. The RPS requirement requires that suppliers obtain a specified percentage of the electricity it sells from Tier 1 sources (solar, wind, biomass, methane, geothermal,
ocean, fuel cell, small hydroelectric, and poultry litter) and Tier 2 sources (hydroelectric, other than pump storage generation, and waste-to-energy). The RPS requirement began in 2006, requiring that suppliers procure 1.0% and 2.5% from Tier
1 and Tier 2 sources, respectively, escalating in 2022 to 22.0% from Tier 1 sources, including at least 2.0% from solar energy, and a phase out of Tier 2 resource options by 2022. In 2013, 8.2% was required from Tier 1 renewable sources, including
at least 0.25% derived from solar energy, and 2.5% from Tier 2 renewable sources. The wholesale suppliers that supply power to the state’s utilities through the SOS procurement auctions have the obligation, by contract with those
utilities, to comply with and provide its proportional share of the RPS requirements.



Similar to ComEd, PECO and BGE, Generation’s retail electric business must source a portion of the electric load it serves in many of the states in which it does business from renewable resources or approved
equivalents such as RECs. Potential regulation and legislation regarding renewable and alternative energy resources could increase the pace of development of wind and other renewable/alternative energy resources, which could put downward pressure on
wholesale market prices for electricity in some markets where Exelon operates generation assets. At the same time, such developments may present some opportunities for sales of Generation’s renewable power, including from wind, solar,
hydroelectric and landfill gas.



See Note 3 and Note 22 of
the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Executive Officers of the Registrants as of February 13, 2014



Exelon



NameAgePositionPeriodCrane, Christopher M.55Chief Executive Officer, Exelon;2012 - PresentChairman, ComEd, PECO & BGE2012 - PresentPresident, Exelon2008 - PresentPresident, Generation2008 - 2013Chief Operating Officer, Exelon2008 - 2012Chief Operating Officer, Generation2007 - 2010Cornew, Kenneth W.48Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon;2013 - PresentPresident and CEO, Generation2013 - PresentExecutive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon2012 - 2013President and Chief Executive Officer, Constellation2012 - 2013Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team2008 - 2012O’Brien, Denis P.53Senior Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, Exelon Utilities2012 - PresentVice Chairman, ComEd, PECO, BGE2012 - PresentChief Executive Officer, PECO; Executive Vice President, Exelon2007 - 2012President and Director, PECO2003 - 2012








NameAgePositionPeriod

Pramaggiore, Anne R.55Chief Executive Officer, ComEd2012 - Present

President, ComEd2009 - Present

Chief Operating Officer, ComEd2009 - 2012

Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd2007 - 2009

Adams, Craig L.61President and Chief Executive Officer, PECO2012 - Present

Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PECO2007 - 2012

DeFontes Jr., Kenneth W.63President and Chief Executive Officer, BGE2004 - Present(a)

Senior Vice President, Constellation Energy2004 - 2012

Gillis, Ruth Ann M.59Executive Vice President, Exelon2008 - Present

Chief Administrative Officer, Exelon2010 - Present

President, Exelon Business Services Company2005 - Present

Chief Diversity Officer, Exelon2009 - 2012

Von Hoene Jr., William A.60Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer, Exelon2012 - Present

Executive Vice President, Finance and Legal, Exelon2009 - 2012

Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon2008 - 2009

Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company2004 - 2009

Thayer, Jonathan W.42Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon2012 - Present

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Constellation Energy; Treasurer, Constellation Energy2008 - 2012

Aliabadi, Paymon51Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer, Exelon2013 - Present

Managing Director, Gleam Capital Management2012 - 2013

Principal and Managing Director, Gunvor International2009 - 2011

Chief Executive Officer, Essent Trading International2004 - 2009

DesParte, Duane M.50Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon2008 - Present



Generation



NameAgePositionPeriodCornew, Kenneth W.48Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon;2013 - PresentPresident and CEO, Generation2013 - PresentExecutive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon2012 - 2013President and Chief Executive Officer, Constellation2012 - 2013Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team2008 - 2012






NameAgePositionPeriodPacilio, Michael J.53President, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President2010 - Presentand Chief Nuclear Officer, GenerationChief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear2007 - 2010Nigro, Joseph49Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, Constellation2013 - PresentSenior Vice President, Portfolio Management and Strategy2012 - 2013Vice President, Structuring and Portfolio Management, Exelon Power Team2010 - 2012DeGregorio, Ronald51Senior Vice President, Generation; President, Exelon Power2012 - PresentChief Integration Officer, Exelon2011 - 2012Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Transmission Company2010 - 2011Senior Vice President, Mid-Atlantic Operations, Exelon Nuclear2007 - 2010Wright, Bryan P.47Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Generation2013 - PresentSenior Vice President, Corporate Finance, Exelon2012 - 2013Chief Accounting Officer, Constellation Energy2009 - 2012Vice President and Controller, Constellation Energy2008 - 2012Aiken, Robert47Vice President and Controller, Generation2012 - PresentExecutive Director and Assistant Controller,2011 - 2012ConstellationExecutive Director of Operational Accounting,2009 - 2011Constellation Energy Commodities GroupVice President of International Accounting,2007 - 2009Constellation Energy Commodities Group



ComEd



NameAgePositionPeriodPramaggiore, Anne R.55Chief Executive Officer, ComEd2012 - PresentPresident, ComEd2009 - PresentChief Operating Officer, ComEd2009 - 2012Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd2007 - 2009Donnelly, Terence R.53Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd2012 - PresentExecutive Vice President, Operations, ComEd2009 - 2012Senior Vice President, Transmission and Distribution, ComEd2007 - 2009Trpik Jr., Joseph R.44Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, ComEd2009 - PresentVice President & Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon Business Services Company2007 - 2009Vice President and Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon2004 - 2009






NameAgePositionPeriodJensen, Val58Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd2012 - PresentVice President, Marketing and Environmental Programs, ComEd2008 - 2012O’Neill, Thomas S.51Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy and General Counsel, ComEd2010 - PresentSenior Vice President, Exelon2009 - 2010Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Generation; Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Exelon2009 - 2009Vice President, New Plant Development, Generation2007 - 2009Marquez Jr., Fidel52Senior Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, Exelon2012 - PresentSenior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd2009 - 2012Vice President of External Affairs and Large Customer Services, ComEd2007 - 2009Brookins, Kevin B.52Senior Vice President, Strategy & Administration, ComEd2012 - PresentVice President, Operational Strategy and Business Intelligence, ComEd2010 - 2012Vice President, Distribution System Operations, ComEd2008 - 2010Anthony, J. Tyler49Senior Vice President, Distribution Operations, ComEd2010 - PresentVice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd2007 - 2010Kozel, Gerald J.41Vice President, Controller, ComEd2013 - PresentAssistant Corporate Controller, Exelon2012 - 2013Director of Financial Reporting and Analysis, Exelon2009 - 2012Manager of Accounting, ComEd2008 - 2009



PECO



NameAgePositionPeriodAdams, Craig L.61President and Chief Executive Officer, PECO2012 - PresentSenior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PECO2007 - 2012Barnett, Phillip S.50Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PECO2007 - PresentTreasurer, PECO2012 - PresentInnocenzo, Michael A.48Senior Vice President and Chief Operations Officer, PECO2012 - PresentVice President, Distribution System Operations and Smart Grid/Smart Meter, PECO2010 - 2012Vice President, Distribution System Operations2007 - 2010






NameAgePositionPeriodWebster Jr., Richard G.52Vice President, Regulatory Policy and Strategy, PECO2012 - PresentDirector of Rates and Regulatory Affairs2007 - 2012Murphy, Elizabeth A.54Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO2012 - PresentDirector, Governmental & External Affairs, PECO2007 - 2012Jiruska, Frank J.53Vice President, Customer Operations, PECO2013 - PresentDiaz Jr., Romulo L.67Vice President and General Counsel, PECO2012 - PresentVice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO2009 - 2012Associate General Counsel, Exelon2008 - 2009Bailey, Scott A.37Vice President and Controller, PECO2012 - PresentAssistant Controller, Generation2011 - 2012Director of Accounting, Power Team2007 - 2011



BGE



NameAgePositionPeriodDeFontes Jr., Kenneth W.63President and Chief Executive Officer, BGE2004 - Present(a)Senior Vice President, Constellation Energy2004 - 2012Woerner, Stephen J.46Chief Operating Officer, BGE2012 - PresentSenior Vice President, BGE2009 - PresentVice President and Chief Integration Officer, Constellation Energy2011 - 2012Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Constellation Energy2010 - 2011Vice President, Transformation, Constellation Energy2009 - 2010Senior Vice President, Gas and Electric Operations and Planning, BGE2007 - 2009Khouzami, Carim V.38Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, BGE2013 - PresentVice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, BGE2011 - 2013Executive Director, Investor Relations, Constellation Energy2009 - 2011Director, Corporate Strategy and Development, Constellation Energy2008 - 2009Butler, Calvin44Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, BGE2013 - Present(a)Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Exelon2011 - 2013Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Exelon2010 - 2011Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, ComEd2009 - 2010






NameAgePositionPeriodCase, Mark D.52Vice President, Strategy and Regulatory Affairs, BGE2012 - PresentSenior Vice President, Strategy and Regulatory Affairs, BGE2007 - 2012Dodson, Carol A.49Vice President, Customer Operations, BGE2013 - PresentChief Customer Officer, BGE2013 - PresentVice President, Utility Oversight, BSC2012 - 2013Vice President, Engineering and Project Management, BGE2012 - 2012Senior Vice President, Asset Management Services, BGE2009 - 2012Gahagan, Daniel P.60Vice President and General Counsel, BGE2007 - PresentVahos, David M.41Vice President and Controller, BGE2012 - PresentExecutive Director, Audit, Constellation2010 - 2012Director, Finance, BGE2006 - 2010



(a)On February 12, 2014, Kenneth W. DeFontes Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer at BGE announced his retirement from BGE on February 28, 2014. Effective
March 1, 2014, Calvin G. Butler Jr. will become Chief Executive Officer of BGE and an executive officer of Exelon and Stephen J. Woerner will become President and continue as Chief Operating Officer of BGE.



