ITEM 1.BUSINESS



General



Corporate Structure and Business and Other Information



Exelon, incorporated in Pennsylvania in February 1999, is a utility services holding company engaged, through its principal subsidiary, Generation, in the energy generation business, and through its principal
subsidiaries ComEd, PECO and BGE, in the energy delivery businesses discussed below. Exelon’s principal executive offices are located at 10 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603, and its telephone number is 312-394-7398.



Generation



Generation’s integrated business consists of its owned and
contracted electric generating facilities and investments in generation ventures that are marketed through its leading customer-facing activities. These customer-facing activities include, wholesale energy marketing operations and its competitive
retail customer supply of electric and natural gas products and services, including renewable energy products, risk management services and natural gas exploration and production activities. Generation has six reportable segments consisting of the
Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, New England, New York, ERCOT and Other regions.



Generation was formed in 2000 as a Pennsylvania limited liability company. Generation began operations as a result of a corporate restructuring, effective January 1, 2001, in which Exelon separated its
generation and other competitive businesses from its regulated energy delivery businesses at ComEd and PECO. Generation’s principal executive offices are located at 300 Exelon Way, Kennett Square, Pennsylvania 19348, and its telephone number is
610-765-5959.



ComEd



ComEd’s energy delivery business consists of the purchase and
regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago.



ComEd was organized in the State of Illinois in 1913 as a result of the
merger of Cosmopolitan Electric Company into the original corporation named Commonwealth Edison Company, which was incorporated in 1907. ComEd’s principal executive offices are located at 440 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60605, and
its telephone number is 312-394-4321.



PECO



PECO’s energy delivery business consists of the
purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of
natural gas and the provision of gas distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia.



PECO was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1929. PECO’s principal executive offices are located at 2301 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
19103, and its telephone number is 215-841-4000.



BGE



BGE’s energy delivery business consists of the
purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in central Maryland,






including the City of Baltimore, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of gas distribution services to retail customers in central Maryland, including
the City of Baltimore.



BGE was incorporated in Maryland in
1906. BGE’s principal executive offices are located at 110 West Fayette Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21201, and its telephone number is 410-234-5000.



Operating Segments



See Note 21 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Exelon’s operating segments.



Merger with Constellation Energy Group, Inc.



On March 12, 2012, Exelon completed the merger contemplated by
the Merger Agreement among Exelon, Bolt Acquisition Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon (Merger Sub), and Constellation Energy Group, Inc. As a result of that merger, Merger Sub was merged into Constellation (the Initial Merger) and
Constellation became a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon. Following the completion of the Initial Merger, Exelon and Constellation completed a series of internal corporate organizational restructuring transactions. Constellation merged with and into
Exelon, with Exelon continuing as the surviving corporation (the Upstream Merger). Simultaneously with the Upstream Merger, Constellation’s interest in RF HoldCo LLC, which holds Constellation’s interest in BGE, was transferred to Exelon
Energy Delivery Company, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon that also owns Exelon’s interests in ComEd and PECO. Following the Upstream Merger and the transfer of RF HoldCo LLC, Exelon contributed to Generation certain subsidiaries,
including those with generation and customer supply operations that were acquired from Constellation as a result of the Initial Merger and the Upstream Merger. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information on the Constellation transaction.



Generation



Generation is one of the largest competitive electric generation companies in the United States, as measured by owned and contracted MW. Generation
creates incremental strategic value by operating as an integrated business and matching its large generation fleet with a leading customer-facing platform. Generation’s presence in well-developed energy markets, its integrated hedging
strategy mitigating short-term market volatility, and its low-cost nuclear generating fleet operating consistently at high capacity factors, position it well to succeed in competitive energy markets.



Generation’s customer-facing business, now referred to as
Constellation, utilizes Generation’s energy generation portfolio to ensure delivery of energy to both wholesale and retail customers under long-term and short-term contracts, and in spot markets. Generation also sells other energy-related
products and other services to meet its customers’ requirements. Generation is dependent upon continued deregulation of retail electric and gas markets and its ability to generate and obtain supplies of electricity and gas at competitive
prices in the market.



Generation is a public utility under
the Federal Power Act, and is subject to FERC’s exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. Under the Federal Power Act, FERC has the authority to grant or
deny market-based rates for sales of energy, capacity and ancillary services to ensure that such sales are just and reasonable. FERC’s jurisdiction over ratemaking also includes the authority to suspend the market-based rates of utilities
(including Generation, which is a public utility as FERC defines that term) and set cost-based rates should FERC find that its previous grant of market-based rates authority is no longer just and reasonable. Other matters subject to FERC
jurisdiction include, but are not limited to, third-party






financings; review of mergers; dispositions of jurisdictional facilities and acquisitions of securities of another public utility or an existing operational generating facility; affiliate
transactions; intercompany financings and cash management arrangements; certain internal corporate reorganizations; and certain holding company acquisitions of public utility and holding company securities. Additionally, ERCOT is not subject to
regulation by FERC but performs a similar function in Texas. Specific operations of Generation are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies, including the NRC and Federal and state environmental
protection agencies. Additionally, Generation is subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the NERC, with the approval of FERC.



RTOs exist in a number of regions to provide transmission service across multiple transmission systems. CAISO, PJM, MISO, ISO-NE, ISO-NY and SPP,
have been approved by FERC as RTOs. These entities are responsible for regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability, market monitoring, the scheduling of physical
power sales brokered through ICE and NYMEX and the elimination or reduction of redundant transmission charges imposed by multiple transmission providers when wholesale customers take transmission service across several transmission systems.



Significant Acquisitions



Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One.On
September 30, 2011, Generation acquired Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One (Antelope Valley), a 230-MW solar photovoltaic (PV) project under development in northern Los Angeles County, California, from First Solar, which developed and will build,
operate, and maintain the project. The first block began operations in December 2012, with three additional blocks coming online in February 2013 and an expectation of full commercial operation by the end of the third quarter of 2013. When fully
operational, Antelope Valley will be one of the largest PV solar projects in the world, with approximately 3.8 million solar panels generating enough clean, renewable electricity to power the equivalent of 75,000 average homes per year. The
project has a 25-year PPA, approved by the California Public Utilities Commission, with Pacific Gas & Electric Company for the full output of the plant. Exelon expects to invest up to $701 million in equity in the project through 2013. The
DOE’s Loan Programs Office issued a loan guarantee of up to $646 million to support project financing for Antelope Valley. Exelon expects the total investment of up to $1.3 billion to be accretive to earnings and cash flows beginning in 2013.
Once constructed and operating, the project is expected to have stable earnings and cash flow profiles due to the PPA.



Wolf Hollow Generating Station.On August 24, 2011, Generation completed the acquisition of all of the equity interests of
Wolf Hollow, LLC (Wolf Hollow), a combined-cycle natural gas-fired power plant in north Texas, for a purchase price of $311 million which increased Generation’s owned capacity within the ERCOT power market by 720 MWs.



Exelon Wind.In 2010, Generation acquired 735 MWs of
installed, operating wind capacity located in eight states for approximately $893 million in cash. In addition, Generation acquired development stage projects which became fully operational in 2012.



See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information on the above acquisitions.



Significant
Dispositions



Maryland Clean Coal Stations.Associated with certain of the regulatory approvals required for the merger, Exelon and Constellation agreed to enter into contracts to sell three Constellation generating stations, Brandon Shores and H.A. Wagner in Anne Arundel County,
Maryland, and C.P. Crane in Baltimore County, Maryland within 150 days (subsequently extended 30 days by the DOJ)






following the merger completion. In accordance with that agreement, on November 30, 2012, a subsidiary of Generation sold these three Maryland generating stations and associated assets to
Raven Power Holdings LLC, a subsidiary of Riverstone Holdings LLC for estimated net proceeds from the sale of approximately $371 million, which resulted in a pre-tax loss of $272 million. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information.



Generating Resources



At December 31, 2012, the generating
resources of Generation consisted of the following:



Type of CapacityMWOwned generation
assets(a)Nuclear17,202Fossil12,050Renewable (including Hydroelectric)(b)3,516Owned generation assets32,768Long-term contracts(c)9,296Investment in CENG(d)1,963Total generating resources44,027



(a)See “Fuel” for sources of fuels used in electric generation.

(b)Includes equity method investment in certain generating facilities.

(c)Excludes contracts with CENG. See Long-Term Contracts table in this section for additional information.

(d)Generation owns a 50.01% interest in CENG, a joint venture with EDF. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Generation and Note 22—Related Party Transactions of the Combined
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.





Nuclear Facilities



Generation has ownership interests in eleven nuclear generating stations currently in service, consisting of 19 units with an aggregate of 17,202 MW of capacity. Generation wholly owns all of its nuclear generating
stations, except for Quad Cities Generating Station (75% ownership), Peach Bottom Generating Station (50% ownership) and Salem Generating Station (Salem) (42.59% ownership). Generation’s nuclear generating stations are all operated by
Generation, with the exception of the two units at Salem, which are operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC (PSEG Nuclear), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of PSEG. In 2012 and 2011, electric supply (in GWh) generated from






the nuclear generating facilities was 53% and 82%, respectively, of Generation’s total electric supply, which also includes fossil, hydroelectric and renewable generation and electric supply
purchased for resale. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generation’s wholesale and retail power marketing activities. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS for further discussion of Generation’s electric supply sources.



Constellation Energy Nuclear Group, Inc.



Generation also owns a 50.01% interest in CENG, a joint venture with EDF. CENG is governed by a board of ten directors, five of which are appointed by Generation and five by EDF. CENG owns and operates a total
of five nuclear generating facilities on three sites, Calvert Cliffs, Ginna and Nine Mile Point. CENG’s ownership share in the total capacity of these units is 3,925 MW. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES for additional information on these sites.



Generation has a unit contingent PPA with CENG under which
it purchases 85 to 90% of the output of CENG’s nuclear generating facilities that is not sold to third parties under the pre-existing PPAs through 2014. Beginning on January 1, 2015, and continuing to the end of the lives of the
respective nuclear facilities, Generation will purchase 50.01% and EDF will purchase 49.99% of the output of the CENG’s nuclear facilities. All commitments to purchase subsequent to December 31, 2014 are at market prices. See Note
22—Related Party Transactions of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding CENG.



Nuclear Operations.Capacity factors, which are significantly affected by the number and duration of refueling and non-refueling
outages, can have a significant impact on Generation’s results of operations. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services that its business requires.
Generation’s operations from its nuclear plants have historically had minimal environmental impact and the plants have a safe operating history.



During 2012 and 2011, the nuclear generating facilities operated by Generation achieved capacity factors of 92.7% and 93.3%, respectively.
Generation manages its scheduled refueling outages to minimize their duration and to maintain high nuclear generating capacity factors, resulting in a stable generation base for Generation’s wholesale and retail marketing and trading
activities. During scheduled refueling outages, Generation performs maintenance and equipment upgrades in order to minimize the occurrence of unplanned outages and to maintain safe, reliable operations.



In addition to the rigorous maintenance and equipment upgrades
performed by Generation during scheduled refueling outages, Generation has extensive operating and security procedures in place to ensure the safe operation of the nuclear units. Generation has extensive safety systems in place to protect the plant,
personnel and surrounding area in the unlikely event of an accident.



Regulation of Nuclear Power Generation.Generation is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC with respect to the operation of its nuclear generating stations, including the licensing for operation of
each unit. The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations to continuing review and regulation covering, among other things, operations, maintenance, emergency planning, security and environmental and radiological aspects of those stations. As part of
its reactor oversight process, the NRC continuously assesses unit performance indicators and inspection results, and communicates its assessment on a semi-annual basis. As of December 31, 2012, the NRC categorized each unit operated by
Generation in the Licensee Response Column, which is the highest of five performance bands. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke operating licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under
such Act or the terms of the operating licenses. Changes in






regulations by the NRC may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures for nuclear generating facilities and/or increased operating costs of nuclear generating units.



On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a 9.0 magnitude earthquake
and ensuing tsunami that seriously damaged the nuclear units at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which are operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co. For additional information on the NRC actions related to the Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and
the industry’s response, see ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—Executive Overview.



Licenses.Generation has 40-year operating
licenses from the NRC for each of its nuclear units and has received 20-year operating license renewals for Peach Bottom Units 2 and 3, Dresden Units 2 and 3, Quad Cities Units 1 and 2, Oyster Creek and Three Mile Island Unit 1. Additionally, PSEG
has 40-year operating licenses from the NRC and on June 30, 2011, received 20-year operating license renewals for Salem Units 1 and 2. On December 8, 2010, in connection with an Administrative Consent Order (ACO) with the NJDEP, Exelon
announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. The following table summarizes the current operating license expiration dates for Generation’s nuclear facilities in service:



StationUnitIn-ServiceDate(a)Current LicenseExpirationBraidwood119882026219882027Byron119852024219872026Clinton119872026Dresden(b)219702029319712031LaSalle119842022219842023Limerick(c)119862024219902029Oyster Creek(b)(d)119692029Peach Bottom(b)219742033319742034Quad Cities(b)119732032219732032Salem(b)119772036219812040Three Mile Island(b)119742034



(a)Denotes year in which nuclear unit began commercial operations.

(b)Stations for which the NRC has issued a renewed operating licenses.

(c)On June 22, 2011, Generation submitted applications to the NRC to extend the operating licenses of Limerick Units 1 and 2 by 20 years.

(d)In December, 2010, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019.



Generation expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals
for the remaining nuclear units. The operating license renewal process takes approximately four to five years from the commencement of the renewal process until completion of the NRC’s review. The NRC review process takes approximately two
years from the docketing of an application. Each requested license renewal is expected to be for 20 years beyond the original license expiration. Depreciation provisions are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which reflect the
actual and assumed renewal of operating licenses for all of Generation’s operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek.






In August 2012, Generation entered into an operating services agreement with the Omaha Public Power
District (OPPD) to provide operational and managerial support services for the Fort Calhoun Station and a licensing agreement for use of the Exelon Nuclear Management Model. The terms for both agreements are 20 years. OPPD will continue to own
the plant and remain the NRC licensee.



Nuclear Uprate
Program.Generation is engaged in individual projects as part of a planned power uprate program across its nuclear fleet. Using proven technologies, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new materials
and application of expertise gained from a half-century of nuclear power operations. The uprates are being undertaken pursuant to an organized, strategically sequenced implementation plan. The implementation effort includes a periodic review and
refinement of the plan in light of changing market conditions. Decisions to implement uprates at particular nuclear plants, the amount of expenditures to implement the plan, and the actual MWs of additional capacity attributable to the uprate
program will be determined on a project-by-project basis in accordance with Exelon’s normal project evaluation standards and ultimately will depend on market conditions, economic and policy considerations, and other factors.



Based on recent reviews, the nuclear uprate implementation plan was
adjusted during 2012, primarily as a result of market conditions, including low natural gas prices and the continued sluggish economy, resulting in the deferral or cancellation of certain projects. In addition, the ability to implement several
projects requires the successful resolution of various technical matters. The resolution of these matters may further affect the timing and amount of the power increases associated with the power uprate initiative. Following these reviews, any
projects that may be undertaken are expected to be completed by the end of 2021, and may result in between 1,125 and 1,200 MWs of additional capacity at an overnight cost of approximately $3.4 billion in 2013 dollars. Overnight costs do not include
financing costs or cost escalation.





New Nuclear Site Development.On August 28, 2012, Exelon halted efforts to gain initial federal regulatory approvals for new
nuclear construction in Victoria County, Texas and notified the Nuclear Regulatory Commission that it has withdrawn its related Early Site Permit application. The action is in response to low natural gas prices and economic and market conditions
that have made construction






of new merchant nuclear power plants in competitive markets uneconomical now and for the foreseeable future. The withdrawal of the license application brings an end to all project activity.



Nuclear Waste Disposal.There are no
facilities for the reprocessing or permanent disposal of SNF currently in operation in the United States, nor has the NRC licensed any such facilities. Generation currently stores all SNF generated by its nuclear generating facilities in on-site
storage pools or in dry cask storage facilities. Since Generation’s SNF storage pools generally do not have sufficient storage capacity for the life of the respective plant, Generation has developed dry cask storage facilities to support
operations.



As of December 31, 2012, Generation had
approximately 58,100 SNF assemblies (13,900 tons) stored on site in SNF pools or dry cask storage (this includes SNF assemblies at Zion Station, for which Generation retains ownership even though the responsibility for decommissioning Zion Station
has been assumed by another party; see Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Zion Station Decommissioning). All currently operating Generation-owned nuclear sites have on-site dry
cask storage, except for Clinton and Three Mile Island. Clinton and Three Mile Island will lose full core reserve, which is when the on-site storage pool will no longer have sufficient space to receive a full complement of fuel from the reactor
core, in 2015 and 2023, respectively. Dry cask storage will be in operation at Clinton and Three Mile Island prior to the closing of their respective on-site storage pools. On-site dry cask storage in concert with on-site storage pools will be
capable of meeting all current and future SNF storage requirements at Generation’s sites through the end of the license renewal periods, and through decommissioning.



For a discussion of matters associated with Generation’s contracts
with the DOE for the disposal of SNF, see Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



As a by-product of their operations, nuclear generating units produce LLRW. LLRW is accumulated at each generating station and permanently disposed
of at federally licensed disposal facilities. The Federal Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980 provides that states may enter into agreements to provide regional disposal facilities for LLRW and restrict use of those facilities to waste
generated within the region. Illinois and Kentucky have entered into an agreement, although neither state currently has an operational site and none is anticipated to be operational until after 2020.



Generation is currently utilizing on-site storage capacity at its
nuclear generation stations for limited amounts of LLRW and has been shipping its Class A LLRW, which represent 93% of LLRW generated at its stations, to disposal facilities in Utah and South Carolina. The disposal facility in South Carolina at
present is only receiving LLRW from LLRW generators in South Carolina, New Jersey (which includes Oyster Creek and Salem), and Connecticut. Generation has received NRC approval for its Peach Bottom and LaSalle stations that will allow storage at
these sites of LLRW from its remaining stations with limited capacity. Generation now has enough storage capacity to store all Class B and C LLRW for the life of all stations in Generation’s nuclear fleet. During 2012, Generation entered into a
six year contract to ship Class B and Class C LLRW to Texas. The terms of the agreement will provide for disposal of all current Class B and Class C LLRW stored at the stations, as well as the waste generated during the term of the agreement.
Generation continues to pursue alternative disposal strategies for LLRW, including an LLRW reduction program to minimize cost impacts and on-site storage.



Nuclear Insurance.Generation is subject to liability, property damage and other risks associated with a major accidental outage at
any of its nuclear stations. Generation has reduced its financial exposure to these risks through insurance and other industry risk-sharing provisions. See “Nuclear Insurance” within Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for details.






For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Generation. Generation
is self-insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained or are within the policy deductible for its insured losses. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon’s and Generation’s financial
condition and results of operations.



Decommissioning.NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. See
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—Exelon Corporation, Executive Overview; ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Nuclear Decommissioning, Asset Retirement Obligations and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments; and Notes 3, 9 and 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding Generation’s NDT funds and its decommissioning obligations.



Dresden Unit 1 and Peach Bottom Unit 1 have ceased power generation. SNF at Dresden Unit 1 is currently being stored in dry cask storage until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. All SNF for Peach
Bottom Unit 1, which ceased operation in 1974, has been removed from the site and the SNF pool is drained and decontaminated. Generation’s estimated liability to decommission Dresden Unit 1 and Peach Bottom Unit 1 as of December 31, 2012
was $195 million and $121 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, NDT funds set aside to pay for these obligations were $390 million.



Zion Station Decommissioning.On December 11, 2007, Generation entered into an Asset Sale Agreement (ASA) with EnergySolutions, Inc. and
its wholly owned subsidiaries, EnergySolutions, LLC (EnergySolutions) and ZionSolutions, LLC (ZionSolutions) under which ZionSolutions has assumed responsibility for decommissioning Zion Station, which is located in Zion, Illinois and ceased
operation in 1998.



On September 1, 2010, Generation
and EnergySolutions completed the transactions contemplated by the ASA. Specifically, Generation transferred to ZionSolutions substantially all of the assets (other than land) associated with Zion Station, including assets held in related NDT funds.
In consideration for Generation’s transfer of those assets, ZionSolutions assumed decommissioning and other liabilities associated with Zion Station. Pursuant to the ASA, ZionSolutions can periodically request reimbursement from the Zion
Station-related NDT funds for costs incurred related to the decommissioning efforts at Zion Station. However, ZionSolutions is subject to certain restrictions on its ability to request reimbursement; specifically, if certain milestones as defined in
the ASA are not met, all or a portion of requested reimbursements shall be deferred until such milestones are met. See Note 13 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Zion Station
Decommissioning and see Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of variable interest entity considerations related to ZionSolutions.



Fossil and Renewable Facilities (including Hydroelectric)



Generation has ownership interests in 15,566 MW of capacity in fossil
and renewable generating facilities currently in service. Generation wholly owns all of its fossil and renewable generating stations, with the exception of: (1) jointly-owned facilities that include Keystone, Conemaugh, and Wyman;
(2) ownership interests through equity method investments in Colver, Malacha, Safe Harbor, and Sunnyside; and (3) certain wind project entities with minority interest owners. Generation’s fossil and renewable generating stations are
all operated by Generation, with the exception of Colver, Conemaugh, Keystone, LaPorte, Malacha, Safe Harbor, Sunnyside and Wyman, which are operated






by third parties. In 2012 and 2011, electric supply (in GWh) generated from owned fossil and renewable generating facilities was 12% and 7%, respectively, of Generation’s total electric
supply. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generation’s wholesale and retail power marketing activities. For additional information regarding Generation’s electric generating facilities, see ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES—Generation.



Exelon
Wind.During 2012, six development projects with a combined capacity of approximately 400 MWs began commercial operations. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS—Exelon Corporation, Executive Overview for additional information.



Licenses.Fossil and renewable generation plants are generally not licensed, and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. FERC has the exclusive authority
to license most non-Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways or Federal lands, or connected to the interstate electric grid. On August 29, 2012 and August 30, 2012, Generation submitted hydroelectric license applications
to the FERC for 46-year licenses for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Project and the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project, respectively. The FERC review process is scheduled to be completed by August 31, 2014 and September 1, 2014, when the
current Conowingo and Muddy Run licenses expire.



Insurance.Generation maintains business interruption insurance for its renewable projects, and delay in start-up insurance for its
renewable projects currently under construction. Generation does not purchase business interruption insurance for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric operations. Generation maintains both property damage and liability insurance. For property
damage and liability claims for these operations, Generation is self-insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon’s
and Generation’s financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Generation.



Long-Term Contracts



In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation
sells electricity purchased under long-term contracts. The following tables summarize Generation’s long-term contracts to purchase unit-specific physical power with an original term in excess of one year in duration, by region, in effect as of
December 31, 2012:



RegionNumber ofAgreementsExpiration DatesCapacity (MW)Mid-Atlantic(a)132013 - 2032973Midwest102013 - 20262,981New England62015 - 2020637New York(a)12013100ERCOT32013 - 20221,088Other Regions102015 - 20303,517Total439,296



20132014201520162017Capacity Expiring (MW)1,369551,73042,083



(a)Excludes contracts with CENG.






Fuel



The following table shows sources of electric supply in GWh for 2012 and 2011:



Source of Electric Supply(a)20122011Nuclear139,862139,297Purchases—non-trading portfolio(b)91,99418,908Fossil27,7607,385Renewable4,0794,253Total supply263,695169,843



(a)Represents Generation’s proportionate share of the output of its generating plants.

(b)Includes purchases in 2012 pursuant to Generation’s PPA with CENG. See Note 22 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



The fuel costs for nuclear generation are
less than for fossil-fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost-effective way for Generation to meet its wholesale and retail load servicing requirements.



The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium
concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all
of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2016. Generation’s contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2020. All of Generation’s enrichment requirements have been
contracted through 2017. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2018. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment or fabrication services to meet the nuclear
fuel requirements of its nuclear units.



Natural gas is
procured through long-term and short-term contracts, and spot-market purchases. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the
remaining months to take advantage of favorable market pricing. Coal is procured primarily through annual supply contracts, with the remainder supplied through either short-term or spot-market purchases.



Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated
with certain commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk, using both over-the-counter and exchange-traded instruments. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS, ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 10 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments.



Power Marketing



Generation’s integrated business operations include the physical delivery and marketing of power obtained through
its generation capacity and through long-term, intermediate-term and short-term contracts. Generation maintains an effective supply strategy through ownership of generation assets and power purchase and lease agreements. Generation has also
contracted for access to additional generation through bilateral long-term PPAs. PPAs are commitments related to power generation of specific generation plants and/or are dispatchable in nature similar to asset ownership depending on






the type of underlying asset. Generation secures contracted generation as part of its overall strategic plan, with objectives such as obtaining low-cost energy supply sources to meet its physical
delivery obligations to both wholesale and retail customers and assisting customers to meet renewable portfolio standards. Generation may buy power to meet the energy demand of its customers, including ComEd, PECO and BGE. Generation sells
electricity, natural gas, and related products and solutions to various customers, including distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and commercial, industrial, governmental, and residential customers in competitive markets.
Generation’s customer facing operations combine a unified sales force with a customer-centric model that leverages technology to broaden the range of products and solutions offered, which Generation believes promotes stronger customer
relationships. This model focuses on efficiency and cost reduction, which provides a platform that is scalable and able to capitalize on opportunities for future growth.



Generation’s purchases may be for more than the energy demanded by
Generation’s customers. Generation then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale electricity markets. Where necessary, Generation also purchases transmission service to ensure that it has
reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs in markets without an organized RTO. Generation also incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including
potentially reserving capacity to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer-than-normal weather conditions. Generation actively manages these physical and contractual assets in order to derive incremental value. Additionally, Generation
is involved in the development, exploration, and harvesting of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids properties.



Price Supply Risk Management








At December 31, 2012, Generation’s short and long-term commitments relating to the purchase
of energy and capacity from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows:



Net CapacityPurchases(a)Power-RelatedPurchases(b)Transmission RightsPurchases(c)Purchased Energyfrom CENGTotal2013$374$95$28$777$1,2742014353692651696420153502513—3882016266112—279201720332—208Thereafter469534—508Total$2,015$208$105$1,293$3,621



(a)Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts including those that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent
Generation’s expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2012, net of fixed capacity payments expected to be received by Generation under contracts to resell such acquired capacity to third parties under long-term capacity
sale contracts. Expected payments include certain capacity charges which are contingent on plant availability.

(b)Power-Related Purchases include firm REC purchase agreements. The table excludes renewable energy purchases that are contingent in nature.

(c)Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts.



As part of reaching a comprehensive agreement with EDF in October 2010,
the existing power purchase agreements with CENG were modified to be unit-contingent through the end of their original term in 2014. Under these agreements, CENG has the ability to fix the energy price on a forward basis by entering into monthly
energy hedge transactions for a portion of the future sale, while any unhedged portions will be provided at market prices by default. Additionally, beginning in 2015 and continuing to the end of the life of the respective plants, Generation agreed
to purchase 50.01% of the available output of CENG’s nuclear plants at market prices. Generation discloses in the table above commitments to purchase from CENG at fixed prices. All commitments to purchase from CENG at market prices, which
include all purchases subsequent to December 31, 2014, are excluded from the table. Generation continues to own a 50.01% membership interest in CENG that is accounted for as an equity method investment. See Note 22 of the Combined Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on this arrangement.



Capital Expenditures



Generation’s business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in nuclear fuel and energy generation assets and in other
internal infrastructure projects. Generation’s estimated capital expenditures for 2013 are as follows:



(in millions)Nuclear fuel(a)$1,000Production plant1,000Renewable energy projects(b)575Uprates225Other50Total$2,850



(a)Includes Generation’s share of the investment in nuclear fuel for the co-owned Salem plant.

(b)Primarily relates to expenditures for the completion of the Antelope Valley development project.






ComEd



ComEd is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale
of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to a diverse base of residential, commercial and industrial customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is a public utility under the Illinois Public Utilities Act subject to
regulation by the ICC related to distribution rates and service, the issuance of securities, and certain other aspects of ComEd’s business. ComEd is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to
transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEd’s business. Specific operations of ComEd are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, ComEd is subject to NERC mandatory
reliability standards.



ComEd’s retail service
territory has an area of approximately 11,400 square miles and an estimated population of 9 million. The service territory includes the City of Chicago, an area of about 225 square miles with an estimated population of 2.7 million. ComEd has
approximately 3.8 million customers.



ComEd’s
franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ComEd’s franchise rights are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience issued by the ICC. With
few exceptions, the franchise rights have stated expiration dates ranging from 2013 to 2066. ComEd anticipates working with the appropriate agencies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration.



ComEd’s kWh deliveries and peak electricity load are generally
higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. ComEd’s highest peak load occurred on July 20, 2011, and was 23,753 MWs; its highest peak load during a winter
season occurred on January 15, 2009, and was 16,328 MWs.



Retail
Electric Services



Under Illinois law, transmission
and distribution services are regulated, while electric customers are allowed to purchase electricity supply from a competitive retail electric supplier.



Electric revenues and purchased power expense are affected by fluctuations in customers’ purchases from competitive retail electric suppliers.
All ComEd customers have the ability to purchase energy from an alternative retail electric supplier. The customer choice activity affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy; however, that activity has no impact on electric
revenue net of purchased power expense. ComEd’s cost of electric supply is passed directly through to default service customers without markup and those rates are subject to adjustment monthly to recover or refund the difference between
ComEd’s actual cost of electricity delivered and the amount included in rates. For those customers that choose a competitive electric generation supplier, ComEd acts as the billing agent but does not record revenues or expenses related to the
electric supply. ComEd remains the distribution service provider for all customers in its service territory and charges a regulated rate for distribution service. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for additional information on customer switching to alternative electric generation suppliers, and Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEd’s electricity
procurement process and for additional information.



Under
Illinois law, ComEd is required to deliver electricity to all customers. ComEd’s obligation to provide generation supply service, which is referred to as a POLR obligation, primarily varies by customer size. ComEd’s obligation to provide
such service to residential customers and other small customers with demands of under 100 kWs continues for all customers who do not or cannot choose a






competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to ComEd after taking service from a competitive electric generation supplier. ComEd does not have a fixed-price generation supply
service obligation to most of its largest customers with demands of 100 kWs or greater, as this group of customers has previously been declared competitive. Customers with competitive declarations may still purchase power and energy from ComEd, but
only at hourly market prices.



Energy Infrastructure
Modernization Act (EIMA).Since 2011, ComEd’s distribution rates are established through a performance-based rate formula, pursuant to EIMA. EIMA also provides a structure for substantial capital investment by utilities over a ten-year
period to modernize Illinois’ electric utility infrastructure. In addition, as long as ComEd is subject to EIMA, ComEd will fund customer assistance programs for low-income customers, which amounts will not be recoverable through rates.



ComEd files an annual reconciliation of the revenue
requirement in effect in a given year to reflect the actual costs that the ICC determines are prudently and reasonably incurred for such year. Under the terms of EIMA, ComEd’s target rate of return on common equity is subject to reduction if
ComEd does not deliver the reliability and customer service benefits, as defined, it has committed to over the ten-year life of the investment program. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Electric Distribution Rate Cases. The ICC issued an
order in ComEd’s 2007 electric distribution rate case (2007 Rate Case) approving a $274 million increase in ComEd’s annual delivery services revenue requirement, which became effective in September 2008. In the order, the ICC authorized a
10.3% rate of return on common equity. On February 23, 2012, the ICC issued an order in the remand proceeding requiring ComEd to provide a refund of approximately $37 million to customers related to the treatment of post-test year accumulated
depreciation. On March 26, 2012, ComEd filed a notice of appeal. ComEd has recognized for accounting purposes its best estimate of any refund obligation.



On May 24, 2011, the ICC issued an order in ComEd’s 2010 electric distribution rate case, which became effective on June 1, 2011. The
order approved a $143 million increase to ComEd’s annual delivery service revenue requirement and a 10.5% rate of return on common equity. The order has been appealed to the Court by several parties. ComEd cannot predict the results of these
appeals. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEd’s electric distribution rate cases.



Procurement-Related Proceedings.Since June 2009, the IPA designs, and the ICC approves, an electricity supply portfolio for ComEd and the
IPA administers a competitive process under which ComEd procures its electricity supply from various suppliers, including Generation. In order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement Legislation, ComEd hedged the price of a significant
portion of energy purchased in the spot market with a five-year variable-to-fixed financial swap contract with Generation that expires on May 31, 2013. As required by EIMA, in February 2012 the IPA completed procurement events for energy and
REC requirements for the June 2013 through December 2017 period. See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEd’s energy commitments.



Continuous Power Interruption.The Illinois Public Utilities Act
provides that in the event an electric utility, such as ComEd, experiences a continuous power interruption of four hours or more that affects (in ComEd’s case) more than 30,000 customers, the utility may be liable for actual damages suffered by
customers as a result of the interruption and may be responsible for reimbursement of local governmental emergency and contingency expenses incurred in connection with the interruption. Recovery of consequential damages is barred. The affected
utility may seek from the ICC a waiver of these liabilities when the utility can show that the cause of the interruption was unpreventable damage






due to weather events or conditions, customer tampering, or certain other causes enumerated in the law. See Note 19—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information.



Construction Budget



ComEd’s business is capital intensive and
requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities, to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. Based on PJM’s RTEP, ComEd has various construction commitments, as
discussed in Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEd’s most recent estimate of capital expenditures for electric plant additions and improvements for 2013 is $1,400 million, which includes RTEP projects and
infrastructure modernization resulting from EIMA. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information.



PECO



PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale
of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of
gas distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is a public utility under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Code subject to regulation by the PAPUC as to electric and gas
distribution rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of PECO’s operations. PECO is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other
aspects of PECO’s business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation as to pipeline safety and other areas of gas operations. Specific operations of PECO are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local
agencies. Additionally, PECO is also subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards.



PECO’s combined electric and natural gas retail service territory has an area of approximately 2,100 square miles and an estimated population of 4.0 million. PECO provides electric distribution service in an
area of approximately 1,900 square miles, with a population of approximately 3.9 million, including approximately 1.5 million in the City of Philadelphia. PECO provides natural gas distribution service in an area of approximately 1,900
square miles in southeastern Pennsylvania adjacent to the City of Philadelphia, with a population of approximately 2.4 million. PECO delivers electricity to approximately 1.6 million customers and natural gas to approximately 497,000 customers.



PECO has the necessary authorizations to provide regulated
electric and natural gas distribution service in the various municipalities or territories in which it now supplies such services. PECO’s authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and/or
“grandfathered rights,” which are rights generally unlimited as to time and generally exclusive from competition from other electric and natural gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECO’s natural gas service territory
authorizations overlap with that of another natural gas utility; however, PECO does not consider those situations as posing a material competitive or financial threat.



PECO’s kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher
during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. PECO’s highest peak load occurred on July 22, 2011 and was 8,983 MW; its highest peak load during winter months
occurred on December 20, 2004 and was 6,838 MW.



PECO’s natural gas sales are generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. PECO’s
highest daily natural gas send out occurred on January 17, 2000 and was 718 mmcf.






Retail Electric Services



PECO’s retail electric sales and distribution service revenues
are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. Pennsylvania permits competition by EGSs for the supply of retail electricity while retail transmission and distribution service remains regulated under the Competition Act. At December 31,
2012, there were 77 alternative EGSs serving PECO customers. At December 31, 2012, the number of retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative EGS was 496,500 representing approximately 31% of total retail customers. Retail deliveries
purchased from EGSs represented approximately 66% of PECO’s retail kWh sales for the year ended December 31, 2012. Customers that choose an alternative EGS are not subject to rates for PECO’s electric supply procurement costs and
retail transmission service charges. PECO presents on customer bills its electric supply Price to Compare, which is updated quarterly, to assist customers with the evaluation of offers from alternative EGSs.



Customer choice program activity affects revenue collected from
customers related to supplied energy; however, that activity has no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense or PECO’s financial position. PECO’s cost of electric supply is passed directly through to default service
customers without markup and those rates are subject to adjustment at least quarterly to recover or refund the difference between PECO’s actual cost of electricity delivered and the amount included in rates through the GSA. For those customers
that choose an alternative EGS, PECO acts as the billing agent but does not record revenues or purchase power and fuel expense related to this electric supply. PECO remains the distribution service provider for all customers in its service territory
and charges a regulated rate for distribution service.



Procurement Proceedings.PECO’s electric supply for its customers is procured through contracts executed in accordance with its
PAPUC-approved DSP Programs. PECO has entered into contracts with PAPUC-approved bidders, including Generation, as part of its DSP I competitive procurements conducted since June 2009 for its default electric supply beginning January 2011, which
include fixed price full requirement contracts for all procurement classes, spot market price full requirements contracts for the commercial and industrial procurement classes, and block energy contracts for the residential procurement class. In
September 2012, PECO completed its last competitive procurement for electric supply under its current DSP Program, which expires on May 31, 2013.



On October 12, 2012, the PAPUC approved PECO’s second DSP Program, which was filed with the PAPUC in January 2012. The plan outlines how
PECO will purchase electric supply for default service customers from June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. Pursuant to the second DSP Program, PECO will procure electric supply through five competitive procurements for fixed price full
requirements contracts of two years or less for the residential and small and medium commercial classes and spot market price full requirement contracts for the large commercial and industrial class load. In December 2012 and February 2013, PECO
entered into contracts with PAPUC-approved bidders, including Generation, for its residential and small and medium commercial classes beginning in June 2013.



The second DSP Program also includes a number of retail market enhancements recommended by the PAPUC in its previously issued Retail Markets
Intermediate Work Plan Order. PECO was also directed to allow its low-income Customer Assistance Program (CAP) customers to purchase their generation supply from EGSs beginning April 1, 2014. PECO expects to file its plan for CAP customers by
May 1, 2013.



See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.






Smart Meter, Smart Grid and Energy Efficiency Programs



Smart Meter and Smart Grid Programs.In April 2010, the PAPUC
approved PECO’s Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, which was filed in accordance with the requirements of Act 129. Also, in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for SGIG funds under the ARRA of
2009. Under the SGIG, PECO has been awarded $200 million, the maximum grant allowable under the program, for its SGIG project—Smart Future Greater Philadelphia. The SGIG funds are being used to offset the total impact to ratepayers of the smart
meter deployment required by Act 129. On January 18, 2013, PECO filed with the PAPUC its universal deployment plan for approval of its proposal to deploy the remainder of the 1.6 million smart meters on an accelerated basis by the end of
2014. In total, PECO currently expects to spend up to $595 million and $120 million on its smart meter and smart grid infrastructure, respectively, before considering the $200 million SGIG.



See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Energy Efficiency Programs.PECO’s approved four-year Phase
I EE&C plan totals approximately $328 million and sets forth how PECO will meet the required reduction targets established by Act 129’s EE&C provisions. PECO’s plan includes a CFL program, weatherization programs, an energy
efficiency appliance rebate and trade-in program, rebates and energy efficiency programs for non-profit, educational, governmental and business customers, customer incentives for energy management programs and incentives to help customers reduce
energy demand during peak periods. Under Act 129’s EE&C provisions, PECO was required to reduce peak demand by a minimum of 4.5% of its annual system peak demand in the 100 hours of highest demand by May 31, 2013. The peak demand
period ended on September 30, 2012 and PECO will report its compliance with the reduction targets in a preliminary filing with the PAPUC on March 1, 2013. The final compliance report is due to the PAPUC by November 15, 2013. In
addition, PECO is required to reduce electric consumption in its service territory by 3% through May 31, 2013.



On August 2, 2012, the PAPUC issued its Phase II EE&C implementation order, under which the PAPUC has established PECO’s three year
cumulative consumption reduction target at 2.9%. PECO filed its three year EE&C Phase II plan with the PAPUC on November 1, 2012. The plan sets forth how PECO will reduce electric consumption by at least 2.9% in its service territory for
the period June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2016.



See
Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Natural Gas



PECO’s natural gas sales and distribution service revenues are derived through natural gas deliveries at rates regulated by the PAPUC.
PECO’s purchased natural gas cost rates, which represent a significant portion of total rates, are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount
included in rates without markup through the PGC.



PECO’s natural gas customers have the right to choose their natural gas suppliers or to purchase their gas supply from PECO at cost. At
December 31, 2012, the number of retail customers purchasing natural gas from a competitive natural gas supplier was 53,600, representing approximately 11% of total retail customers. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive natural gas
suppliers represented approximately 16% of PECO’s mmcf sales for the year ended December 31, 2012. PECO provides distribution, billing, metering, installation, maintenance and emergency response services at regulated rates to all its
customers in its service territory.






Procurement Proceedings. PECO’s natural gas supply is purchased from a number of suppliers
primarily under long-term firm transportation contracts for terms of up to two years in accordance with its annual PAPUC PGC settlement. PECO’s aggregate annual firm supply under these firm transportation contracts is 35 million
dekatherms. Peak natural gas is provided by PECO’s liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility and propane-air plant. PECO also has under contract 23 million dekatherms of underground storage through service agreements. Natural gas from
underground storage represents approximately 30% of PECO’s 2012-2013 heating season planned supplies.



See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Construction Budget



PECO’s business is capital intensive and requires significant
investments primarily in electric transmission and electric and natural gas distribution facilities to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. PECO, as a transmission facilities owner, has various construction
commitments under PJM’s RTEP as discussed in Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECO’s most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2013 is $569 million, which
includes RTEP projects and capital expenditures related to the smart meter and smart grid project net of expected SGIG DOE reimbursements.



BGE



BGE is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to
retail customers in central Maryland, including the City of Baltimore, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in central Maryland, including the City of
Baltimore. BGE is a public utility under the Public Utilities Article of the Maryland Annotated Code subject to regulation by the MDPSC as to electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other
aspects of BGE’s operations. BGE is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of BGE’s business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation as to pipeline
safety and other areas of gas operations. Specific operations of BGE are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, BGE is also subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards.



BGE serves an estimated population of 2.8 million in its 2,300
square mile combined electric and gas retail service territory. BGE provides electric distribution service in an area of approximately 2,300 square miles and gas distribution service in an area of approximately 810 miles, both with a population
of approximately 2.8 million, including approximately 621,000 in the City of Baltimore. BGE delivers electricity to approximately 1.2 million customers and natural gas to approximately 655,000 customers.



BGE has the necessary authorizations to provide regulated electric and
natural gas distribution services in the various municipalities and territories in which it now supplies such services. With respect to electric distribution service, BGE’s authorizations consist of charter rights, a state-wide franchise grant
and a franchise grant from the City of Baltimore. The franchise grants are not exclusive and are perpetual. With respect to natural gas distribution service, BGE’s authorizations consist of charter rights, a perpetual state-wide franchise
grant, and franchises granted by all the municipalities and/or governmental bodies in which BGE now supplies services. The franchise grants are not exclusive; some are perpetual and some are for a limited duration, which BGE anticipates being able
to extend or replace prior to expiration.



BGE’s kWh
sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating.






BGE’s highest peak load occurred on July 21, 2011 and was 7,236 MW; its highest peak load during winter months occurred on February 6, 2007 and was 6,347 MW.



BGE’s natural gas sales are generally higher during the winter
months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. BGE’s highest daily natural gas send out occurred on February 5, 2007 and was 840 mmcf.



The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather and usage
conditions. The MDPSC has allowed BGE to record a monthly adjustment to its electric and gas distribution revenues from all residential customers, commercial electric customers, the majority of large industrial electric customers, and all firm
service gas customers to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather and usage patterns per customer on BGE’s electric and gas distribution volumes, thereby recovering a specified dollar amount of distribution revenues per customer, by customer
class, regardless of changes in consumption levels. This adjustment allows BGE to recognize revenues at MDPSC-approved levels per customer, regardless of what actual distribution volumes were for a billing period (referred to as “revenue
decoupling”). Therefore, while these revenues are affected by customer growth, they will not be affected by actual weather or usage conditions. BGE bills or credits impacted customers in subsequent months for the difference between approved
revenue levels under revenue decoupling and actual customer billings.



Retail Electric Services



BGE’s retail electric sales and distribution service revenues are derived from electricity deliveries at rates regulated by the MDPSC. As a
result of the deregulation of electric generation in Maryland effective July 1, 2000, all customers can choose their EGS. While BGE does not sell electric supply to all customers in its service territory, BGE continues to deliver electricity to
all customers and provides meter reading, billing, emergency response, and regular maintenance services. Customer choice program activity affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy; however, that activity has no impact on
electric revenue net of purchased power expense or BGE’s financial position. At December 31, 2012, there were 53 alternative EGSs serving BGE customers. At December 31, 2012, the number of retail customers purchasing energy from an
alternative EGS was 362,117, representing approximately 29% of total retail customers. Retail deliveries purchased from EGSs represented approximately 60% of BGE’s retail kWh sales for the year ended December 31, 2012.



BGE is obligated to provide market-based SOS to all of its electric
customers. The SOS rates charged recover BGE’s wholesale power supply costs and include an administrative fee. The administrative fee includes a commercial and industrial shareholder return component and an incremental cost
component. Bidding to supply BGE’s market-based SOS occurs through a competitive bidding process approved by the MDPSC. Successful bidders, which may include Generation, will execute contracts with BGE for terms of three months or two
years.



BGE is obligated by the MDPSC to provide several
variations of SOS to commercial and industrial customers depending on customer load.



Electric Distribution Rate Cases.In December 2010, the MDPSC issued an abbreviated electric rate order authorizing BGE to increase electric distribution rates for service rendered on or after
December 4, 2010 by no more than $31 million. In March 2011, the MDPSC issued a comprehensive rate order setting forth the details of the decision contained in its abbreviated combined electric and gas distribution rate order issued in
December 2010. As part of the March 2011 comprehensive rate order, BGE was authorized to defer $19 million of costs as regulatory assets. These costs are being recovered over a 5-year period beginning in December 2010 and include the deferral of $16
million of storm costs incurred in February 2010. The regulatory asset for the storm costs earns the authorized






rate of return. On July 27, 2012, BGE filed a combined application for increases to its electric and gas base rates with the MDPSC. The requested rate of return on equity in the application
is 10.5%. On October 22, 2012, BGE filed an updated application to request an increase of $131 million to its electric distribution base revenue requirement. The new electric distribution base rates are expected to take effect in late February
2013. BGE cannot predict how much of the requested increases, if any, the MDPSC will approve.



Smart Meter and Energy Efficiency Programs



Smart Meter Programs.In August 2010, the MDPSC approved BGE’s $480 million, SGIP, which includes deployment of a two-way communications network, 2 million smart electric and gas meters and
modules, new customer pricing programs, a new customer web portal and numerous enhancements to BGE operations. Also, in April 2010, BGE entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. Under the
SGIG, BGE has been awarded $200 million, the maximum grant allowable under the program, to support its Smart Grid, Peak Rewards and CC&B initiatives. The SGIG funding is being used to significantly reduce the rate impact of those investments on
BGE customers. In total, through the ten year life of the Smart Grid program, BGE plans to spend up to $835 million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure.



Energy Efficiency Programs.BGE’s energy efficiency
programs include a CFL program, weatherization programs, an energy efficiency appliance rebate and trade-in program, rebates and energy efficiency programs for non-profit, educational, governmental and business customers, customer incentives for
energy management programs and incentives to help customers reduce energy demand during peak periods. The MDPSC initially approved a full portfolio of conservation programs as well as a customer surcharge to recover the associated costs. This
customer surcharge is updated annually. In December 2011, the MDPSC approved BGE’s conservation programs for implementation in 2012 through 2014.



Natural Gas



BGE’s natural gas sales are derived pursuant to a MBR mechanism that applies to customers who buy their gas from BGE. Under this mechanism,
BGE’s actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between BGE’s actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. Customer
choice program activity affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied natural gas; however, that activity has no impact on gas revenue net of purchased power expense or BGE’s financial position. At December 31, 2012, there
were 27 alternative NGSs serving BGE customers. At December 31, 2012, the number of retail customers purchasing fuel from an alternative NGS was 143,351, representing approximately 22% of total retail customers. Retail deliveries purchased from
NGSs represented approximately 56% of BGE’s retail mmcf sales for the year ended December 31, 2012.



BGE must secure fixed price contracts for at least 10%, but not more than 20%, of forecasted system supply requirements for flowing
(i.e., non-storage) gas for the November through March period. These fixed price contracts are recovered under the MBR mechanism and are not subject to sharing. BGE meets its natural gas load requirements through firm pipeline transportation
and storage entitlements. BGE’s current pipeline firm transportation entitlements to serve its firm loads are 362 mmcf per day.



BGE’s current maximum storage entitlements are 284 mmcf per day. To supplement its gas supply at times of heavy winter demands and to be
available in temporary emergencies affecting gas supply, BGE has:



•a liquefied natural gas facility for the liquefaction and storage of natural gas with a total storage capacity of 1,000 mmcf and a daily capacity of 298 mmcf,






•a liquefied natural gas facility for natural gas system pressure support with a total storage capacity of 5.8 mmcf and a daily capacity of 5.8 mmcf, and



•a propane air facility and a mined cavern with a total storage capacity equivalent to 500 mmcf and a daily capacity of 81 mmcf.



BGE has under contract sufficient volumes of propane for the operation
of the propane air facility and is capable of liquefying sufficient volumes of natural gas during the summer months for operations of its liquefied natural gas facility during peak winter periods. BGE historically has been able to arrange short-term
contracts or exchange agreements with other gas companies in the event of short-term disruptions to gas supplies or to meet additional demand.



BGE also participates in the interstate markets by releasing pipeline capacity or bundling pipeline capacity with gas for off-system sales.
Off-system gas sales are low-margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Earnings from these activities are shared between shareholders and customers. BGE makes these sales as part of a program to balance its supply of, and
cost of, natural gas.



Natural Gas Distribution Rate
Cases.In December 2010, the MDPSC issued a rate order authorizing BGE to increase the gas distribution base revenue requirement for service rendered on or after December 4, 2010 by no more than $9.8 million. In March 2011, the MDPSC
issued a comprehensive rate order setting forth the details of the decision contained in its abbreviated combined electric and gas distribution rate order issued in December 2010. On July 27, 2012, BGE filed a combined application for increases
to its electric and gas base rates with the MDPSC. The requested rate of return on equity in the application is 10.5%. On October 22, 2012, BGE filed an updated application to request an increase of $45 million to its gas distribution base
revenue requirement. The new gas distribution base rates are expected to take effect in late February 2013. BGE cannot predict how much of the requested increases, if any, the MDPSC will approve.



Construction Budget



BGE’s business is capital intensive and requires significant
investments primarily in electric transmission and electric and natural gas distribution facilities to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. BGE, as a transmission facilities owner, has various construction
commitments under PJM’s RTEP as discussed in Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. BGE’s most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2013 is $663 million, which
includes capital expenditures related to the SGIP net of expected SGIG DOE reimbursements.



ComEd, PECO and BGE



Transmission Services



ComEd, PECO and BGE provide unbundled transmission service under rates approved by FERC. FERC has used its regulation of transmission to encourage
competition for wholesale generation services and the development of regional structures to facilitate regional wholesale markets. Under FERC’s open access transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, ComEd, PECO and BGE, as owners of
transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost-based rates. ComEd, PECO and BGE are required to comply with FERC’s Standards of Conduct regulation governing the
communication of non-public information between the transmission owner’s employees and wholesale merchant employees.



PJM is the ISO and the FERC-approved RTO for the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of,
the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM






Tariff), operates the PJM energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls the day-to-day operations of the bulk power system for the PJM region. ComEd, PECO and BGE
are members of PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. ComEd, PECO, BGE and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are
currently under the dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region-wide, open-access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM members at rates based on the costs of transmission service.



ComEd’s transmission rates are established based on a
formula that was approved by FERC in January 2008. FERC’s order establishes the agreed-upon treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on
an annual basis.



PECO default service customers are charged
for retail transmission services through a rider designed to recover PECO’s PJM transmission network service charges and RTEP charges on a full and current basis in accordance with the 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement.



The transmission rate in the PJM Open Access Transmission
Tariff under which PECO incurs costs to serve its default service customers and earns revenue as a transmission facility owner is a FERC-approved rate. This is the rate that all load serving entities in the PECO transmission zone pay for wholesale
transmission service.



BGE’s transmission rates are
established based on a formula that was approved by FERC in April 2006. FERC’s order establishes the agreed-upon treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula
rate calculation on an annual basis.



See Note 3 of the
Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding transmission services.



Employees



As of December 31, 2012, Exelon and its subsidiaries had 26,057 employees in the following companies, of which 8,665 or 33% were covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs):



IBEW Local 15(a)IBEW Local 614(b)Other CBAs(c)Total EmployeesCovered by CBAsTotalEmployeesGeneration1,7011101,8893,70012,116ComEd3,571——3,5715,902PECO—1,286—1,2862,453BGE————3,360Other(d)82—261082,226Total5,3541,3961,9158,66526,057



(a)A separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15, ratified on October 10, 2012, covers approximately 24 employees in ComEd’s System Services Group. Generation’s and
ComEd’s separate CBAs with IBEW Local 15 will expire in 2013.

(b)1,286 PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory are covered by CBAs with IBEW Local 614. The CBAs expire on March 31, 2015. Additionally,
Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires on March 31, 2015 and covers 110 employees.

(c)During 2012, Generation finalized CBAs with the Security Officer unions at Byron, Clinton and TMI, which expire between 2015 and 2016. During 2011, Generation finalized CBAs with
the Security Officer unions at Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities, which expire between 2014 and 2015. During 2009 and 2010, Generation entered into CBAs with the Security Officer unions at Oyster Creek and Limerick, which expire in 2013
and 2014, respectively. Additionally, during 2009, a 5-year agreement was reached with Oyster Creek Nuclear Local 1289, which will expire in 2015. In 2010, a 3-year agreement was negotiated with New England ENEH, UWUA Local 369, which will expire in
2014 and covers 10 employees.

(d)Other includes shared services employees at BSC.






Environmental Regulation



General



Exelon, Generation, ComEd, PECO and BGE are subject to comprehensive and complex legislation regarding environmental matters by the U.S. Congress
and by various state and local jurisdictions in which they operate their facilities. The Registrants are also subject to regulations administered by the U.S. EPA and various state and local environmental protection agencies. Federal, state and local
regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water, and solid and hazardous waste disposal.



The Exelon Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the management of environmental matters. Exelon has a management team to address environmental compliance and strategy, including the CEO; the Senior Vice
President, Corporate Strategy and Chief Sustainability Officer; the Corporate Environmental Strategy Director and the Environmental Regulatory Strategy Director, as well as senior management of Generation, ComEd, PECO and BGE. Performance of those
individuals directly involved in environmental compliance and strategy is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual performance review process. The Exelon Board has delegated to its corporate governance committee authority
to oversee Exelon’s compliance with laws and regulations and its strategies and efforts to protect and improve the quality of the environment, including, but not limited to, Exelon’s climate change and sustainability policies and programs,
and Exelon 2020, Exelon’s comprehensive business and environmental plan, as discussed in further detail below. The Exelon Board has also delegated to its generation oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety
issues relating to Generation, and to its energy delivery oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues related to ComEd, PECO and BGE.



Air Quality



Air quality regulations promulgated by the U.S. EPA and the various state and local environmental
agencies in Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides
(NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of
emissions sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelon’s subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Clean Air Act establishes a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution from power plants.
Advanced emission controls for SO2and NOx have been installed at all of
Generation’s co-owned bituminous coal-fired units.



See
Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding clean air regulation and legislation in the forms of the CSAPR and CAIR, the regulation of hazardous air pollutants from coal- and oil-fired
electric generating facilities under MATS, and regulation of GHG emissions, in addition to NOVs issued to Generation and ComEd for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act.



During 2012, one of Generation’s co-owned facilities began a
project to install environmental control equipment. Total costs incurred as of December 31, 2012 was approximately $39 million. The amount to be expended at Exelon and Generation in 2013, 2014 and 2015 is expected to total $70 million, $45
million and $5 million, respectively.



Water Quality



Under the Clean Water Act, NPDES permits for
discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the U.S. EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated and must be renewed periodically. Certain of Generation’s power generation facilities






discharge industrial wastewater into waterways and are therefore subject to these regulations and operate under NPDES permits or pending applications for renewals of such permits after being
granted an administrative extension.



See Note 19 of the
Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact to Exelon of state permitting agencies’ administration of the Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act.



Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state
and regional agencies and compacts, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission.



Solid and Hazardous Waste



The CERCLA provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the U.S. EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous
substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. EPA either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA,
generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the U.S.
EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These PRPs can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with a U.S. EPA-directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. EPA concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or
may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois, Maryland and Pennsylvania, have also enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially
similar to CERCLA. In addition, the RCRA governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted.



Generation, ComEd, PECO and BGE and their subsidiaries are or are
likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the U.S. EPA, state agencies and/or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including MGP sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for
which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party.



See Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding solid and hazardous waste regulation and legislation.



Environmental Remediation



ComEd’s, PECO’s and BGE’s environmental liabilities
primarily arise from contamination at former MGP sites. ComEd, pursuant to an ICC order, and PECO, pursuant to settlements of natural gas distribution rate cases with the PAPUC, have an on-going process to recover environmental remediation costs of
the MGP sites through a provision within customer rates. While BGE does not have a rider for MGP clean-up costs, BGE has historically received recovery of actual clean-up costs on a site-specific basis in distribution rates. The amount to be
expended in 2013 at Exelon for compliance with environmental remediation related to contamination at former MGP sites is expected to total $57 million, consisting of $51 million, $6 million and $0 million at ComEd, PECO and BGE, respectively.



Generation’s environmental liabilities primarily arise
from contamination at current and former generation and waste storage facilities. As of December 31, 2012, Generation has established an appropriate liability to comply with environmental remediation requirements including contamination






attributable to low level radioactive residues at a storage and reprocessing facility named Latty Avenue, and at a disposal facility named West Lake Landfill, both near St. Louis, Missouri
related to operations conducted by Cotter Corporation, a former ComEd subsidiary.



In addition, Generation, ComEd, PECO and BGE may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable for other environmental remediation costs.



See Notes 3 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants’ environmental remediation efforts and related impacts to the Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows and financial position.



Global Climate Change



Exelon believes the evidence of global climate
change is compelling and that the energy industry, though not alone, is a significant contributor to the human-caused emissions of GHGs that many in the scientific community believe contribute to global climate change, and as reported by the
National Academy of Sciences in May 2011. Exelon, as a producer of electricity from predominantly low-carbon generating facilities (such as nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar photovoltaic), has a relatively small GHG emission profile, or carbon
footprint, compared to other domestic generators of electricity. By virtue of its significant investment in low-carbon intensity assets, Generation’s emission intensity, or rate of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO


e) emitted per unit of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the industry. Exelon
does produce GHG emissions, primarily at its fossil fuel-fired generating plants; CO


, methane and nitrous oxide are all emitted in this process, with CO


representing the largest portion of these GHG emissions. GHG emissions from combustion of fossil fuels represent the majority of Exelon’s direct GHG emissions in 2012, although only a small portion of
Exelon’s electric supply is from fossil generating plants. Other GHG emission sources at Exelon include natural gas (methane) leakage on the natural gas systems, sulfur hexafluoride (SF


) leakage in its electric transmission and distribution operations and refrigerant leakage from its chilling and cooling equipment as
well as fossil fuel combustion in its motor vehicles and usage of electricity at its facilities. Despite its focus on low-carbon generation, Exelon believes its operations could be significantly affected by the possible physical risks of climate
change and by mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS for information regarding the market and financial, regulatory and legislative, and operational risks associated with climate change.



Climate Change Regulation.Exelon is, or may become,
subject to climate change regulation or legislation at the Federal, regional and state levels.



International Climate Change Regulation.At the international level, the United States has not yet ratified the United Nations Kyoto Protocol, which was extended at the most recent meeting of the United
Nations Framework on Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP 18) in December 2012. The Kyoto Protocol now requires participating developed countries to cap GHG emissions at certain levels until 2020, when the new global agreement on emissions
reduction is scheduled to become effective. The new global agreement has been agreed to in concept and further development of its GHG emissions reductions is scheduled to begin in 2015. At this point, there is much debate about the different levels
of emission reductions that will be required for developed and developing countries. Another significant outcome of the COP 18 was a re-examination of the long-term temperature goal which could influence international climate policy by the United
Nations.



Federal Climate Change Legislation and
Regulation.Various stakeholders, including Exelon, legislators and regulators, shareholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors are considering ways to address the climate change issue,
including the enactment of federal climate change legislation. It is highly uncertain whether Federal






legislation to reduce GHG emissions will be enacted. If such legislation is adopted, Exelon may incur costs either to further limit or offset the GHG emissions from its operations or to procure
emission allowances or credits.



The
U.S. EPA is addressing the issue of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions regulation for
new and existing electric generating units through the Section 111 NSPS under the existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. A proposed Section 111(b) regulation for new units is to be finalized in spring 2013, and may result in material
costs of compliance for CO2emissions for new fossil-fuel electric generating
units. The U.S. EPA is also expected to propose a Section 111(d) rule in 2013 to establish CO2emission regulations for existing stationary sources.



Regional and State Climate Change Legislation and Regulation.After a two-year program review, the nine northeast
and mid-Atlantic states currently participating in the RGGI released an updated RGGI Model Rule and Program Review Recommendations Summary on February 7, 2013. Under the updated RGGI program, which must be approved pursuant to the applicable
legislative and/or regulatory process in each RGGI State, the regional RGGI CO2budget would be reduced, starting in 2014, from its current 165 million ton level to 91 million tons, with a 2.5 percent reduction in the cap level each year between 2015-2020. Included in the new program are provisions for cost
containment reserve (CCR) allowances, which will become available if the total demand for allowances, above the CCR trigger price, exceeds the number of CO2allowances available for purchase at auction. (CCR rigger prices are $4 in 2014, $6 in 2015, $8 in 2016 and $10 in 2017, rising 2.5
percent thereafter to account for inflation). Such an outcome could put modest upward pressure on wholesale power prices; however, the specifics are currently uncertain.



At the state level, on December 18, 2009, Pennsylvania issued the
state’s final Climate Change Action Plan. The plan sets as a target a 30 percent reduction in GHG emissions by 2020. The Climate Change Advisory Committee continues to meet quarterly to review Climate Action Work Plans for the residential,
commercial and industrial sectors. The Climate Change Action Plan does not impose any requirements on Generation or PECO at this time.



The Maryland Commission on Climate Change released its climate action plan on August 27, 2008, recommending that the state begin implementing
42 greenhouse gas reduction strategies. One of the Plan’s policy recommendations, to adopt science-based regulatory goals to reduce Maryland’s GHG emissions, was realized with the passage of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Act of
2009 (GGRA). The law requires Maryland to reduce its GHG emissions by 25 percent below 2006 levels by 2020. It directs the MDE to work with other state agencies to prepare an implementation plan to meet this goal. An interim plan was submitted to
the Governor and the General Assembly during the 2012 legislative session, and the final GGRA plan is expected in February of 2013. The final GGRA plan is not expected to impose any additional requirements on BGE. Maryland targeted electricity
consumption reduction goals required under the “Empower Maryland” program, and mandatory State participation in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Reduction Initiative (RGGI) Program will be listed as that sector’s contribution in the GGRA
plan.



The Illinois Climate Change Advisory Group, created
by Executive Order 2006-11 on October 5, 2006, made its final recommendations on September 6, 2007 to meet the Governor’s GHG reduction goals. At this time, the only requirements imposed by the state are the energy efficiency and
renewable portfolio standards in the Illinois Power Act that apply to ComEd.



Exelon’s Voluntary Climate Change Efforts. In a world increasingly concerned about global climate change and regulatory action to reduce GHG, Exelon’s low-carbon generating fleet is seen by
management as a competitive advantage. Exelon remains one of the largest, lowest carbon electric generators in the United States: nuclear for base load, natural gas for marginal and peak demand,






hydro and pumped storage, and supplemental wind and solar renewables. As further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of GHG and air pollutants are promulgated,
Exelon’s low carbon, low emission generation fleet will position the company to benefit from its comparative advantage over other generation fleets.



With the announcement in 2008 of Exelon 2020, Exelon set a voluntary goal to reduce, offset or displace more than 15.7 million metric tonnes of
GHG emissions per year by 2020. Exelon updated that goal in 2012 following the Constellation merger to account for the integration of former Constellation GHG goals. The updated Exelon 2020 goal is to reduce, offset or displace more than
17.5 million metric tonnes of GHG emissions by 2020. The Exelon 2020 goal encompasses three broad areas of focus: reducing or offsetting Exelon’s own carbon footprint (with the year the asset/operations were acquired by Exelon as the
baseline), helping customers and communities reduce their GHG emissions, and offering more low-carbon electricity in the marketplace.



Efforts to achieve the Exelon 2020 goal will be supported by the company’s current business plans as well as future initiatives that will be
integrated into the annual business planning process. This includes a periodic review and refinement of Exelon 2020 initiatives in light of changing market conditions, regulations, technology and other factors that affect the merit of various GHG
abatement options. Specific initiatives and the amount of expenditures to implement the plan will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project-by-project basis in accordance with Exelon’s normal project evaluation
standards.



Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards



Twenty-nine states and the District of Columbia
have adopted some form of RPS requirement. As previously described, Illinois, Pennsylvania and Maryland have laws specifically addressing energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has
been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States Congress. Also, states that currently do not have RPS requirements may adopt such legislation in the future.



The Illinois Settlement Legislation required that procurement plans implemented by electric utilities include
cost-effective renewable energy resources or approved equivalents such as RECs in amounts that equal or exceed 2% of the total electricity that each electric utility supplies to its eligible retail customers by June 1, 2008, increasing to 10%
by June 1, 2015, with a goal of 25% by June 1, 2025. Utilities are allowed to pass-through any costs from the procurement of these renewable resources or approved equivalents subject to legislated rate impact criteria. As of
December 31, 2012, ComEd had purchased sufficient renewable energy resources or equivalents, such as RECs, to comply with the Illinois Settlement Legislation. See Note 3 and Note 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information.



The AEPS Act was effective for PECO
on January 1, 2011, following the expiration of PECO’s transition period. During 2012, PECO was required to supply approximately 4.0% and 6.2% of electric energy generated from Tier I (including solar, wind power, low-impact hydropower,
geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy, coal mine methane and black liquor generated within Pennsylvania) and Tier II (including waste coal, demand-side management, large-scale hydropower, municipal solid
waste, generation of electricity utilizing wood and by-products of the pulping process and wood, distributed generation systems and integrated combined coal gasification technology) alternative energy resources, respectively, as measured in AECs.
The compliance requirements will incrementally escalate to 8.0% for Tier I and 10.0% for Tier II by 2021. In order to comply with these requirements, PECO entered into agreements with varying terms with accepted bidders, including Generation, to
purchase non-solar Tier I, solar Tier 1 and Tier II AECs. PECO also purchases AECs through its DSP Program full requirement contracts.






Section 7-703 of the Public Utilities Article in Maryland sets forth the RPS requirement, which
applies to all retail electricity sales in Maryland by electricity suppliers. The RPS requirement requires that suppliers obtain a specified percentage of the electricity it sells from Tier 1 sources (solar, wind, biomass, methane, geothermal,
ocean, fuel cell, small hydroelectric, and poultry litter) and Tier 2 sources (hydroelectric, other than pump storage generation, and waste-to-energy). The RPS requirement began in 2006, requiring that suppliers procure 1.0% and 2.5% from Tier
1 and Tier 2 sources, respectively, escalating in 2022 to 22.0% from Tier 1 sources, including at least 2.0% from solar energy, and 0.0% from Tier 2 sources. In 2012, 6.5% were required from Tier 1 renewable sources, including at least 0.1%
derived from solar energy, and 2.5% from Tier 2 renewable sources. The wholesale suppliers that supply power to the state’s utilities through the SOS procurement auctions have the obligation, by contract with those utilities, to comply
with and provide its proportional share of the RPS requirements.



Similar to ComEd, PECO and BGE, Generation’s retail electric business must source a portion of the electric load it serves in many of the states in which it does business from renewable resources or approved
equivalents such as RECs. Potential regulation and legislation regarding renewable and alternative energy resources could increase the pace of development of wind and other renewable/alternative energy resources, which could put downward pressure on
wholesale market prices for electricity in some markets where Exelon operates generation assets. At the same time, such developments may present some opportunities for sales of Generation’s renewable power, including from wind, solar,
hydroelectric and landfill gas.



See Note 3 and Note 19 of
the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Executive Officers of the Registrants as of February 21, 2013



Exelon



NameAgePositionPeriodCrane, Christopher M.54Chief Executive Officer, Exelon;2012 - PresentChairman, ComEd, PECO & BGE2012 - PresentPresident, Exelon; President, Generation2008 - PresentChief Operating Officer, Exelon2008 - 2012Chief Operating Officer, Generation2007 - 2010Executive Vice President, Exelon2007 - 2008Shattuck III, Mayo A.58Executive Chairman, Exelon2012 - PresentChairman, President and2001 - 2012Chief Executive Officer, ConstellationCornew, Kenneth W.47Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon;2012 - PresentPresident and Chief Executive Officer, Constellation2012 - PresentSenior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team2008 - 2012Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination, Power Team2007 - 2008O’Brien, Denis P.52Senior Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, Exelon Utilities2012 - PresentChief Executive Officer, PECO; Executive Vice President, Exelon2007 - 2012President and Director, PECO2003 - 2012








NameAgePositionPeriod

Pramaggiore, Anne R.54Chief Executive Officer, ComEd2012 - Present

President, ComEd2009 - Present

Chief Operating Officer, ComEd2009 - 2012

Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd2007 - 2009

Adams, Craig L.60President and Chief Executive Officer, PECO2012 - Present

Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PECO2007 - 2012

DeFontes Jr., Kenneth W.62President and Chief Executive Officer, BGE2004 - Present

Senior Vice President, Constellation Energy2004 - 2012

Gillis, Ruth Ann M.58Executive Vice President, Exelon2008 - Present

Chief Administrative Officer, Exelon2010 - Present

President, Exelon Business Services Company2005 - Present

Chief Diversity Officer, Exelon2009 - 2012

Senior Vice President, Exelon2002 - 2008

Von Hoene Jr., William A.59Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer, Exelon2012 - Present

Executive Vice President, Finance and Legal, Exelon2009 - 2012

Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon2008 - 2009

Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company2004 - 2009

Senior Vice President, Exelon2006 - 2008

Thayer, Jonathan W.41Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon2012 - Present

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Constellation Energy; Treasurer, Constellation Energy2008 - 2012

Vice President, Constellation Energy2004 - 2008

Glace, Joseph R.52Senior Vice President, Exelon2012 - Present

Chief Risk Officer, Exelon2008 - Present

Vice President, Exelon2008 - 2012

DesParte, Duane M.50Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon2008 - Present

Vice President, Finance, Exelon Business Services Company2007 - 2008



Generation



NameAgePositionPeriodCrane, Christopher M.54Chief Executive Officer, Exelon; Chairman, ComEd, PECO & BGE2012 - PresentPresident, Exelon; President, Generation2008 - PresentChief Operating Officer, Exelon2008 - 2012Chief Operating Officer, Generation2007 - 2010Executive Vice President, Exelon2007 - 2008Cornew, Kenneth W.47Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon; President and Chief Executive Officer, Constellation2012 - PresentSenior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team2008 - 2012Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination, Power Team2007 - 2008






NameAgePositionPeriodPacilio, Michael J.52President, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation2010 - PresentChief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear2007 - 2010DeGregorio, Ronald50Senior Vice President, Generation; President, Exelon Power2012 - PresentChief Integration Officer, Exelon2011 - 2012Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Transmission Company2010 - 2011Senior Vice President, Mid-Atlantic Operations, Exelon Nuclear2007 - 2010Wright, Bryan P.46Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Generation2013 - PresentSenior Vice President, Corporate Finance, Exelon2012 - 2013Chief Accounting Officer, Constellation Energy2009 - 2012Vice President and Controller, Constellation Energy2008 - 2012Vice President and Controller, Constellation Energy Resources2007 - 2008Aiken, Robert46Vice President and Controller, Generation2012 - PresentExecutive Director and Assistant Controller, Constellation2011 - 2012Executive Director of Operational Accounting, Constellation Energy Commodities Group2009 - 2011Vice President of International Accounting, Constellation Energy Commodities Group2007 - 2009



ComEd



NameAgePositionPeriodPramaggiore, Anne R.54Chief Executive Officer, ComEd2012 - PresentPresident, ComEd2009 - PresentChief Operating Officer, ComEd2009 - 2012Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd2007 - 2009Donnelly, Terence R.52Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd2012 - PresentExecutive Vice President, Operations, ComEd2009 - 2012Senior Vice President, Transmission and Distribution, ComEd2007 - 2009Trpik Jr., Joseph R.43Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, ComEd2009 - PresentVice President & Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon Business Services Company2007 - 2009Vice President and Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon2004 - 2009Jensen, Val57Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd2012 - PresentVice President, Marketing and Environmental Programs, ComEd2008 - 2012Senior Vice President, ICF International2006 - 2008






NameAgePositionPeriodO’Neill, Thomas S.50Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy and General Counsel, ComEd2010 - PresentSenior Vice President, Exelon2009 - 2010Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Generation; Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Exelon2009 - 2009Vice President, New Plant Development, Generation2007 - 2009Marquez Jr., Fidel51Senior Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, Exelon2012 - PresentSenior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd2009 - 2012Vice President of External Affairs and Large Customer Services, ComEd2007 - 2009Brookins, Kevin B.51Senior Vice President, Strategy & Administration, ComEd2012 - PresentVice President, Operational Strategy and Business Intelligence, ComEd2010 - 2012Vice President, Distribution System Operations, ComEd2008 - 2010Vice President, Work Management and New Business2007 - 2008Anthony, J. Tyler48Senior Vice President, Distribution Operations, ComEd2010 - PresentVice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd2007 - 2010Waden, Kevin J.41Vice President, Comptroller, Accountant and Controller, ComEd2009 - PresentDirector of Accounting Operations, ComEd2007 - 2009



PECO



NameAgePositionPeriodAdams, Craig L.60President and Chief Executive Officer, PECO2012 - PresentSenior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PECO2007 - 2012Barnett, Phillip S.49Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PECO2007 - PresentTreasurer, PECO2012 - PresentInnocenzo, Michael A.47Senior Vice President, Operations, PECO2012 - PresentVice President, Distribution System Operations and Smart Grid/Smart Meter, PECO2010 - 2012Vice President, Distribution System Operations2007 - 2010Webster Jr., Richard G.51Vice President, Regulatory Policy and Strategy, PECO2012 - PresentDirector of Rates and Regulatory Affairs2007 - 2012Murphy, Elizabeth A.53Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO2012 - PresentDirector, Governmental & External Affairs, PECO2007 - 2012Alden, Mark F.52Vice President, Customer Operations, PECO2009 - PresentVice President Gas, PECO2007 - 2009






NameAgePositionPeriodDiaz Jr., Romulo L.66Vice President and General Counsel, PECO2012 - PresentVice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO2009 - 2012Associate General Counsel, Exelon2008 - 2009City Solicitor, City of Philadelphia2005 - 2008Bailey, Scott A.36Vice President and Controller, PECO2012 - PresentAssistant Controller, Generation2011 - 2012Director of Accounting, Power Team2007 - 2011



BGE





NameAgePositionPeriod

DeFontes Jr., Kenneth W.62President and Chief Executive Officer, BGE2004 - Present

Senior Vice President, Constellation Energy2004 - 2012

Woerner, Stephen J.45Chief Operating Officer, BGE2012 - Present

Senior Vice President, BGE2009 - Present

Vice President and Chief Integration Officer, Constellation Energy2011 - 2012

Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Constellation Energy2010 - 2011

Vice President, Transformation, Constellation Energy2009 - 2010

Senior Vice President, Gas and Electric Operations and Planning, BGE2007 - 2009

Khouzami, Carim V.38Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, BGE2011 - Present

Executive Director, Investor Relations, Constellation Energy2009 - 2011

Director, Corporate Strategy and Development, Constellation Energy2008 - 2009

Case, Mark D.51Vice President, Strategy and Regulatory Affairs, BGE2012 - Present

Senior Vice President, Strategy and Regulatory Affairs, BGE2007 - 2012

Dempsey, Mary E.57Vice President, Governmental Affairs, BGE2012 - Present

Executive Director, State Affairs, Constellation Energy2010 - 2012

Managing Director, Public Affairs, Constellation Energy2008 - 2009

Mills, Jeannette M.46Vice President, Customer Operations, BGE2012 - Present

Chief Customer Officer, BGE2011 - Present

Senior Vice President, Customer Relations and Account Services, BGE2008 - 2012

Senior Vice President, Gas Operations and Planning, BGE2007 - 2008

Gahagan, Daniel P.59Vice President and General Counsel, BGE2007 - Present

Vahos, David M.40Vice President and Controller, BGE2012 - Present

Executive Director, Audit, Constellation2010 - 2012

Director, Finance, BGE2006 - 2010






