ITEM 1.BUSINESS



General



Exelon, a utility services holding company, operates through its principal subsidiaries—Generation, ComEd and PECO—as described below, each of which is treated as a reportable segment by Exelon. See Note
20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional segment information.



Exelon was incorporated in Pennsylvania in February 1999. Exelon’s principal executive offices are located at 10 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603, and its telephone number is 312-394-7398.



Generation



Generation’s business consists of its owned and contracted
electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and its competitive retail supply operations. Generation has three reportable segments consisting of the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West regions.



Generation was formed in 2000 as a Pennsylvania limited liability
company. Generation began operations as a result of a corporate restructuring, effective January 1, 2001, in which Exelon separated its generation and other competitive businesses from its regulated energy delivery businesses at ComEd and PECO.
Generation’s principal executive offices are located at 300 Exelon Way, Kennett Square, Pennsylvania 19348, and its telephone number is 610-765-5959.



ComEd



ComEd’s energy delivery business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and
distribution services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago.



ComEd was organized in the State of Illinois in 1913 as a result of the merger of Cosmopolitan Electric Company into the original corporation named Commonwealth Edison Company, which was incorporated in 1907.
ComEd’s principal executive offices are located at 440 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60605, and its telephone number is 312-394-4321.



PECO



PECO’s energy delivery business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and
distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the
Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia.



PECO was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1929. PECO’s principal executive offices are located at 2301 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
19103, and its telephone number is 215-841-4000.



Generation



Generation is one of the largest competitive electric generation companies in the United States, as measured by owned and controlled MW. Generation
combines its large generation fleet with an







experienced wholesale energy marketing operation and a competitive retail supply operation. Generation’s presence in well-developed wholesale energy markets, integrated hedging strategy that
mitigates the adverse impact of short-term market volatility, and low-cost nuclear generating fleet, which is operated consistently at high capacity factors, position it well to succeed in competitive energy markets.



At December 31, 2010, Generation owned generation resources with
an aggregate net capacity of 25,619 MW, including 17,047 MW of nuclear capacity. Generation controlled another 6,139 MW of capacity through long-term contracts.



Generation’s wholesale marketing unit, Power Team, draws upon Generation’s energy generation portfolio and logistical expertise to ensure
delivery of energy to Generation’s wholesale customers under long-term and short-term contracts and in spot markets.



Generation’s retail business provides retail electric and gas services as an unregulated retail energy supplier in Illinois, Pennsylvania,
Michigan and Ohio. Generation’s retail business is dependent upon continued deregulation of retail electric and gas markets and Generation’s ability to obtain supplies of electricity and gas at competitive prices in the wholesale market.





RTOs exist in a number of regions to provide
transmission service across multiple transmission systems. To date, PJM, the MISO, ISO-NE and Southwest Power Pool, have been approved as RTOs. These entities are responsible for regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger
wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability, market monitoring and the elimination or reduction of redundant transmission charges imposed by multiple transmission providers when wholesale customers take transmission service
across several transmission systems.







Generating Resources



At December 31, 2010, the generating resources of Generation
consisted of the following:



Type of CapacityMWOwned generation assets(a)Nuclear17,047Fossil(b)6,189Hydroelectric/Renewable(c)2,383Owned generation assets25,619Long-term contracts(d)6,139Total generating resources31,758



(a)See “Fuel” for sources of fuels used in electric generation.

(b)Includes 933 MW of capacity related to Units 1 and 2 at Cromby Generating Station and Units 1 and 2 at Eddystone Generating Station, which were approved for retirement by the
Exelon Board of Directors on December 1, 2009. See Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

(c)Includes Exelon Wind assets acquired on December 9, 2010. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

(d)Long-term contracts range in duration up to 21 years.



Generation has three reportable segments, the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West, representing the different geographical areas in which
Generation’s power marketing activities are conducted and where Generation’s owned and contracted generating resources are located. Mid-Atlantic represents Generation’s operations primarily in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland
(approximately 36% of capacity); Midwest includes the operations in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Minnesota (approximately 46% of capacity); and the South and West includes operations primarily in Texas, Georgia, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Idaho
and Oregon (approximately 18% of capacity).



Nuclear Facilities



Generation has ownership interests in eleven
nuclear generating stations currently in service, consisting of 19 units with an aggregate of 17,047 MW of capacity. Generation wholly-owns all of its nuclear generating stations, except for Quad Cities Generating Station (75% ownership), Peach
Bottom Generating Station (50% ownership) and Salem Generating Station (Salem) (42.59% ownership). Generation’s nuclear generating stations are all operated by Generation, with the exception of the two units at Salem, which are operated by PSEG
Nuclear, LLC (PSEG Nuclear), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of PSEG. In 2010 and 2009, electric supply (in GWh) generated from the nuclear generating facilities was 82% and 81%, respectively, of Generation’s total electric supply, which
also includes fossil, hydroelectric and renewable generation and electric supply purchased for resale. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of
Generation’s electric supply sources.



AmerGen
Reorganization.AmerGen, a wholly owned subsidiary of Generation through January 8, 2009, owned and operated the Clinton Nuclear Power Station (Clinton), the Three Mile Island (TMI) Unit No. 1 and the Oyster Creek Generating
Station (Oyster Creek) through that time. Effective January 8, 2009, AmerGen was merged into Generation, which now holds the operating licenses for Clinton, TMI and Oyster Creek.



Oyster Creek Station Shutdown.On December 8, 2010, in connection with the executed Administrative
Consent Order (ACO) with the NJDEP, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information regarding the closure of Oyster Creek.







Nuclear Operations.Capacity factors, which are significantly affected by the number and
duration of refueling and non-refueling outages, can have a significant impact on Generation’s results of operations. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can negotiate favorable terms for the materials and
services that its business requires. Generation’s nuclear plants have historically benefited from minimal environmental impact from operations and a safe operating history.



During 2010 and 2009, the nuclear generating facilities operated by
Generation achieved capacity factors of 93.9% and 93.6%, respectively. Generation aggressively manages its scheduled refueling outages to minimize their duration and to maintain high nuclear generating capacity factors, resulting in a stable
generation base for Generation’s short and long-term supply commitments and Power Team marketing and trading activities. During scheduled refueling outages, Generation performs maintenance and equipment upgrades in order to minimize the
occurrence of unplanned outages and to maintain safe reliable operations.



In addition to the rigorous maintenance and equipment upgrades performed by Generation during scheduled refueling outages, Generation has extensive operating and security procedures in place to ensure the safe
operation of the nuclear units. Generation has extensive safety systems in place to protect the plant, personnel and surrounding area in the unlikely event of an accident.



Regulation of Nuclear Power Generation.Generation is
subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC with respect to the operation of its nuclear generating stations, including the licensing for operation of each unit. The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations to continuing review and regulation covering,
among other things, operations, maintenance, emergency planning, security and environmental and radiological aspects of those stations. As part of its reactor oversight process, the NRC continuously assesses unit performance indicators and
inspection results, and communicates its assessment on a semi-annual basis. As of December 31, 2010, the NRC categorized each unit operated by Generation in the Licensee Response Column, which is the highest performance band. The NRC may modify,
suspend or revoke operating licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under such Act or the terms of the operating licenses. Changes in regulations by the NRC may require a substantial
increase in capital expenditures for nuclear generating facilities and/or increased operating costs of nuclear generating units.







Licenses.Generation has 40-year operating licenses from the NRC for each of its
nuclear units and has received 20-year operating license renewals for Peach Bottom Units 2 and 3, Dresden Units 2 and 3, Quad Cities Units 1 and 2, Oyster Creek and Three Mile Island Unit 1. The following table summarizes the current operating
license expiration dates for Generation’s nuclear facilities in service:



StationUnitIn-ServiceDate(a)Current LicenseExpirationBraidwood(b)119882026219882027Byron(b)119852024219872026Clinton(c)119872026Dresden(b)(e)219702029319712031LaSalle(b)119842022219842023Limerick(d)119862024219902029Oyster Creek(d)(e)(f)119692029Peach Bottom(d)(e)219742033319742034Quad Cities(b)(e)119732032219732032Salem(d)119772016219812020Three Mile Island(c)(e)119742034



(a)Denotes year in which nuclear unit began commercial operations.

(b)Stations previously owned by ComEd.

(c)Stations previously owned by AmerGen.

(d)Stations previously owned by PECO.

(e)Stations for which the NRC has issued a renewed operating licenses for Dresden Unit 2 and Unit 3.

(f)On December 8, 2010, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. See Note 18 of the Combined
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



On May 29, 2009, a coalition of citizen groups filed a Petition for Review of the NRC’s renewal of Oyster Creek’s operating license in the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. Oral
argument was held before the Court on January 5, 2011. If the appeal is successful, it is unlikely that it would result in a revocation of the renewed license; however, it could cause the NRC to impose additional conditions over the course of
the period of extended operation.



On August 18, 2009,
PSEG submitted an application to the NRC to extend the operating licenses of Salem Units 1 and 2 by 20 years. The NRC is expected to spend a total of 22 to 30 months to review the application before making a decision.



Generation expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals
for the remaining nuclear units. The operating license renewal process takes approximately four to five years from the commencement of the renewal process until completion of the NRC’s review. The NRC review process takes approximately two
years from the docketing of an application. Each requested license renewal is expected to be for 20 years beyond the original license expiration. Depreciation provisions are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which reflect the
actual and assumed renewal of operating licenses for all of Generation’s operating nuclear generating stations.







Nuclear Uprate Program.



New Site Development.Generation is keeping open the
option of a new nuclear plant located in Victoria County in southeast Texas; however, Generation has not made a decision to build a nuclear plant at this time. In response to the overall downturn of the economy and the projection of sustained, low
natural gas prices, Exelon revised its new nuclear plant development strategy. Exelon had previously submitted a Combined Construction and Operating License (COL) application to the NRC for the Victoria site. On March 25, 2010, Exelon submitted
an application for an Early Site Permit (ESP) application for the site and subsequently withdrew its COL application. The ESP allows Exelon to establish the suitability of the Victoria site, which lessens the amount of work to do should it later
decide to reapply for a COL. Additionally, the ESP accommodates a variety of possible future plant designs, allowing for flexibility in selecting a reactor technology later as part of a COL application. If approved by the NRC, the ESP would
effectively reserve the site for 20 years with the possibility of renewal for another 20 years. Any decision to build at the Victoria County site would be made later based on then current economics. The Exelon board authorized a budget of $130
million for the Victoria County project, of which a total of $108 million had been expensed through December 31, 2010. The review and approval schedule published by the NRC estimates final issuance of the ESP in late 2014.



Nuclear Waste Disposal.There are no facilities for the
reprocessing or permanent disposal of SNF currently in operation in the United States, nor has the NRC licensed any such facilities. Generation currently stores all SNF generated by its nuclear generating facilities in on-site storage pools or in
dry cask storage facilities. Since Generation’s SNF storage pools generally do not have sufficient storage capacity for the life of the respective plant, Generation has developed dry cask storage facilities to support operations.



As of December 31, 2010, Generation had approximately 54,300 SNF
assemblies (13,100 tons) stored on site in SNF pools or dry cask storage (this includes SNF at Zion Station, for which Generation retains ownership, see Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
regarding Zion Station Decommissioning). On-site dry cask storage in concert with on-site storage pools will be capable of meeting all current and future SNF storage requirements at Generation’s sites through the end of the license renewal
periods, and through







decommissioning. The following table describes the current status of Generation’s SNF storage facilities.



SiteDate for loss of full core reserve(a)Braidwood2012ByronDry cask storage in operationClinton2018DresdenDry cask storage in operationLaSalleDry cask storage in operationLimerickDry cask storage in operationOyster CreekDry cask storage in operationPeach BottomDry cask storage in operationQuad CitiesDry cask storage in operationSalemDry cask storage in operationThree Mile Island(b)2023



(a)The date for loss of full core reserve identifies when the on-site storage pool will no longer have sufficient space to receive a full complement of fuel from the reactor core.
Dry cask storage will be in operation at those sites prior to the closing of their on-site storage pools.

(b)The DOE previously has indicated it will begin accepting spent fuel in 2020. If this does not occur, Three Mile Island will need an onsite dry cask storage facility.



For a discussion of matters associated with
Generation’s contracts with the DOE for the disposal of SNF, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



As a by-product of their operations, nuclear generating units produce LLRW. LLRW is accumulated at each generating station and permanently disposed
of at Federally licensed disposal facilities. The Federal Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980 provides that states may enter into agreements to provide regional disposal facilities for LLRW and restrict use of those facilities to waste
generated within the region. Illinois and Kentucky have entered into an agreement, although neither state currently has an operational site and none is anticipated to be operational until after 2020. Pennsylvania, which had agreed to be the host
site for LLRW disposal facilities for generators located in Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland and West Virginia, has suspended the search for a permanent disposal site.



Generation is currently utilizing on-site storage capacity at its
nuclear generation stations for limited amounts of LLRW and has been shipping its Class A LLRW, which represent 93% of LLRW generated at its stations, to disposal facilities in Utah and South Carolina. The disposal facility in South Carolina at
present is only receiving LLRW from LLRW generators in South Carolina, New Jersey (which includes Oyster Creek and Salem), and Connecticut. Generation has pending license amendments for its Peach Bottom and LaSalle stations that will allow it to
store LLRW from its remaining stations that have limited capacity. If approved, there will enough storage capacity to store all Class B and C LLRW for the life of all stations in Generations nuclear fleet. Generation continues to pursue alternative
disposal strategies for LLRW, including an LLRW reduction program to minimize cost impacts and on-site storage.



Nuclear Insurance.Generation is subject to liability, property damage and other risks associated with a major accidental outage at
any of its nuclear stations. Generation has reduced its financial exposure to these risks through insurance and other industry risk-sharing provisions. See “Nuclear Insurance” within Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for details.



For information regarding property
insurance, see ITEM 2. Properties—Generation. Generation is self-insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained or are within the policy deductible for its insured losses. Such losses could have a
material adverse effect on Exelon’s and Generation’s financial condition and results of operations.







Decommissioning.NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities
demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. See ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations—Exelon Corporation, Executive Overview; ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Nuclear Decommissioning Asset
Retirement Obligations and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments; and Notes 2, 8 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Generation’s NDT funds and its decommissioning
obligations.



Dresden Unit 1 and Peach Bottom Unit 1 have
ceased power generation. SNF at Dresden Unit 1 is currently being stored in dry cask storage until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. All SNF for Peach Bottom Unit 1, which ceased operation in 1974, has been removed from the site
and the SNF pool is drained and decontaminated. Generation’s estimated liability to decommission Dresden Unit 1 and Peach Bottom Unit 1 was $182 million at December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, NDT funds set aside to pay for
these obligations were $330 million.



Zion Station
Decommissioning.On December 11, 2007, Generation entered into an Asset Sale Agreement (ASA) with EnergySolutions Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, EnergySolutions, LLC. (EnergySolutions) and ZionSolutions, under which ZionSolutions
has assumed responsibility for decommissioning Zion Station, which is located in Zion, Illinois and ceased operation in 1998.



On September 1, 2010, Generation and EnergySolutions completed the transactions contemplated by the ASA. Specifically, Generation transferred
to ZionSolutions substantially all of the assets (other than land) associated with Zion Station, including assets held in related NDT funds. In consideration for Generation’s transfer of those assets, ZionSolutions assumed decommissioning and
other liabilities associated with Zion Station. Pursuant to the ASA, ZionSolutions can periodically request reimbursement from the Zion Station-related NDT funds for costs incurred related to the decommissioning efforts at Zion Station. However,
ZionSolutions is subject to certain restrictions on its ability to request reimbursement; specifically, if certain milestones as defined in the ASA are not met, all or a portion of requested reimbursements shall be deferred until such milestones are
met. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Zion Station Decommissioning.



Fossil, Hydroelectric and Renewable Facilities



Generation operates various fossil, hydroelectric and renewable facilities and maintains ownership interests in several other facilities including
LaPorte, Keystone, Conemaugh and Wyman, which are operated by third parties. In 2010 and 2009, electric supply (in GWh) generated from owned fossil, hydroelectric and renewable generating facilities was 6% of Generation’s total electric supply.
The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generation’s power marketing activities. For additional information regarding Generation’s electric generating facilities, see ITEM 2. Properties—Generation.



John Deere Renewables.On December 9,
2010, Generation acquired all of the equity interests of John Deere Renewables, LLC (now known as Exelon Wind), a leading operator and developer of wind power, for approximately $893 million in cash. Generation acquired 735 MWs of installed,
operating wind capacity located in eight states. Approximately 75% of the operating portfolio’s expected output is already sold under long-term power purchase arrangements. Additionally, Generation will pay up to $40 million related to three
projects with a capacity of 230 MWs which are currently in advanced stages of development, contingent upon meeting certain contractual commitments related to the commencement of construction of each project. This contingent consideration was valued
at $32 million of which approximately $16 million has been recorded as a current liability and the remainder has been recorded as a noncurrent liability. As a result, total







consideration recorded for the Exelon Wind acquisition was $925 million. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Exelon
Wind acquisition.



Plant Retirements.On
December 2, 2009, Exelon announced its intention to permanently retire three coal-fired generating units and one oil/gas-fired generating unit, effective May 31, 2011. The units to be retired are Cromby Generating Station (Cromby) Unit 1
and Unit 2 and Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 1 and Unit 2. These actions were in response to the economic outlook related to the continued operation of these four units. Subsequently, PJM determined that transmission reliability
upgrades will be necessary to alleviate reliability impacts and that those upgrades will be completed in a manner that will permit Generation’s retirement of the units on the following schedule: Cromby Unit 1 and Eddystone Unit 1 on
May 31, 2011; Cromby Unit 2 on December 31, 2011; and Eddystone Unit 2 on June 1, 2012. These dates are dependent upon the completion of required transmission reliability upgrades and may be subject to further change. Generation
revised the depreciable useful lives for the affected units to reflect the revised deactivation dates. For more information regarding plant retirements, see Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Licenses.Fossil and renewable generation plants are
generally not licensed, and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non-Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways or Federal lands, or
connected to the interstate electric grid. The license for the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project expires on August 31, 2014 and for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Facility Project expires on September 1, 2014. In March 2009, Generation filed a
Pre-Application Document and Notice of Intent to renew the licenses, pursuant to FERC relicensing requirements. For those plants located within the control areas administered by PJM or the New England control area administered by ISO-NE, notice is
required to be provided to PJM or ISO-NE, as applicable, before a plant can be retired.



Insurance.Generation does not purchase business interruption insurance for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric operations. Generation maintains both property damage and liability insurance. For
property damage and liability claims, Generation is self-insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and
Generation’s financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. Properties—Generation.



Long-Term Contracts



In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation
sells electricity purchased under the following long-term contracts in effect as of December 31, 2010:



SellerLocationExpirationCapacity (MW)Kincaid Generation, LLCKincaid, Illinois20131,108Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP(a)Franklin, Georgia2030945Tenaska Frontier, LtdShiro, Texas2020830Green Country Energy, LLC(b)Jenks, Oklahoma2022778Elwood Energy, LLCElwood, Illinois2012775Lincoln Generating Facility, LLCManhattan, Illinois2011664Wolf HollowGranbury, Texas2023350Old Trail Windfarm, LLCMcLean, Illinois2026198Others(c)Various2011 to 2028491Total6,139









(a)Generation has sold its rights to 945 MW of capacity, energy, and ancillary services supplied from its existing long-term contract with Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP through a PPA
with Georgia Power, a subsidiary of Southern Company for a 20 year period that began on June 1, 2010.

(b)Commencing June 1, 2012 and lasting for 10 years, Generation has agreed to sell its rights to 520 MW, or approximately two-thirds, of capacity, energy, and ancillary
services supplied from its existing long-term contract with Green Country Energy, LLC through a PPA with Public Service Company of Oklahoma, a subsidiary of American Electric Power Company, Inc..

(c)Includes long-term capacity contracts with seven counterparties.



Fuel



The following table shows sources of electric supply in GWh for 2010 and estimated for 2011:



Source of Electric Supply(a)20102011 (Est.)Nuclear140,010139,375Purchases—non-trading portfolio21,06218,055Fossil, renewable and hydroelectric10,71711,253Total supply171,789168,683



(a)Represents Generation’s proportionate share of the output of its generating plants.



The fuel costs for nuclear generation are substantially less than for
fossil-fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost-effective way for Generation to meet its wholesale obligations, including to ComEd and PECO, and some of Generation’s retail business requirements.



The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the
mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate
inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2015. Generation’s contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2015. All of
Generation’s enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2012. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2013. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion,
enrichment or fabrication services to meet the nuclear fuel requirements of its nuclear units.



Coal is procured primarily through annual supply contracts, with the remainder supplied through either short-term contracts or spot-market purchases.



Natural gas is procured through annual, monthly and spot-market purchases. Some fossil generation stations can use either
oil or natural gas as fuel. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage of favorable market
pricing.



Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate
price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk with both over-the-counter and exchange-traded instruments. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments.







Power Team











At December 31, 2010, Generation’s short and long-term commitments relating to the purchase
and sale of energy and capacity from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows:



(in millions)Net CapacityPurchases(a)Power Only Purchases(b)Power OnlySalesTransmission RightsPurchases(c)2011$291$60$1,632$920122741775892013151—31462014147—149—2015141—150—Thereafter940—670—Total$1,944$77$3,673$24



(a)Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented as commitments represent Generation’s expected
payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2010, including certain capacity charges which are subject to plant availability.

(b)Excludes renewable energy PPA contracts that are contingent in nature.

(c)Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts.



ComEd procures all of its electricity through a competitive procurement
process, through which Generation supplies a portion of ComEd’s load. Additionally, in order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement, Generation and ComEd entered into a five-year financial swap contract that expires on May 31,
2013. See ComEd—Retail Electric Services, Procurement Related Proceedings for additional information regarding ComEd’s procurement-related proceedings and the financial swap contract.



Generation had a PPA with PECO under which Generation supplied PECO
with all of PECO’s electric supply needs through December 31, 2010. Generation supplied electricity to PECO from its portfolio of generation assets, PPAs and other market sources. As of January 1, 2011, PECO procures all of its
electricity through a competitive procurement process, through which Generation will continue to supply a portion of PECO’s load. See PECO—Retail Electric Services, Procurement Related Proceedings for additional information regarding
PECO’s competitive, full-requirements energy-supply procurement process after 2010.



Capital Expenditures



Generation’s business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generation’s estimated capital expenditures for 2011 are
as follows:



(in millions)Nuclear fuel(a)$1,025Production plant850Uprates475Wind225Total$2,575



(a)Includes Generation’s share of the investment in nuclear fuel for the co-owned Salem plant







ComEd



ComEd is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale
of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to a diverse base of residential, commercial and industrial customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is a public utility under the Illinois Public Utilities Act subject to
regulation by the ICC related to distribution rates and service, the issuance of securities, and certain other aspects of ComEd’s business. ComEd is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to
transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEd’s business. Specific operations of ComEd are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, ComEd is subject to mandatory
reliability standards set by the NERC.



ComEd’s retail
service territory has an area of approximately 11,300 square miles and an estimated population of 9 million. The service territory includes the City of Chicago, an area of about 225 square miles with an estimated population of 3 million. ComEd has
approximately 3.8 million customers.



ComEd’s
franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ComEd’s franchise rights are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience issued by the ICC. With
few exceptions, the franchise rights have stated expiration dates ranging from 2011 to 2066. ComEd anticipates working with the appropriate agencies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration.



ComEd’s kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher
during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. ComEd’s highest peak load occurred on August 1, 2006 and was 23,613 MW; its highest peak load during a winter season
occurred on January 15, 2009 and was 16,328 MW.



Retail Electric
Services



Under Illinois law, transmission and
distribution service is regulated, while electric customers are allowed to purchase generation from a competitive electric generation supplier.



At December 31, 2010, approximately 66,200 retail customers (primarily commercial and industrial customers), representing approximately 52% of
ComEd’s annual retail kWh sales, had elected to purchase their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. There are currently a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternate suppliers. Customers who receive
electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier continue to pay a delivery charge to ComEd. Under the current regulatory mechanisms in effect, ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers, without
mark-up. Thus, although energy sales affect ComEd’s reported revenues, they do not affect its net income, as the energy sales are offset by equal amount of purchased power expense.



Under Illinois law, ComEd is required to deliver electricity to all customers. ComEd’s obligation to provide
generation supply service, which is referred to as a POLR obligation, primarily varies by customer size. ComEd’s obligation to provide such service to residential customers and other small customers with demands of under 100 kW continues for
all customers who do not or cannot choose a competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to the utility after taking service from a competitive electric generation supplier. ComEd does not have a fixed-price generation supply
service obligation to most of its largest customers with demands of 100 kW or greater, as this group of customers has previously been declared competitive. Beginning June 2010 ComEd had no fixed price generation supply service obligations for
customers with demands of 100-400 kW. Customers with competitive declarations may still purchase power and energy from ComEd, but only at hourly market prices.







Procurement Related Proceedings.ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement
costs from retail customers without mark-up. Beginning on January 1, 2007, ComEd procured 100% of energy to meet its load service requirements through ICC-approved staggered SFCs with various suppliers, including Generation. Beginning in June
2009, under the Illinois Settlement Legislation, the IPA designs, and the ICC approves an electricity supply portfolio for ComEd and administers a competitive process under which ComEd procures its electricity supply from various suppliers,
including Generation. In order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement, ComEd hedged the price of a significant portion of energy purchased on the spot market with a five-year variable-to-fixed financial swap contract with Generation
that expires on May 31, 2013. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEd’s procurement-related proceedings and the financial swap contract.



Electric Distribution Rate Cases. The ICC issued an order in
ComEd’s 2007 electric distribution rate case approving a $274 million increase in ComEd’s annual delivery services revenue requirement, which became effective in September 2008. ComEd and several other parties filed appeals of the rate
order with the Illinois Appellate Court (Court). The Court issued a decision on September 30, 2010, ruling against ComEd on the treatment of post-test year accumulated depreciation and the recovery of costs for an AMI/Customer Applications
pilot program via a rider (Rider SMP). On November 18, 2010, the Court denied ComEd’s petition for rehearing in connection with the September 30, 2010 ruling. On January 25, 2011, ComEd filed a Petition for Leave to Appeal to the
Illinois Supreme Court. Subsequent to the Illinois Appellate Court’s ruling, ComEd filed a request with the ICC to allow it to request recovery, through inclusion in the 2010 Rate Case, of $3 million in operation and maintenance costs, as well
as carrying costs associated with capital investment in the ICC-approved AMI/Customer Applications pilot program. The AMI pilot program capital investment had already been requested in rate base in the 2010 Rate Case. On December 2, 2010, the
ICC approved ComEd’s request. The investment and the pilot program costs are subject to challenge in the 2010 Rate Case proceeding.





Other.Illinois law provides that in
the event an electric utility, such as ComEd, experiences a continuous power interruption of four hours or more that affects (in ComEd’s case) 30,000 or more customers, the utility may be liable for actual damages suffered by customers as a
result of the interruption and may be responsible for reimbursement of local governmental emergency and contingency expenses incurred in connection with the interruption. Recovery of consequential damages is barred. The affected utility may seek
from the ICC a waiver of these liabilities when the







utility can show that the cause of the interruption was unpreventable damage due to weather events or conditions, customer tampering, or certain other causes enumerated in the law. ComEd does not
believe that during the years 2010, 2009 and 2008 it had any interruptions that have triggered this damage liability or reimbursement requirement.



Construction Budget



ComEd’s business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities, to
ensure the adequate capacity and reliability of its system. Based on PJM’s RTEP, ComEd has various construction commitments, as discussed in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEd’s most recent estimate
of capital expenditures for electric plant additions and improvements for 2011 is $1,015 million which includes RTEP projects. See ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity
and Capital Resources for further information.



PECO



PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to
retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties
surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is a public utility under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Code subject to regulation by the PAPUC as to electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other
aspects of PECO’s operations. PECO is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of PECO’s business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation as to
pipeline safety and other aspects of gas operations. Specific operations of PECO are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, PECO is also subject to NERC mandatory reliability
standards.



PECO’s combined electric and natural gas
retail service territory has an area of approximately 2,100 square miles and an estimated population of 3.8 million. PECO provides electric delivery service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles, with a population of approximately
3.8 million, including approximately 1.5 million in the City of Philadelphia. PECO supplies natural gas service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles in southeastern Pennsylvania adjacent to the City of Philadelphia, with a
population of approximately 2.3 million. PECO delivers electricity to approximately 1.6 million customers and natural gas to approximately 490,000 customers.



PECO has the necessary authorizations to deliver regulated electric and
natural gas service in the various municipalities or territories in which it now supplies such services. PECO’s authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and/or “grandfathered
rights,” which are rights generally unlimited as to time and generally exclusive from competition from other electric and natural gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECO’s natural gas service territory authorizations overlap
with that of another natural gas utility but PECO does not consider those situations as posing a material competitive or financial threat.



PECO’s kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand
for either summer cooling or winter heating. PECO’s highest peak load occurred on August 3, 2006 and was 8,932 MW; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on December 20, 2004 and was 6,838 MW.



PECO’s natural gas sales are generally higher during the winter
months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. PECO’s highest daily natural gas send out occurred on January 17, 2000 and was 718 mmcf.







Retail Electric Services



PECO’s retail electric sales and distribution revenues are
derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. Under the 1998 restructuring settlement, PECO’s electric generation rates were capped through a transition period which ended on December 31, 2010. During the transition period, PECO was
authorized to recover from customers $5.3 billion of costs that might not have otherwise been recovered in a competitive market (stranded costs) with a 10.75% return on the unamortized balance through the imposition and collection of a
non-bypassable CTC, which was a component of the capped electric generation rate on customer bills. At December 31, 2010, PECO’s stranded costs were fully recovered.



Beginning January 1, 2011, PECO’s electric supply procurement
cost rates charged to default service customers are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between PECO’s actual cost of electricity delivered and the amount included in rates without markup through the
GSA.



Pennsylvania permits competition by EGSs for the
supply of retail electricity while transmission and distribution service remains regulated under the Competition Act. For the year ended December 31, 2010, less than 1% of PECO’s residential and large commercial and industrial and 4% of
its small commercial and industrial loads were purchased from alternative EGSs. The small percentage of customer load provided by an alternative EGS is due to the electric generation rate caps that were lower than current market prices throughout
the transition period. Customers that choose an alternative EGS are not subject to PECO’s electric supply procurement cost rates. In preparation for the transition to market-based competitive pricing, multiple alternative EGSs began marketing
to customers in PECO’s service territory. As of January 31, 2011, PECO believes that at least 10% of residential, 46% of small commercial and industrial and 86% of large commercial and industrial loads will be purchased from alternative
EGSs. Beginning with January 2011 customer bills, PECO presented its electric supply Price to Compare, which will be updated quarterly, to assist customers with the evaluation of offers from alternative EGSs. PECO’s average residential Price to
Compare for the first three months of 2011 is 9.92 cents per kWh.



Customer selection of an alternative EGS or PECO as default service provider does not impact PECO’s results of operations or financial position. PECO’s cost of electric supply is passed directly through
to default service customers without markup. For those customers that choose an alternative EGS, PECO will act as the billing agent but will not record revenues or expenses related to this electric supply. PECO remains the distribution service
provider for all the customers in its service territory and charges a regulated rate for delivery service. PECO receives transmission revenue from PJM for customers that select an alternative EGS.



Procurement Proceedings.Prior to January 1, 2011, PECO
procured all its electric supply under a full requirements PPA with Generation, which expired on December 31, 2010. The term and procurement costs under the PPA with Generation corresponded with PECO’s transition period and capped electric
generation rates in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECO’s electric supply for its customers is procured through a competitive process in accordance with its PAPUC-approved DSP Program. During
2010, PECO entered into contracts with PAPUC-approved bidders for its third and fourth competitive procurements of electric supply for default electric service commencing January 2011, which included fixed price full requirement contracts for all
procurement classes, spot market price full requirements contracts for the commercial and industrial procurement classes, and block energy contracts for the residential procurement class. As of December 31, 2010, including the previous
competitive procurements completed in 2009 and 2010, the 2011 expected electric supply for all customer classes had been substantially procured. PECO will conduct five additional competitive procurements for electric supply for all customer classes
during the term of its DSP Program.







Electric Distribution Rate Case.In December 2010, the PAPUC approved a settlement of
PECO’s electric distribution rate case filed in August 2010 that provides for an annual revenue increase of $225 million. The approved electric distribution rates became effective on January 1, 2011. The electric distribution rate case
settlement and the electric supply procurement results indicate an increase of 5.1% in the average residential customer total electric bill in January 2011, above 2010 bills.



See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information.



Smart Meter and Energy Efficiency
Programs



Smart Meter Programs.In April
2010, the PAPUC approved PECO’s $550 million Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, which was filed in accordance with the requirements of Act 129. PECO filed for PAPUC approval of an initial dynamic pricing and customer acceptance
program in October 2010, and plans to file for approval of a universal meter deployment plan for its remaining customers in 2012.



Also, in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for SGIG funds under the ARRA. Under the SGIG, PECO has been
awarded $200 million, the maximum grant allowable under the program, for its SGIG project—Smart Future Greater Philadelphia. As a result of the SGIG funding, PECO will deploy 600,000 smart meters within three years, accelerate universal
deployment of more than 1.6 million smart meters from 15 years to 10 years and increase smart grid investments to approximately $100 million over the next three years. In total, over the next 10 years, PECO is planning to spend up to $650
million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. The SGIG funding will be used to significantly reduce the impact of those investments on PECO customers.



Energy Efficiency Programs.In February 2010, the PAPUC approved
PECO’s EE&C plan, which was filed pursuant to Act 129’s EE&C reduction targets. The approved four-year plan totals more than $330 million and includes a CFL program, weatherization programs, an energy efficiency appliance rebate
and trade-in program, rebates and energy efficiency programs for non-profit, educational, governmental and business customers, customer incentives for energy management programs and incentives to help customers reduce energy demand during peak
periods. In September 2010, PECO filed revisions to the EE&C Plan previously approved in February 2010 that included adjustments to certain incentive levels and the addition of energy efficiency measures to the existing portfolio. These
revisions do not impact the total spending or timely recovery under the approved EE&C plan. On January 27, 2011, the PAPUC unanimously approved PECO’s EE&C Plan revisions.



See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Natural Gas



PECO’s natural gas sales and distribution revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. PECO’s
purchased natural gas cost rates, which represent a portion of total rates, are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates without
markup through the PGC.



PECO’s natural gas customers
have the right to choose their natural gas suppliers or to purchase their gas supply from PECO at cost. In 2010, 39% of PECO’s current total yearly throughput was provided by natural gas suppliers other than PECO and is related primarily to the
supply of PECO’s large commercial and industrial customers. Natural gas distribution service provided to customers by







PECO remains subject to rate regulation. PECO also provides billing, metering, installation, maintenance and emergency response services at regulated rates.



Procurement Proceedings.PECO’s natural gas supply is
provided through purchases from a number of suppliers. These purchases are primarily delivered under long-term firm transportation contracts for terms of up to two years. PECO’s aggregate annual firm supply under these firm transportation
contracts is 46 million dekatherms. Peak natural gas is provided by PECO’s liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility and propane-air plant. PECO also has under contract 23 million dekatherms of underground storage through service
agreements. Natural gas from underground storage represents approximately 30% of PECO’s 2010-2011 heating season planned supplies.



Natural Gas Distribution Rate Cases.On January 1, 2009, PECO implemented the natural gas distribution rates approved by the PAPUC in
its settlement of the 2008 natural gas distribution rate case that provided for an additional $77 million of revenue annually. In December 2010, the PAPUC approved a settlement of PECO’s natural gas distribution rate case filed in August
2010 that provides an increase in annual revenue of $20 million. The approved natural gas distribution rates became effective on January 1, 2011.



See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Construction Budget



PECO’s business is capital intensive and requires significant
investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. Based on PJM’s RTEP, PECO has various construction commitments, including costs related to
transmission system reliability upgrades due to Generation’s plant retirements, as discussed in Notes 14 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECO’s most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant
additions and improvements for 2011 is $450 million, which includes capital expenditures related to the smart meter program and SGIG project net of DOE expected reimbursements.



ComEd and PECO



Transmission Services



ComEd and PECO provide unbundled transmission service under rates established by FERC. FERC has used its regulation of transmission to encourage
competition for wholesale generation services and the development of regional structures to facilitate regional wholesale markets. Under FERC’s open access transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, ComEd and PECO, as owners of
transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost-based rates. ComEd and PECO are required to comply with FERC’s Standards of Conduct regulation, as amended, governing the
communication of non-public information between the transmission owner’s employees and wholesale merchant employees.



PJM is the ISO and the FERC-approved RTO for the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of,
the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff), operates the PJM energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls the day-to-day operations of the bulk power system for the PJM region. ComEd and PECO are members of
PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. ComEd, PECO and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are currently under the
dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region-wide, open-access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM members at rates based on the costs of transmission service.







ComEd’s transmission rates are established based on a formula that was approved by FERC in
January 2008. FERC’s order establishes the agreed-upon treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on an annual basis.



As a result of PECO’s 1998 restructuring settlement, retail
transmission rates were capped at the level in effect on December 31, 1996, which remained unchanged through December 31, 2010. PECO’s transmission rate included in the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff is a FERC-approved rate. This
is the rate that all load serving entities in the PECO transmission zone pay for transmission service. PECO’s 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement provided for recovery of PJM transmission network service charges and RTEP charges
from default service customers, on a full and current basis through a rider.



See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding transmission services.



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, Exelon and its subsidiaries had 19,214
employees in the following companies, of which 8,550 or 44% were covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs):



IBEW Local 15(a)IBEW Local 614(b)Other
CBAagreements(c)Total EmployeesCovered by CBATotalEmployeesGeneration1,6841991,8013,6849,595ComEd3,495——3,4955,692PECO—1,258—1,2582,423Other(d)86—271131,504Total5,2651,4571,8288,55019,214



(a)A separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15, ratified on November 20, 2009, covers approximately 36 employees in ComEd’s System Services Group.

(b)1,258 PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory are covered by CBAs with IBEW Local 614. The CBAs expire on March 31, 2015. Additionally,
Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires on March 31, 2015 and covers 199 employees.

(c)During 2009 and early 2010, CBAs were agreed to with the following Security Officers unions: Braidwood, Byron, Clinton, Dresden, Oyster Creek and TMI. The agreements generally
expire during 2012 except for the agreements at Clinton and Oyster Creek, which expire in 2013. Additionally, during 2009, a 5-year agreement was reached with Oyster Creek Nuclear Local 1289, which will expire in 2015. Also in 2010, a 3-year
agreement was negotiated with New England ENEH, UWUA Local 369, which will expire in 2014, and covers 10 employees.

(d)Other includes shared services employees at BSC.



Environmental Regulation



General



Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO are subject to environmental regulation administered by the U.S. EPA and various state and local environmental
protection agencies or boards. State and local regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. The Registrants are also subject to legislation regarding environmental matters by the United
States Congress and by various state and local jurisdictions where the Registrants operate their facilities.



The Exelon board of directors is responsible for overseeing the management of environmental matters. Exelon has a management team to address
environmental matters, including the CEO who also serves as Exelon’s Chief Environmental Officer; the Vice President, Corporate Strategy and







Exelon 2020; the Corporate Environmental Strategy Director and the Environmental Regulatory Strategy Director, as well as senior management of Generation, ComEd and PECO. Performance for those
individuals directly involved in environmental strategy activities is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual performance review process. The Exelon board has delegated to its corporate governance committee authority to
oversee Exelon’s strategies and efforts to protect and improve the quality of the environment, including, but not limited to, Exelon’s climate change and sustainability policies and programs, and Exelon 2020, Exelon’s comprehensive
business and environmental plan, as discussed in further detail below. The Exelon board has also delegated to its generation oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues relating to Generation, and to its energy
delivery oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues related to ComEd, PECO and Exelon Transmission Company.



Water



Under the Federal Clean Water Act (Clean Water Act), NPDES permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the U.S. EPA or
from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated and must be renewed periodically. All of Generation’s power generation facilities discharge industrial wastewater into waterways and are therefore subject to
these regulations and operate under NPDES permits or pending applications for renewals of such permits after being granted an administrative extension.



See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact to Exelon of state permitting
agencies’ administration of the Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, as well as the planned cessation of generation operations at Oyster Creek.



Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and regional agencies and compacts, including the
Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission.



Solid and Hazardous Waste



The CERCLA, as amended, provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the U.S. EPA in the event of threatened releases of
hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so.
Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are
listed by the U.S. EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These PRPs can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with a U.S. EPA-directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their
liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have also enacted statutes that contain
provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the RCRA governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted.



Generation, ComEd and PECO and their subsidiaries are or are likely to
become parties to proceedings initiated by the U.S. EPA, state agencies and/or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including MGP sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they
may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party.







Environmental Remediation



ComEd and PECO’s environmental liabilities primarily arise from
contamination at former MGP sites. MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to the 1950s. ComEd and PECO generally did not operate MGPs as corporate entities but did acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of
smaller utilities, for which they may be liable for environmental remediation. ComEd, pursuant to an ICC order, and PECO, pursuant to the joint settlements of the 2008 and 2010 natural gas distribution rate cases, are recovering environmental
remediation costs of the MGP sites through a provision within customer rates. PECO’s 2010 natural gas distribution rate case increased the annual MGP recovery to be collected from customers beginning in January 2011.



The amount to be expended in 2011 at Exelon for compliance with
environmental remediation is expected to total $23 million, consisting of $17 million and $6 million at ComEd and PECO, respectively. In addition, Generation, ComEd and PECO may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently
determinable.



See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants’ environmental remediation efforts and related impacts to the Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows and financial position.



Air



Air quality regulations promulgated by the U.S.
EPA and the various state and local environmental agencies in Illinois, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of
particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emissions sources. Such
permits have been obtained by Exelon’s subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution, including a two-phase program to reduce acid rain
effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2and NOxfrom power plants. Flue-gas desulfurization systems (SO2scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generation’s coal-fired units.



See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information regarding clean air regulation and legislation in the forms of the proposed Transport Rule, the regulation of hazardous air pollutants from fossil generating stations, and regulation of GHG emissions, in addition to NOVs
issued to Generation and ComEd for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act.



Global Climate Change



Exelon believes the evidence of global climate change is compelling and that the energy industry, though not alone, is a
significant contributor to the human-caused emissions of GHGs that many in the scientific community believe contribute to global climate change, as reported by the National Academy of Sciences in May 2010. Exelon, as a producer of electricity from
predominantly low-carbon generating facilities (such as nuclear, wind and hydroelectric), has a relatively small GHG emission profile, or carbon footprint, compared to other domestic generators of electricity. By virtue of its significant investment
in low-carbon intensity assets, Generation’s emission intensity, or rate of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emitted per unit of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the industry. Exelon does produce GHG emissions, primarily at its fossil fuel-fired generating plants; CO2, methane and nitrous oxide are all emitted in this process, with CO2representing the largest portion of these GHG emissions. GHG emissions from
Generation’s combustion of fossil fuels represent approximately 90% of Exelon’s total GHG emissions. However, only approximately 6% of Exelon’s total electric supply is provided by its fossil fuel generating plants. Other GHG emission
sources at Exelon include natural gas (methane) leakage on the gas pipeline system and the coal piles at its generating plants,







sulfur hexafluoride (SF6)
leakage in its electric operations and refrigerant leakage from its chilling and cooling equipment as well as fossil fuel combustion in its motor vehicles and usage of electricity in its facilities. Despite its small carbon footprint, Exelon
believes its operations could be significantly affected by the possible physical risks of climate change and by mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for information regarding the market and financial, regulatory
and legislative, and operational risks associated with climate change.



Climate Change Regulation.Exelon is, or may become, subject to climate change regulation or legislation at the international, Federal, regional and state levels.



International Climate Change Regulation.At the
international level, the United States is currently not a party to the Kyoto Protocol, which is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and became effective for signatories on February 16, 2005. The
United Nations’ Kyoto Protocol process generally requires developed countries to cap GHG emissions at certain levels during the 2008-2012 time period. At the conclusion of the December 2007 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bali,
Indonesia, the Bali Action Plan was adopted, which identifies a work group, process and timeline for the consideration of possible post-2012 international actions to further address climate change. In December 2009, the United States agreed to the
non-binding Copenhagen Accord at the conclusion of the 15th Conference of the Parties under the UNFCCC. Under the Copenhagen Accord, the United States agreed to undertake a number of voluntary measures, including the establishment of a goal to
reduce GHG emissions and contributions toward a fund to assist developing nations to address their GHG emissions. The Conference of the Parties met in Mexico in December 2010 and while some progress was made in the Cancun Agreement, the fundamental
issues around GHG emission reductions and a successor to the Kyoto Protocol remain unresolved. The next Conference of the Parties meeting will be held in December 2011 in South Africa.



Federal Climate Change Legislation and Regulation.Various stakeholders, including Exelon, legislators and
regulators, shareholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors are considering ways to address the climate change issue. Mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions are likely to evolve in the future.
If these programs become effective, Exelon may incur costs either to further limit or offset the GHG emissions from its operations or procure emission allowances or credits.



Numerous bills were introduced in Congress during
the 111

th

Congress that address climate change from different perspectives,
including direct regulation of GHG emissions and the establishment of Federal Renewable Portfolio Standards, but none were passed by both houses of Congress. Exelon supports the enactment, through Federal legislation, of a cap-and-trade program for
GHG emissions that is mandatory, economy-wide and designed in a way to limit potential harm to the economy and protect consumers. Exelon believes that any mechanism for allocation of GHG emission allowances should include significant free grants of
allowances to electric (and potentially gas) distribution companies to help offset the cost impact of GHG regulation to the end-use consumer. Over the last few years, Exelon has worked with other businesses and environmental organizations that
participate in the United States Climate Action Partnership to support the development of an integrated package of recommendations for the Federal government to address the climate change issue through Federal legislation, including aggressive
emission reduction targets for total U.S. emissions and robust cost containment measures to ensure that program costs are reasonable. In reaction to the U.S. EPA’s proposed regulation of GHG emissions, various bills have been introduced in the
U.S. House of Representatives that would prohibit or impede the U.S. EPA’s rulemaking efforts. The timing of the consideration of such legislation is unknown.



The issue of GHG regulation of stationary sources will likely be
addressed either under the existing provisions of the Clean Air Act by U.S. EPA regulation, or by new and comprehensive Federal







legislation. The Obama administration and the U.S. EPA have stated a preference for addressing the issue through Federal legislation. The extent to which GHG emissions will be regulated is
currently unknown; however, potential regulation of GHG emissions from stationary sources could cause Exelon to incur material costs of compliance.



Regional and State Climate Change Legislation and Regulation.At a regional level, on November 15, 2007, six Midwest state
Governors (Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin) signed the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Accord. Under that Accord, an inter-state work group was formed to establish a Midwestern GHG Reduction Program that will: (1) establish
GHG reduction targets and timeframes consistent with member state targets; (2) develop a market-based and multi-sector cap-and-trade program to help achieve GHG reductions; and (3) develop other mechanisms and policies to assist in meeting
GHG reduction targets (e.g. a low carbon fuel standard). In May 2010, an advisory group appointed by the Governors issued recommendations, but no actions have been taken on the recommendations.



At the state level, the PCCA was signed into law in Pennsylvania in
July 2008. The PCCA requires, among other things, that: a Climate Change Advisory Committee be formed; a report on the potential impact of climate change in Pennsylvania be developed; the PA DEP develop a GHG inventory for Pennsylvania; a voluntary
GHG registry be identified; and the PA DEP, in consultation with the Climate Change Advisory Committee, develop a Climate Change Action Plan for Pennsylvania to be reviewed with the Pennsylvania General Assembly. The Climate Change Advisory
Committee issued its recommendations for an Action Plan for consideration by the Pennsylvania legislature on October 9, 2009.



Exelon’s Voluntary Climate Change Efforts. In a world increasingly concerned about global climate change, nuclear power as well as other
virtually non-GHG emitting power will play a pivotal role. As a result, Exelon’s low-carbon generating fleet is seen by management as a competitive advantage. Exelon believes that the significance of its low GHG emission profile can only grow
as policymakers take action to address global climate change.



Despite Exelon’s low GHG emission inventory and the absence of a mandatory national program in the United States, Exelon is actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts. Exelon made a voluntary commitment
in 2005 under the U.S. EPA’s Climate Leaders Program to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. Exelon achieved this goal by reducing its carbon dioxide-equivalent (CO2e) emissions to 9.7 million metric tons in 2008, from a 2001 baseline of 15.7 million metric tons. This was accomplished
through the retirement of older, inefficient fossil power plants, reduced leakage of SF6, increased use of renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives.



In 2008, Exelon expanded its commitment to GHG reduction with the announcement of a comprehensive business and environmental strategic
plan. The plan, Exelon 2020, details an enterprise-wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce Exelon’s GHG emissions and those of its customers, communities, suppliers and markets. Exelon 2020 sets
a goal for Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels).



Through Exelon 2020, Exelon is pursuing three broad strategies: reducing or offsetting its own carbon footprint, helping customers and communities
reduce their GHG emissions, and offering more low-carbon electricity in the marketplace. In 2010, Exelon announced that it had achieved just over 50% of the annual Exelon 2020 goal. The planned retirement of fossil units, Cromby Units 1 and 2 and
Eddystone Unit 1 in 2011 and Eddystone Unit 2 in 2012, will further contribute to fully achieving the goal. The early retirement of Oyster Creek may result in increased generation from fossil generating plants in the PJM RTO, which could result in
increased GHG emissions under Exelon 2020 through reverse displacement. The current plan for achieving the Exelon 2020 goal accounts for these events.







Initiatives to reduce Exelon’s own carbon footprint include reducing building energy consumption by 25%, reducing vehicle fleet emissions, improving the efficiency of the generation and
delivery system for electricity and natural gas, and developing an industry-leading green supply chain. Plans to help customers reduce their GHG emissions include ComEd’s Smart Ideas portfolio of energy efficiency programs, a similar
portfolio of energy efficiency programs at PECO to meet the requirements of Act 129, the implementation of smart-meters and real-time pricing programs and a broad array of communication initiatives to increase customer awareness of approaches to
manage their energy consumption. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding ComEd and PECO smart grid filings and stimulus grant awards. Finally, Exelon will offer more low-carbon
electricity in the marketplace by increasing its investment in renewable power and adding capacity to existing nuclear plants through uprates.



Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans and has an organized implementation effort underway. This implementation
effort includes a periodic review and refinement of Exelon 2020 initiatives in light of changing market conditions. Specific initiatives and the amount of expenditures to implement the plan will depend on economic and policy developments, and will
be made on a project-by-project basis in accordance with Exelon’s normal project evaluation standards. As further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, Exelon’s emissions reduction
efforts will position the company to benefit from the long-term positive impact of the requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelon’s operations, cash flows or financial position.



The Exelon 2020 strategy is reviewed annually and updated
to reflect changes in the market, regulations, technology and other factors that affect the merit of various GHG abatement options. In spite of the recent economic downturn, the decline in wholesale power prices and the uncertainty of Federal
climate policy, Exelon 2020 has been demonstrated to be a sustainable business strategy.



Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards



Thirty-three states have adopted some form of RPS requirement. As previously described, Illinois and Pennsylvania have laws specifically addressing
energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States Congress. Also, states that currently do not have RPS
requirements may determine to adopt such legislation in the future.



The Illinois Settlement Legislation required that procurement plans implemented by electric utilities include cost-effective renewable energy resources or approved equivalents such as RECs in amounts that equal or
exceed 2% of the total electricity that each electric utility supplies to its eligible retail customers by June 1, 2008, increasing to 10% by June 1, 2015, with a goal of 25% by June 1, 2025. Utilities are allowed to pass-through any
costs from the procurement of these renewable resources or approved equivalents subject to legislated rate impact criteria. As of December 31, 2010, ComEd had purchased sufficient renewable energy resources or equivalents, such as RECs, to comply
with the Illinois Settlement Legislation. See Note 2 and Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



The AEPS Act is effective for PECO beginning in 2011, following the expiration of PECO’s transition period. During 2011, PECO will be required
to supply approximately 3.5% and 6.2% of electric energy generated from Tier I (including solar, wind power, low-impact hydropower, geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy, coal mine methane and black liquor
generated within Pennsylvania) and Tier II (including waste coal, demand-side management, large-scale hydropower, municipal solid waste, generation of electricity utilizing by-products of the pulping process and wood, distributed generation systems
and integrated combined coal gasification







technology) alternative energy resources, respectively, as measured in AECs. The compliance requirements will incrementally escalate to 8.0% for Tier I and 10.0% for Tier II by 2021. In order to
prepare for the first year of required compliance, PECO procured and banked AECs in accordance with their PAPUC-approved plan over the past three years. PECO has entered into five-year agreements and ten-year agreements with accepted bidders,
including Generation, to purchase annually 452,000 non-solar and 8,000 solar Tier 1 AECs, respectively. PECO also purchases AECs through its DSP Program full requirement contracts. In November 2010, PECO filed a petition with the PAPUC for approval
to procure Tier II AECs to satisfy PECO’s compliance requirements for the AEPS reporting years ending 2011 and 2012.



Similar to ComEd and PECO, Generation’s retail electric business must source a portion of the electric load it serves in IL and PA from
renewable resources or approved equivalents such as RECs. While Generation is not directly affected by RPS or AEPS legislation from a compliance perspective, potential regulation and legislation regarding renewable and alternative energy resources
could increase the pace of development of wind and other renewable/alternative energy resources, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity in some markets where Exelon operates generation assets. At the same time,
such developments may present some opportunities for sales of Generation’s renewable power, including from Exelon Wind, Generation’s hydroelectric and landfill gas generating stations and wind energy PPAs.



See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information.



Executive
Officers of the Registrants as of February 10, 2011



NameAgePositionPeriodRowe, John W.65Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon2000 - PresentChairman, Generation2008 - PresentChairman, PECO2007 - PresentPresident, Exelon2004 - 2008President, Generation2007 - 2008Director, ComEd2009 - PresentDirector, PECO2005 - PresentCrane, Christopher M.52President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon; President, Generation2008 - PresentChief Operating Officer, Generation2007 - 2010Executive Vice President, Exelon2007 - 2008President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Exelon2004 - 2007Clark, Frank M.65Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd2005 - PresentDirector, ComEd2002 - PresentO’Brien, Denis P.50Chief Executive Officer, PECO; Executive Vice President, Exelon2007 - PresentPresident and Director, PECO2003 - PresentGillis, Ruth Ann M.56President, Exelon Business Services Company2005 - PresentExecutive Vice President, Exelon2008 - PresentChief Administrative and Diversity Officer, Exelon2010 - PresentChief Diversity Officer, Exelon2009 - 2010Senior Vice President, Exelon2002 - 2008









NameAgePositionPeriod

Von Hoene Jr., William A.57Executive Vice President, Finance and Legal, Exelon2009 - Present

Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon2008 - 2009

Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company2004 - 2009

Senior Vice President, Exelon2006 - 2008

Hilzinger, Matthew F.47Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon; Chief Financial Officer, Generation2008 - Present

Treasurer, Exelon & Generation2011 - Present

Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon2005 - 2008

Principal Accounting Officer, ComEd; Principal Accounting Officer, PECO2005 - 2006

Vice President, ComEd2004 - 2006

Cornew, Kenneth W.45Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team2008 - Present

Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination, Power Team2007 - 2008

Senior Vice President, Power Transactions, Power Team2003 - 2006

Dominguez, Joseph47Senior Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs & Public Policy, Exelon2010 - Present

Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs, Generation2010 - Present

Senior Vice President, State Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, Generation2010 - 2010

Senior Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs, Exelon2009 - 2010

Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company; Senior Vice President, Generation2007 - 2010

Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Exelon Business Services Company2004 - 2007

Pramaggiore, Anne R.52President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd2009 - Present

Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd2007 - 2009

Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd2005 - 2007

Bradford, Darryl M.55Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon2010 - Present

General Counsel, ComEd2007 - 2010

Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy, ComEd2009 - 2010

Senior Vice President, ComEd2007 - 2009

Vice President, ComEd2005 - 2006







NameAgePositionPeriodDesParte, Duane M.47Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon2008 - PresentVice President, Finance, Exelon Business Services Company2007 - 2008Vice President, Business Operations, ComEd; Vice President, Business Operations, PECO2004 - 2006



Generation





NameAgePositionPeriod

Rowe, John W.65Chairman, Generation2008 - Present

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon2000 - Present

Chairman, PECO2007 - Present

President, Generation2007 - 2008

President, Exelon2004 - 2008

Director, ComEd2009 - Present

Director, PECO2005 - Present

Crane, Christopher M.52President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon; President, Generation2008 - Present

Chief Operating Officer, Generation2007 - 2010

Executive Vice President, Exelon2007 - 2008

President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Exelon2004 - 2007

Pardee, Charles G.51Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Generation2010 - Present

President, Exelon Nuclear2008 -2010

Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation2007 - 2010

Senior Vice President, Generation2007 - 2008

Chief Operating Officer, Generation2005 - 2007

Cornew, Kenneth W.45Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team2008 - Present

Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination, Power Team2007 - 2008

Senior Vice President, Power Transactions, Power Team2003 - 2006

Pacilio, Michael J.50President, Exelon Nuclear and Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation2010 - Present

Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear2007 - 2010

Senior Vice President, Mid-West PWR Operations, Exelon Nuclear2005 - 2007

Garg, Sunil44Senior Vice President, Generation; President, Exelon Power2010 - Present

Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Exelon; Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company2009 - 2010

Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company2007 - 2009

Director of Integrated Business Services, Exelon Business Services Company2004 - 2007







NameAgePositionPeriodDominguez, Joseph47Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs, Generation2010 - PresentSenior Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs & Public Policy, Exelon2010 - PresentSenior Vice President, State Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, Generation2010 - 2010Senior Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs, Exelon2009 - 2010Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company; Senior Vice President, Generation2007 - 2010Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Exelon Business Services Company2004 - 2007Hilzinger, Matthew F.47Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon; Chief Financial Officer, Generation2008 - PresentSenior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon2005 - 2008Treasurer, Exelon and Generation2011 - PresentPrincipal Accounting Officer, ComEd; Principal Accounting Officer, PECO2005 - 2006Vice President, ComEd2004 - 2006Galvanoni, Matthew R.38Chief Accounting Officer, Generation; Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon Business Services Company2009 - PresentVice President, Comptroller, Accountant and Controller, ComEd; Vice President and Controller, PECO2007 - 2009Director of Financial Reporting and Analysis, Exelon2006



ComEd



NameAgePositionPeriodClark, Frank M.65Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd2005 - PresentDirector, ComEd2002 - PresentPramaggiore, Anne R.52President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd2009 - PresentExecutive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd2007 - 2009Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd2005 - 2007Hooker, John T.62Executive Vice President, Legislative and External Affairs, ComEd2009 - PresentSenior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs and Real Estate and Facilities, ComEd2008 - 2009Senior Vice President, State, Legislative and Governmental Affairs, ComEd2005 - 2008









NameAgePositionPeriod

Donnelly, Terence R.50Executive Vice President, Operations, ComEd2009 - Present

Senior Vice President, Transmission and Distribution, ComEd2007 - 2009

Senior Vice President, Technical Services, PECO; Senior Vice President, Technical Services, ComEd2007 - 2007

Vice President, Transmission and Substations, Exelon Energy Delivery; Vice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd2004 - 2007

Vice President, Transmission and Substations, PECO2005 - 2006

Trpik Jr., Joseph R.41Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, ComEd2009 - Present

Vice President & Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon Business Services Company2007 - 2009

Vice President and Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon2004 - 2009

Assistant Controller, ComEd2004 - 2006

Marquez Jr., Fidel49Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd2009 - Present

Vice President of External Affairs and Large Customer Services, ComEd2007 -2009

Vice President of External Affairs, Chicago Operations, ComEd2004 -2006

O’Neill, Thomas S.48Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy and General Counsel, ComEd2010 - Present

Senior Vice President, Exelon2009 - 2010

Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Generation;Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Exelon2009 - 2009

Vice President, New Plant Development, Generation2007 - 2009

Vice President, Licensing and Regulatory, Exelon Nuclear2005 - 2007

Anthony, J. Tyler46Senior Vice President, Distribution Operations, ComEd2010 - Present

Vice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd2007 - 2010

Vice President, Transmission and Substations, PECO2007 - 2007

Vice President, Outage Planning and Services, Generation2006 - 2007

Vice President, Project Management, Exelon Nuclear2004 - 2006

Waden, Kevin J.39Vice President, Comptroller, Accountant and Controller, ComEd2009 - Present

Director of Accounting Operations, ComEd2007 - 2009

Director of Financial Reporting and Accounting Research, Exelon Energy Delivery2003 - 2007







PECO



NameAgePositionPeriodO’Brien, Denis P.50Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, PECO2007 - PresentPresident and Director, PECO2003 - PresentAdams, Craig L.58Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PECO2007 - PresentSenior Vice President and Chief Supply Officer, Exelon Business Services Company2004 - 2007Barnett, Phillip S.47Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PECO2007 - PresentSenior Vice President, Corporate Financial Planning, Exelon2005 - 2007Bonney, Paul R.52Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, PECO2009 - PresentGeneral Counsel, Vice President & Assistant Secretary, PECO2007 - 2009Vice President & Deputy General Counsel, Regulatory, Exelon Business Services Company2001 - 2007Diaz Jr., Romulo L.64Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO2009 - PresentAssociate General Counsel, Exelon2008 - 2009City Solicitor, City of Philadelphia2005 - 2008Acevedo, Jorge A.39Vice President and Controller, PECO2009 - PresentAssistant Treasurer, PECO2010 - PresentAssistant Controller, Generation2007 - 2009Director of Accounting, Power Team division of Generation2003 - 2007



