ITEM 1.BUSINESS



General



Corporate Structure and Business and Other Information



Exelon, incorporated in Pennsylvania in February 1999, is a utility services holding company engaged, through its principal subsidiaries, Generation, in the energy generation business, and ComEd and PECO, in the
energy delivery businesses discussed below. Exelon’s principal executive offices are located at 10 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603, and its telephone number is 312-394-7398.



Generation



Generation’s business consists of its owned and contracted
electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and its competitive retail supply operations. Generation has three reportable segments consisting of the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West regions.



Generation was formed in 2000 as a Pennsylvania limited liability
company. Generation began operations as a result of a corporate restructuring, effective January 1, 2001, in which Exelon separated its generation and other competitive businesses from its regulated energy delivery businesses at ComEd and PECO.
Generation’s principal executive offices are located at 300 Exelon Way, Kennett Square, Pennsylvania 19348, and its telephone number is 610-765-5959.



ComEd



ComEd’s energy delivery business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and
distribution services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago.



ComEd was organized in the State of Illinois in 1913 as a result of the merger of Cosmopolitan Electric Company into the original corporation named Commonwealth Edison Company, which was incorporated in 1907.
ComEd’s principal executive offices are located at 440 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60605, and its telephone number is 312-394-4321.



PECO



PECO’s energy delivery business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and
distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the
Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia.



PECO was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1929. PECO’s principal executive offices are located at 2301 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
19103, and its telephone number is 215-841-4000.



Operating Segments



See Note 20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Exelon’s operating segments.







Proposed Merger with Constellation Energy Group, Inc.



On April 28, 2011, Exelon and Constellation announced that they
signed an agreement and plan of merger to combine the two companies in a stock-for-stock transaction. Under the merger agreement, Constellation’s shareholders will receive 0.930 shares of Exelon common stock in exchange for each share of
Constellation common stock. Constellation is a leading competitive supplier of power, natural gas and energy products and services for homes and businesses across the continental United States. It owns a diversified fleet of generating units,
totaling approximately 12,000 megawatts of generating capacity, and is a leading advocate for clean, environmentally sustainable energy sources, such as solar power and nuclear energy. Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (BGE), Constellation’s
regulated utility, delivers electricity and natural gas in central Maryland. The resulting company will retain the Exelon name and be headquartered in Chicago. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information on the Constellation transaction.



Generation



Generation is one of the largest competitive electric generation
companies in the United States, as measured by owned and controlled MW. Generation combines its large generation fleet with an experienced wholesale energy marketing operation and a competitive retail supply operation. Generation’s presence in
well-developed wholesale energy markets, integrated hedging strategy that mitigates the adverse impact of short-term market volatility, and low-cost nuclear generating fleet, which is operated consistently at high capacity factors, position it well
to succeed in competitive energy markets.



At
December 31, 2011, Generation owned generation resources with an aggregate net capacity of 25,544 MW, including 17,115 MW of nuclear capacity. Generation controlled another 5,025 MW of capacity through long-term contracts.



Generation’s wholesale marketing unit, Power Team, utilizes
Generation’s energy generation portfolio and logistical expertise to ensure delivery of energy to Generation’s wholesale customers under long-term and short-term contracts and in spot markets.



Generation’s retail business provides retail electric and gas
services as an unregulated retail energy supplier in Illinois, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Ohio. Generation’s retail business is dependent upon continued deregulation of retail electric and gas markets and Generation’s ability to obtain
supplies of electricity and gas at competitive prices in the wholesale market.









RTOs exist in a number of regions to provide transmission service across multiple transmission
systems. CAISO, PJM, MISO, ISO-NE and Southwest Power Pool, have been approved by FERC as RTOs. These entities are responsible for regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity,
maintaining reliability, market monitoring and the elimination or reduction of redundant transmission charges imposed by multiple transmission providers when wholesale customers take transmission service across several transmission systems.



Generating Resources



At December 31, 2011, the generating resources of Generation
consisted of the following:



Type of CapacityMWOwned generation assets(a)Nuclear17,115Fossil5,890Hydroelectric/Renewable2,539Owned generation assets25,544Long-term contracts(b)5,025Total generating resources30,569



(a)See “Fuel” for sources of fuels used in electric generation.

(b)Long-term contracts range in duration up to 21 years.



Generation has three reportable segments, the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, and South and West, representing the different geographical areas in which
Generation’s power marketing activities are conducted and where Generation’s owned and contracted generating resources are located. Mid-Atlantic represents Generation’s operations primarily in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland
(approximately 35% of capacity); Midwest includes the operations in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Minnesota (approximately 45% of capacity); and the South and West includes operations primarily in Texas, Georgia, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Idaho
and Oregon (approximately 20% of capacity).



Nuclear Facilities



Generation has ownership interests in eleven
nuclear generating stations currently in service, consisting of 19 units with an aggregate of 17,115 MW of capacity. Generation wholly owns all of its nuclear generating stations, except for Quad Cities Generating Station (75% ownership), Peach
Bottom Generating Station (50% ownership) and Salem Generating Station (Salem) (42.59% ownership). Generation’s nuclear generating stations are all operated by Generation, with the exception of the two units at Salem, which are operated by PSEG
Nuclear, LLC (PSEG Nuclear), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of PSEG. In both 2011 and 2010, electric supply (in GWh) generated from the nuclear generating facilities was 82% of Generation’s total electric supply, which also includes
fossil, hydroelectric and renewable generation and electric supply purchased for resale. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for further discussion of Generation’s electric
supply sources.



Nuclear Operations.Capacity
factors, which are significantly affected by the number and duration of refueling and non-refueling outages, can have a significant impact on Generation’s results of operations. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States,
Generation can negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services that its business requires. Generation’s nuclear plants have historically benefited from minimal environmental impact from operations and a safe operating history.







During 2011 and 2010, the nuclear generating facilities operated by Generation achieved capacity
factors of 93.3% and 93.9%, respectively. Generation aggressively manages its scheduled refueling outages to minimize their duration and to maintain high nuclear generating capacity factors, resulting in a stable generation base for
Generation’s short and long-term supply commitments and Power Team marketing and trading activities. During scheduled refueling outages, Generation performs maintenance and equipment upgrades in order to minimize the occurrence of unplanned
outages and to maintain safe, reliable operations.



In
addition to the rigorous maintenance and equipment upgrades performed by Generation during scheduled refueling outages, Generation has extensive operating and security procedures in place to ensure the safe operation of the nuclear units. Generation
has extensive safety systems in place to protect the plant, personnel and surrounding area in the unlikely event of an accident.



Regulation of Nuclear Power Generation.Generation is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC with respect to the operation of its
nuclear generating stations, including the licensing for operation of each unit. The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations to continuing review and regulation covering, among other things, operations, maintenance, emergency planning, security and
environmental and radiological aspects of those stations. As part of its reactor oversight process, the NRC continuously assesses unit performance indicators and inspection results, and communicates its assessment on a semi-annual basis. As of
December 31, 2011, the NRC categorized each unit operated by Generation, with the exception of Byron Unit 2 and Limerick Unit 2, in the Licensee Response Column, which is the highest performance band. The NRC categorized Byron Unit 2 and
Limerick Unit 2 in the Regulatory Response Column, which is the second highest performance band. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke operating licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations
under such Act or the terms of the operating licenses. Changes in regulations by the NRC may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures for nuclear generating facilities and/or increased operating costs of nuclear generating units.



On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a 9.0 magnitude
earthquake and ensuing tsunami that seriously damaged the nuclear units at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which are operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co. For additional information on the NRC actions related to the Japan Earthquake and
Tsunami and the industry’s response, see ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – Executive Overview.







Licenses.Generation has 40-year operating licenses from the NRC for each of its
nuclear units and has received 20-year operating license renewals for Peach Bottom Units 2 and 3, Dresden Units 2 and 3, Quad Cities Units 1 and 2, Oyster Creek and Three Mile Island Unit 1. Additionally, PSEG has 40-year operating licenses from the
NRC and on June 30, 2011, received 20-year operating license renewals for Salem Units 1 and 2. In December 8, 2010, in connection with an Administrative Consent Order (ACO) with the NJDEP, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently
cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. The following table summarizes the current operating license expiration dates for Generation’s nuclear facilities in service:



StationUnitIn-ServiceDate(a)Current LicenseExpirationBraidwood119882026219882027Byron119852024219872026Clinton119872026Dresden(b)219702029319712031LaSalle119842022219842023Limerick(c)119862024219902029Oyster Creek(b)(d)119692029Peach Bottom(b)219742033319742034Quad Cities(b)119732032219732032Salem(b)119772036219812040Three Mile Island(b)119742034



(a)Denotes year in which nuclear unit began commercial operations.

(b)Stations for which the NRC has issued a renewed operating licenses.

(c)On June 22, 2011, Generation submitted applications to the NRC to extend the operating licenses of Limerick Units 1 and 2 by 20 years.

(d)In December, 2010, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



On June 22, 2011, Generation submitted applications to the NRC to extend the operating licenses of Limerick Units 1 and 2 by 20 years. Generation expects to apply for and obtain approval of license renewals
for the remaining nuclear units. The operating license renewal process takes approximately four to five years from the commencement of the renewal process until completion of the NRC’s review. The NRC review process takes approximately two
years from the docketing of an application. Each requested license renewal is expected to be for 20 years beyond the original license expiration. Depreciation provisions are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which reflect the
actual and assumed renewal of operating licenses for all of Generation’s operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek.



Nuclear Uprate Program.Generation has announced a series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet that would result in
between 1,175 and 1,300 MWs at an overnight cost of approximately $3.30 billion in 2011 dollars. Overnight costs do not include financing costs or cost escalation. Using proven technologies, the projects take advantage of new production and
measurement technologies, new materials and learning from a half-century of nuclear power operations. Uprate projects, representing approximately 75% of the planned uprate MWs, are







underway at the Limerick, Three Mile Island and Peach Bottom nuclear stations in Pennsylvania and the Byron, Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities plants in Illinois. The remaining uprate
MWs will come from additional projects across Generation’s nuclear fleet beginning in 2012 and ending in 2017. At 1,300 nuclear-generated MWs, the uprates would displace 6 million metric tons of carbon emissions annually that would
otherwise come from burning fossil fuels. The uprates are being undertaken pursuant to an organized, strategically sequenced implementation plan. The implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of the project in light of changing
market conditions. The amount of expenditures to implement the plan ultimately will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project-by-project basis in accordance with Exelon’s normal project evaluation standards. The
ability to implement several projects requires the successful resolution of various technical issues. The resolution of these issues may affect the timing and amount of the power increases associated with the power uprate initiative. Through
December 31, 2011, Generation has added 240 MWs of nuclear generation through its uprate program.



New Nuclear Site Development.



Nuclear Waste Disposal.There are no facilities for the
reprocessing or permanent disposal of SNF currently in operation in the United States, nor has the NRC licensed any such facilities. Generation currently stores all SNF generated by its nuclear generating facilities in on-site storage pools or in
dry cask storage facilities. Since Generation’s SNF storage pools generally do not have sufficient storage capacity for the life of the respective plant, Generation has developed dry cask storage facilities to support operations.







As of December 31, 2011, Generation had approximately 56,300 SNF assemblies (13,500 tons) stored
on site in SNF pools or dry cask storage (this includes SNF at Zion Station, for which Generation retains ownership, see Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Zion Station
Decommissioning). On-site dry cask storage in concert with on-site storage pools will be capable of meeting all current and future SNF storage requirements at Generation’s sites through the end of the license renewal periods, and through
decommissioning. The following table describes the current status of Generation’s SNF storage facilities.



SiteDate for loss of full core reserve(a)BraidwoodDry cask storage in operationByronDry cask storage in operationClinton2016DresdenDry cask storage in operationLaSalleDry cask storage in operationLimerickDry cask storage in operationOyster CreekDry cask storage in operationPeach BottomDry cask storage in operationQuad CitiesDry cask storage in operationSalemDry cask storage in operationThree Mile Island(b)2023



(a)The date for loss of full core reserve identifies when the on-site storage pool will no longer have sufficient space to receive a full complement of fuel from the reactor core.
Dry cask storage will be in operation at those sites prior to the closing of their on-site storage pools.

(b)The DOE previously has indicated it will begin accepting spent fuel in 2020. If this does not occur, Three Mile Island will need an onsite dry cask storage facility.



For a discussion of matters associated with
Generation’s contracts with the DOE for the disposal of SNF, see Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



As a by-product of their operations, nuclear generating units produce LLRW. LLRW is accumulated at each generating station and permanently disposed
of at Federally licensed disposal facilities. The Federal Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980 provides that states may enter into agreements to provide regional disposal facilities for LLRW and restrict use of those facilities to waste
generated within the region. Illinois and Kentucky have entered into an agreement, although neither state currently has an operational site and none is anticipated to be operational until after 2020.



Generation is currently utilizing on-site storage capacity at its
nuclear generation stations for limited amounts of LLRW and has been shipping its Class A LLRW, which represent 93% of LLRW generated at its stations, to disposal facilities in Utah and South Carolina. The disposal facility in South Carolina at
present is only receiving LLRW from LLRW generators in South Carolina, New Jersey (which includes Oyster Creek and Salem), and Connecticut. Generation has received approval for its Peach Bottom and LaSalle stations that will allow it to store LLRW
from its remaining stations that have limited capacity. Generation now has enough storage capacity to store all Class B and C LLRW for the life of all stations in Generation’s nuclear fleet. Generation continues to pursue alternative disposal
strategies for LLRW, including an LLRW reduction program to minimize cost impacts and on-site storage.



Nuclear Insurance.Generation is subject to liability, property damage and other risks associated with a major accidental outage at
any of its nuclear stations. Generation has reduced its financial exposure to these risks through insurance and other industry risk-sharing provisions. See “Nuclear Insurance” within Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for details.







For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Generation. Generation
is self-insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained or are within the policy deductible for its insured losses. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon’s and Generation’s financial
condition and results of operations.



Decommissioning.NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. See
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—Exelon Corporation, Executive Overview; ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments; and Notes 2, 8 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding Generation’s NDT funds and its decommissioning obligations.



Dresden Unit 1 and Peach Bottom Unit 1 have ceased power generation. SNF at Dresden Unit 1 is currently being stored in dry cask storage until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. All SNF for Peach
Bottom Unit 1, which ceased operation in 1974, has been removed from the site and the SNF pool is drained and decontaminated. Generation’s estimated liability to decommission Dresden Unit 1 and Peach Bottom Unit 1 was $183 million at
December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, NDT funds set aside to pay for these obligations were $351 million.



Zion Station Decommissioning.On December 11, 2007, Generation entered into an Asset Sale Agreement (ASA) with EnergySolutions, Inc. and
its wholly owned subsidiaries, EnergySolutions, LLC (EnergySolutions) and ZionSolutions, LLC (ZionSolutions) under which ZionSolutions has assumed responsibility for decommissioning Zion Station, which is located in Zion, Illinois and ceased
operation in 1998.



On September 1, 2010, Generation
and EnergySolutions completed the transactions contemplated by the ASA. Specifically, Generation transferred to ZionSolutions substantially all of the assets (other than land) associated with Zion Station, including assets held in related NDT funds.
In consideration for Generation’s transfer of those assets, ZionSolutions assumed decommissioning and other liabilities associated with Zion Station. Pursuant to the ASA, ZionSolutions can periodically request reimbursement from the Zion
Station-related NDT funds for costs incurred related to the decommissioning efforts at Zion Station. However, ZionSolutions is subject to certain restrictions on its ability to request reimbursement; specifically, if certain milestones as defined in
the ASA are not met, all or a portion of requested reimbursements shall be deferred until such milestones are met. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Zion Station
Decommissioning.



Fossil, Hydroelectric and Renewable Facilities



Generation operates various fossil, hydroelectric
and renewable facilities and maintains ownership interests in several other facilities including LaPorte, Keystone, Conemaugh and Wyman, which are operated by third parties. In 2011 and 2010, electric supply (in GWh) generated from owned fossil,
hydroelectric and renewable generating facilities was 7% and 6%, respectively, of Generation’s total electric supply. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generation’s power marketing activities. For additional information
regarding Generation’s electric generating facilities, see ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Generation.



Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One.On September 30, 2011, Generation acquired Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One (Antelope
Valley), a 230-MW solar photovoltaic (PV) project under development in northern Los Angeles County, California, from First Solar, which developed and will







build, operate, and maintain the project. Construction has started, with the first portion of the site expected to come online in late 2012 and full operation planned for late 2013. When fully
operational, Antelope Valley will be one of the largest PV solar projects in the world, with approximately 3.8 million solar panels generating enough clean, renewable electricity to power the equivalent of 75,000 average homes per year. The
project has a 25-year PPA, approved by the California Public Utilities Commission, with Pacific Gas & Electric Company for the full output of the plant. Exelon expects to invest up to $713 million in equity in the project through 2013. The
DOE’s Loan Programs Office issued a loan guarantee of up to $646 million to support project financing for Antelope Valley. Exelon expects the total investment of up to $1.36 billion to be accretive to earnings beginning in 2013 and to be
accretive to cash flows starting in 2013. The project is expected to have stable earnings and cash flow profiles due to the PPA. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Antelope
Valley acquisition.



Wolf Hollow Generating
Station.On August 24, 2011, Generation completed the acquisition of the equity interest of Wolf Hollow, LLC (Wolf Hollow), a combined-cycle natural gas-fired power plant in north Texas, for a purchase price of $311 million
pursuant to which Generation added 720 MWs of capacity within the ERCOT power market. Generation recognized a $42 million gain as part of the transaction. See Note 3 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information regarding the Wolf Hollow acquisition.



Exelon Wind.In 2010, Generation acquired 735 MWs of installed, operating wind capacity located in eight states for
approximately $893 million in cash. On January 1, 2012, Michigan Wind 2, one of the Exelon Wind development projects acquired in 2010, began commercial operations. The facility has a capacity of approximately 90MWs. In addition, Generation is
currently developing additional wind projects in Michigan with a combined capacity of approximately 140 MWs. See Note 3 and Note 1 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Exelon Wind
acquisition and new site development costs, respectively.



Plant Retirements.On May 31, 2011, Cromby Generating Station (Cromby) Unit 1 and Eddystone Generating Station (Eddystone) Unit 1
were retired; on December 31, 2011, Cromby Unit 2 was retired and Eddystone Unit 2 will retire on May 31, 2012. For more information regarding plant retirements, see Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Licenses.Fossil and renewable generation
plants are generally not licensed, and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non-Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways or Federal
lands, or connected to the interstate electric grid. The license for the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project expires on August 31, 2014 and for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Facility Project expires on September 1, 2014. In March 2009,
Generation filed a Pre-Application Document and Notice of Intent to renew the licenses, pursuant to FERC relicensing requirements. Generation plans to file license applications with FERC for both facilities in August 2012. For those plants located
within the control areas administered by PJM, notice is required to be provided before a plant can be retired.



Insurance.Generation maintains business interruption insurance for its wind and solar PV projects, and delay in start-up insurance
for its wind and solar PV projects currently under construction. Generation does not purchase business interruption insurance for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric operations. Generation maintains both property damage and liability
insurance. For property damage and liability claims, Generation is self-insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on
Exelon’s and Generation’s financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Generation.







Long-Term Contracts



In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation
sells electricity purchased under the following long-term contracts in effect as of December 31, 2011:



SellerLocationExpirationCapacity (MW)Kincaid Generation, LLCKincaid, Illinois20131,108Tenaska Georgia Partners, L.P.(a)Franklin, Georgia2030945Tenaska Frontier Partners, Ltd.(b)Shiro, Texas2020830Green Country Energy, LLC(c)Jenks, Oklahoma2022778Elwood Energy, LLCElwood, Illinois2012775Old Trail Windfarm, LLCMcLean, Illinois2026198Others(d)Various2012 to 2028391Total5,025



(a)Generation has sold its rights to 945 MW of capacity, energy and ancillary services supplied from its existing long-term contract with Tenaska Georgia Partners, L.P. through a
PPA with Georgia Power, a subsidiary of Southern Company for a 20-year period that began on June 1, 2010.

(b)On December 17, 2009, Generation entered into a PPA with Entergy Texas, Inc. (ETI) to sell 150 MWs through April 30, 2011 and 300 MWs thereafter of capacity and energy
from the Frontier Generating Station. The term of the PPA is approximately 10 years.

(c)Commencing June 1, 2012 and lasting for 10 years, Generation has agreed to sell its rights to 520 MW, or approximately two-thirds, of capacity, energy and ancillary services
supplied from its existing long-term contract with Green Country Energy, LLC through a PPA with Public Service Company of Oklahoma, a subsidiary of American Electric Power Company, Inc.

(d)Includes long-term capacity contracts with six counterparties.



Fuel



The following table shows sources of electric supply in GWh for 2011 and estimated for 2012:



Source of Electric Supply(a)20112012 (Est.)Nuclear139,297141,316Purchases—non-trading portfolio18,90818,397Fossil and renewable11,63816,466Total supply169,843176,179



(a)Represents Generation’s proportionate share of the output of its generating plants.



The fuel costs for nuclear generation are substantially less than for
fossil-fuel generation. Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost-effective way for Generation to meet its wholesale obligations and some of Generation’s retail business requirements.



The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the
mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate
inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2015. Generation’s contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2015. All of
Generation’s enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2017. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2013. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion,
enrichment or fabrication services to meet the nuclear fuel requirements of its nuclear units.







Natural gas is procured through annual, monthly and spot-market purchases. Some fossil generation
stations can use either oil or natural gas as fuel. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage
of favorable market pricing.



Generation uses financial
instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk with both over-the-counter and exchange-traded instruments. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS, ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding
derivative financial instruments.



Power Team











management group and Exelon’s RMC monitor the financial risks of the power marketing activities. Generation also uses financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes, but
this activity accounts for only a small portion of Generation’s efforts.



At December 31, 2011, Generation’s short and long-term commitments relating to the sale and purchase of energy and capacity from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows:



(in millions)Net CapacityPurchases(a)Power OnlyPurchases(b)Power OnlySalesTransmission RightsPurchases(c)2012$177$11$1,150$9201371—8346201463—346—201561—200—201661—177—Thereafter478—737—Total$911$11$3,444$15



(a)Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented as commitments represent Generation’s expected
payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2011, including certain capacity charges, which are subject to plant availability.

(b)Excludes renewable energy PPA contracts that are contingent in nature.

(c)Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts.



ComEd procures all of its electricity through a competitive procurement
process, through which Generation supplies a portion of ComEd’s load. Additionally, in order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement, Generation and ComEd entered into a five-year financial swap contract that expires on May 31,
2013. See ComEd – Retail Electric Services, Procurement Related Proceedings for additional information regarding ComEd’s procurement-related proceedings and the financial swap contract.



PECO procures all of its electricity through a competitive procurement
process, through which Generation will continue to supply a portion of PECO’s load. See PECO – Retail Electric Services, Procurement Related Proceedings for additional information regarding PECO’s competitive, full-requirements
energy-supply procurement process.



Capital Expenditures



Generation’s business is capital intensive
and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generation’s estimated capital expenditures for 2012 are as follows:



(in millions)Nuclear fuel(a)$1,173Production plant844Uprates450Renewable energy projects(b)1,301Total$3,768



(a)Includes Generation’s share of the investment in nuclear fuel for the co-owned Salem plant.

(b)Includes expenditures for Antelope Valley and Exelon Wind development projects.







ComEd



ComEd is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale
of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to a diverse base of residential, commercial and industrial customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is a public utility under the Illinois Public Utilities Act subject to
regulation by the ICC related to distribution rates and service, the issuance of securities, and certain other aspects of ComEd’s business. ComEd is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to
transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEd’s business. Specific operations of ComEd are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, ComEd is subject to mandatory
reliability standards set by the NERC.



ComEd’s retail
service territory has an area of approximately 11,400 square miles and an estimated population of 9 million. The service territory includes the City of Chicago, an area of about 225 square miles with an estimated population of 3 million. ComEd has
approximately 3.8 million customers.



ComEd’s
franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ComEd’s franchise rights are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience issued by the ICC. With
few exceptions, the franchise rights have stated expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2066. ComEd anticipates working with the appropriate agencies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration.



ComEd’s kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher
during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. ComEd’s highest peak load occurred on July 20, 2011 and was 23,753 MWs; its highest peak load during a winter season
occurred on January 15, 2009 and was 16,328 MWs.



Retail Electric
Services



Under Illinois law, transmission and
distribution service is regulated, while electric customers are allowed to purchase generation from a competitive electric generation supplier.



At December 31, 2011, approximately 380,300 retail customers representing approximately 56% of ComEd’s annual retail kWh sales, had
elected to purchase their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Customers who receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier continue to pay a delivery charge to ComEd. Under the current regulatory
mechanisms in effect, ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers, without mark-up. Thus, although energy sales affect ComEd’s reported revenues, they do not affect its net income, as the energy sales
are offset by an equal amount of purchased power expense.



Under Illinois law, ComEd is required to deliver electricity to all customers. ComEd’s obligation to provide generation supply service, which
is referred to as a POLR obligation, primarily varies by customer size. ComEd’s obligation to provide such service to residential customers and other small customers with demands of under 100 kWs continues for all customers who do not or cannot
choose a competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to ComEd after taking service from a competitive electric generation supplier. ComEd does not have a fixed-price generation supply service obligation to most of its largest
customers with demands of 100 kWs or greater, as this group of customers has previously been declared competitive. Customers with competitive declarations may still purchase power and energy from ComEd, but only at hourly market prices.



Legislation to Modernize Electric Utility Infrastructure and to
Update Illinois Ratemaking Process.On October 26, 2011, the Illinois General Assembly overrode the Governor’s veto of the Illinois Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act (SB 1652), which became effective immediately. The Illinois
General







Assembly also passed House Bill 3036 (the Trailer Bill), which modifies and supplements SB 1652. The Governor signed the Trailer Bill into law on December 30, 2011. The combined legislation
(EIMA) provides for substantial capital investment over a ten-year period to modernize Illinois’ electric utility infrastructure and for greater certainty related to the recovery of costs by a utility through a pre-established distribution
formula rate tariff. Under the terms of EIMA, ComEd’s target rate of return on common equity is subject to reduction if ComEd does not deliver the reliability and customer service benefits, as defined, it has committed to over the ten-year life
of the investment program. In addition, ComEd will make contributions to fund customer assistance programs and for a new Science and Technology Innovation Trust fund. The legislation also contains a provision for the IPA to conduct procurement
events for energy and REC requirements for the June 2013 through December 2017 period. In order to protect consumers, EIMA contains several restrictions and potential criteria for early termination, ending ComEd’s investment commitment and the
performance-based formula rates.



On November 8, 2011,
ComEd filed its initial formula rate tariff and associated testimony based on 2010 costs and 2011 plant additions. The ICC will review ComEd’s rate filing to evaluate the prudence and reasonableness of the costs and issue its order in a
shortened proceeding. This rate will take effect 30 days after the ICC order, which must be issued by May 31, 2012. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Electric Distribution Rate Cases



On May 24, 2011, the ICC issued an order in ComEd’s 2010 electric distribution rate case, which became effective on June 1, 2011. The
order approved a $143 million increase to ComEd’s annual delivery services revenue requirement and a 10.5% rate of return on common equity. The order allowed ComEd to establish or reestablish a net amount of approximately $40 million of
previously expensed plant balances or new regulatory assets, which is reflected as a reduction in operating and maintenance expense and income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2011. The order has been appealed to the Court by several
parties. ComEd cannot predict the results of these appeals. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEd’s electric distribution rate cases.



Procurement-Related Proceedings.ComEd is permitted to recover
its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark-up. Since June 2009, under the Illinois Settlement Legislation, the IPA designs, and the ICC approves, an electricity supply portfolio for ComEd and the IPA administers a
competitive process under which ComEd procures its electricity supply from various suppliers, including Generation. In order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement Legislation,







ComEd hedged the price of a significant portion of energy purchased on the spot market with a five-year variable-to-fixed financial swap contract with Generation that expires on May 31,
2013. See Notes 2 and 9 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEd’s procurement-related proceedings and the financial swap contract.



Continuous Power Interruption.Illinois law provides that in the
event an electric utility, such as ComEd, experiences a continuous power interruption of four hours or more that affects (in ComEd’s case) 30,000 or more customers, the utility may be liable for actual damages suffered by customers as a result
of the interruption and may be responsible for reimbursement of local governmental emergency and contingency expenses incurred in connection with the interruption. Recovery of consequential damages is barred. The affected utility may seek from the
ICC a waiver of these liabilities when the utility can show that the cause of the interruption was unpreventable damage due to weather events or conditions, customer tampering, or certain other causes enumerated in the law. ComEd does not believe
that during the years 2011, 2010 and 2009 it had any interruptions that have triggered this damage liability or reimbursement requirement.



On August 18, 2011, ComEd sought from the ICC a determination that ComEd is not liable under provisions of the Illinois Public Utilities Act
that could require damage compensation to customers in connection with the July 11, 2011 storm system that affected more than 900,000 customers in ComEd’s service territory, as well as five other storm systems that affected ComEd’s
customers during June and July 2011. In the absence of a favorable determination from the ICC, some ComEd customers affected by the outages could seek recovery of their actual, non-consequential damages, and the local governments in which those
customers are located could seek recovery of emergency and contingency expenses. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Construction Budget



ComEd’s business is capital intensive and requires significant
investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities, to ensure the adequate capacity and reliability of its system. Based on PJM’s RTEP, ComEd has various construction commitments, as discussed in Note 2 of the Combined
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEd’s most recent estimate of capital expenditures for electric plant additions and improvements for 2012 is $1,330 million, which includes RTEP projects and infrastructure modernization resulting
from EIMA. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information.



PECO



PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale
of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of
distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is a public utility under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Code subject to regulation by the PAPUC as to electric and gas distribution
rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of PECO’s operations. PECO is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of
PECO’s business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation as to pipeline safety and other areas of gas operations. Specific operations of PECO are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies.
Additionally, PECO is also subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards.







PECO’s combined electric and natural gas retail service territory has an area of approximately
2,100 square miles and an estimated population of 4.0 million. PECO provides electric distribution service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles, with a population of approximately 3.9 million, including approximately 1.5 million
in the City of Philadelphia. PECO provides natural gas distribution service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles in southeastern Pennsylvania adjacent to the City of Philadelphia, with a population of approximately 2.4 million. PECO
delivers electricity to approximately 1.6 million customers and natural gas to approximately 494,000 customers.



PECO has the necessary authorizations to provide regulated electric and natural gas distribution service in the various municipalities or
territories in which it now supplies such services. PECO’s authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and/or “grandfathered rights,” which are rights generally unlimited as to
time and generally exclusive from competition from other electric and natural gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECO’s natural gas service territory authorizations overlap with that of another natural gas utility; however, PECO
does not consider those situations as posing a material competitive or financial threat.



PECO’s kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. PECO’s highest
peak load occurred on July 22, 2011 and was 8,983 MW; its highest peak load during winter months occurred on December 20, 2004 and was 6,838 MW.



PECO’s natural gas sales are generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. PECO’s
highest daily natural gas send out occurred on January 17, 2000 and was 718 mmcf.



Retail Electric Services



PECO’s retail electric sales and distribution service revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. Under the 1998 restructuring settlement, PECO’s electric generation rates were capped
through a transition period that ended on December 31, 2010. During the transition period, PECO was authorized to recover from customers $5.3 billion of costs that might not have otherwise been recovered in a competitive market (stranded costs)
with a 10.75% return on the unamortized balance through the imposition and collection of a non-bypassable CTC, which was a component of the capped electric generation rate on customer bills. As of December 31, 2010, PECO’s stranded costs
were fully recovered.



Beginning January 1, 2011,
PECO’s electric supply procurement cost rates charged to default service customers are subject to adjustments at least quarterly to recover or refund the difference between PECO’s actual cost of electricity delivered and the amount
included in rates without markup through the GSA.



Pennsylvania permits competition by EGSs for the supply of retail electricity while retail transmission and distribution service remains regulated
under the Competition Act. At December 31, 2011, there were 59 alternative EGSs serving PECO customers. At December 31, 2011, the number of retail customers purchasing energy from an alternative EGS was 387,628, representing approximately
25% of total retail customers. Retail deliveries purchased from EGSs represented approximately 57% of PECO’s retail kWh sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. This represents a significant increase from prior years due to the
expiration of electric generation rate caps that were lower than market prices during the transition period. Customers that choose an alternative EGS are not subject to rates for PECO’s electric supply procurement costs and retail transmission
service charges. PECO presents on customer bills its electric supply Price to Compare, which is updated quarterly, to assist customers with the evaluation of offers from alternative EGSs.







Customer selection of an alternative EGS or PECO as default service provider does not impact
PECO’s results of operations or financial position. PECO’s cost of electric supply is passed directly through to default service customers without markup. For those customers that choose an alternative EGS, PECO will act as the billing
agent but will not record revenues or expenses related to this electric supply. PECO remains the distribution service provider for all customers in its service territory and charges a regulated rate for distribution service.



Electric Distribution Rate Case.In December 2010, the
PAPUC approved a settlement of PECO’s electric distribution rate case filed in August 2010 that provides for an annual revenue increase of $225 million. The approved electric distribution rates became effective on January 1, 2011.



Procurement Proceedings.Prior to January 1,
2011, PECO procured all its electric supply under a full requirements PPA with Generation, which expired on December 31, 2010. The term and procurement costs under the PPA with Generation corresponded with PECO’s transition period and
capped electric generation rates in accordance with its 1998 restructuring settlement. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECO’s electric supply for its customers is procured through contracts executed in accordance with its current PAPUC-approved
DSP Program. PECO has entered into contracts with PAPUC-approved bidders as part of its six competitive procurements conducted since June 2009 for its default electric supply beginning January 2011, which included fixed price full requirement
contracts for all procurement classes, spot market price full requirements contracts for the commercial and industrial procurement classes, and block energy contracts for the residential procurement class. PECO will conduct three additional
competitive procurements for electric supply for all customer classes during the term of its current DSP Program, which expires on May 31, 2013.



On January 13, 2012, PECO filed its second Default Service Plan for approval with the PAPUC, which outlined how PECO will purchase electric
supply for default service customers from June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. The plan proposed to procure electric supply through a combination of one-year and two-year fixed full requirements contracts, reduce the amount of time between
when the energy is purchased and when it is provided to customers and complete an annual, rather than quarterly, reconciliation of costs for actual versus forecasted energy use. The plan also proposed several new programs to continue PECO’s
support of retail market competition in Pennsylvania in accordance with the order issued by the PAPUC on December 15, 2011. Hearings on the filing will be held in the summer of 2012 with a PAPUC ruling expected in mid-October 2012.



See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information.



Smart Meter and Energy Efficiency
Programs



Smart Meter Programs.In April
2010, the PAPUC approved PECO’s $550 million Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, which was filed in accordance with the requirements of Act 129. Also, in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for
SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. Under the SGIG, PECO has been awarded $200 million, the maximum grant allowable under the program, for its SGIG project – Smart Future Greater Philadelphia. As a result of the SGIG funding, PECO will deploy
600,000 smart meters by 2013, accelerate universal deployment of more than 1.6 million smart meters by 2020 and increase smart grid investments to approximately $100 million through 2013. In total, through 2020, PECO plans to spend up to $650
million on its smart grid and smart meter infrastructure. The SGIG funding will be used to significantly reduce the impact of those investments on PECO customers.



Energy Efficiency Programs.PECO’s approved four-year
EE&C plan totals approximately $328 million and includes a CFL program, weatherization programs, an energy efficiency appliance rebate and trade-in program, rebates and energy efficiency programs for non-profit, educational,







governmental and business customers, customer incentives for energy management programs and incentives to help customers reduce energy demand during peak periods. In July 2011, PECO filed a
petition to make adjustments to its EE&C Plan. The filing noted that PECO has exceeded the 1% energy use reduction target required by May 31, 2011 in accordance with Act 129; the adjustments, which were approved by the PAPUC on
August 18, 2011, will allow PECO to meet its May 31, 2013 targets for energy use and energy demand reductions, while remaining within its approved plan budget.



See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for additional information.



Natural
Gas



PECO’s natural gas sales and
distribution service revenues are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. PECO’s purchased natural gas cost rates, which represent a significant portion of total rates, are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or
refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates without markup through the PGC.



PECO’s natural gas customers have the right to choose their natural gas suppliers or to purchase their gas supply from PECO at cost. In 2011,
40% of PECO’s current total yearly throughput was provided by natural gas suppliers other than PECO, of which, 34% was for commercial and industrial customers participating in PECO’s High Volume Transportation Program and 6% was for
residential and small commercial customers participating in PECO’s Low Volume Transportation Choice Program. PECO provides distribution service, billing, metering, installation, maintenance and emergency response services at regulated rates to
all customers in PECO’s service territory.



Natural
Gas Distribution Rate Cases.On January 1, 2009, PECO implemented the natural gas distribution rates approved by the PAPUC in its settlement of the 2008 natural gas distribution rate case that provided for an additional $77 million of
revenue annually. In December 2010, the PAPUC approved a settlement of PECO’s natural gas distribution rate case filed in August 2010 that provides an increase in annual revenue of $20 million, which became effective in natural gas
distribution rates on January 1, 2011.



Procurement
Proceedings.PECO’s natural gas supply is purchased from a number of suppliers primarily under long-term firm transportation contracts for terms of up to two years in accordance with its annual PAPUC PGC settlement. PECO’s aggregate
annual firm supply under these firm transportation contracts is 46 million dekatherms. Peak natural gas is provided by PECO’s liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility and propane-air plant. PECO also has under contract 23 million
dekatherms of underground storage through service agreements. Natural gas from underground storage represents approximately 30% of PECO’s 2011-2012 heating season planned supplies.



See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Construction Budget



PECO’s business is capital intensive and requires significant
investments primarily in electric transmission and electric and natural gas distribution facilities to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. PECO, as a transmission facilities owner, has various construction
commitments under PJM’s RTEP as discussed in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECO’s most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2012 is $436 million, which
includes capital expenditures related to the smart meter program and SGIG project net of DOE expected reimbursements.







ComEd and PECO



Transmission Services



ComEd and PECO provide unbundled transmission service under rates established by FERC. FERC has used its regulation of transmission to encourage
competition for wholesale generation services and the development of regional structures to facilitate regional wholesale markets. Under FERC’s open access transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, ComEd and PECO, as owners of
transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost-based rates. ComEd and PECO are required to comply with FERC’s Standards of Conduct regulation, as amended, governing the
communication of non-public information between the transmission owner’s employees and wholesale merchant employees.



PJM is the ISO and the FERC-approved RTO for the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of,
the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff), operates the PJM energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls the day-to-day operations of the bulk power system for the PJM region. ComEd and PECO are members of
PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. ComEd, PECO and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are currently under the
dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region-wide, open-access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM members at rates based on the costs of transmission service.



ComEd’s transmission rates are established based on a formula that
was approved by FERC in January 2008. FERC’s order establishes the agreed-upon treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on an annual
basis.



As a result of PECO’s 1998 restructuring
settlement, retail transmission rates were capped at the level in effect on December 31, 1996, which remained unchanged through December 31, 2010. Beginning January 1, 2011, PECO default service customers are charged for retail
transmission services through a rider designed to recover PECO’s PJM transmission network service charges and RTEP charges on a full and current basis in accordance with the 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement.



The transmission rate in the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff under
which PECO incurs costs to serve its default service customers and earns revenue as a transmission facility owner is a FERC-approved rate. This is the rate that all load serving entities in the PECO transmission zone pay for wholesale transmission
service.



See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information regarding transmission services.







Employees



As of December 31, 2011, Exelon and its subsidiaries had 19,267
employees in the following companies, of which 8,567 or 44% were covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs):



IBEW Local 15(a)IBEW Local 614(b)Other CBAs(c)Total EmployeesCovered by CBAsTotalEmployeesGeneration1,6971501,8133,6609,586ComEd3,561——3,5615,769PECO—1,237—1,2372,418Other(d)82—271091,494Total5,3401,3871,8408,56719,267



(a)A separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15, ratified on November 20, 2009, covers approximately 42 employees in ComEd’s System Services Group.

(b)1,237 PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory are covered by CBAs with IBEW Local 614. The CBAs expire on March 31, 2015. Additionally,
Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires on March 31, 2015 and covers 150 employees.

(c)During 2009 and early 2010, CBAs were agreed to with the following Security Officers unions: Braidwood, Byron, Clinton, Dresden, Oyster Creek and TMI. The agreements generally
expire between 2013 and 2015, except for the agreements at Braidwood, Byron and TMI, which expire in 2012. Additionally, during 2009, a 5-year agreement was reached with Oyster Creek Nuclear Local 1289, which will expire in 2015. In 2010, a 3-year
agreement was negotiated with New England ENEH, UWUA Local 369, which will expire in 2014, and covers 10 employees. In 2011, four 3-year agreements were reached at Braidwood, Dresden, LaSalle and Quad Cities.

(d)Other includes shared services employees at BSC.



Environmental Regulation



General



Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO are subject to environmental regulation administered by the U.S. EPA and various state and local environmental
protection agencies or boards. State and local regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste disposals. The Registrants are also subject to legislation regarding environmental matters by the United
States Congress and by various state and local jurisdictions where the Registrants operate their facilities.



The Exelon board of directors is responsible for overseeing the management of environmental matters. Exelon has a management team to address
environmental matters, including the CEO who also serves as Exelon’s Chief Environmental Officer; the Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Exelon 2020; the Corporate Environmental Strategy Director and the Environmental Regulatory Strategy
Director, as well as senior management of Generation, ComEd and PECO. Performance for those individuals directly involved in environmental strategy activities is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual performance review
process. The Exelon board has delegated to its corporate governance committee authority to oversee Exelon’s strategies and efforts to protect and improve the quality of the environment, including, but not limited to, Exelon’s climate
change and sustainability policies and programs, and Exelon 2020, Exelon’s comprehensive business and environmental plan, as discussed in further detail below. The Exelon board has also delegated to its generation oversight committee authority
to oversee environmental, health and safety issues relating to Generation, and to its energy delivery oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues related to ComEd and PECO.



Water



Under the Clean Water Act, NPDES permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the U.S. EPA or
from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated and must be renewed periodically. All of Generation’s power generation facilities







discharge industrial wastewater into waterways and are therefore subject to these regulations and operate under NPDES permits or pending applications for renewals of such permits after being
granted an administrative extension.



See Note 18 of the
Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact to Exelon of state permitting agencies’ administration of the Phase II rule implementing Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, as well as
the planned cessation of generation operations at Oyster Creek.



Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and regional agencies and compacts, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission.



Solid and Hazardous Waste



The CERCLA provides for immediate response and removal actions
coordinated by the U.S. EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental
hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally
liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the U.S. EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These PRPs can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with a U.S. EPA-directed cleanup, may
voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and
Pennsylvania, have also enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the RCRA governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted.



Generation, ComEd and PECO and their subsidiaries are or
are likely to become parties to proceedings initiated by the U.S. EPA, state agencies and/or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including MGP sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites
for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party.



Environmental Remediation



ComEd’s and PECO’s environmental liabilities primarily arise from contamination at former MGP sites. MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to the 1950s. ComEd and PECO
generally did not operate MGPs as corporate entities but did acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities, for which they may be liable for environmental remediation. ComEd, pursuant to an ICC order, and PECO, pursuant to the
joint settlements of the 2008 and 2010 natural gas distribution rate cases, are recovering environmental remediation costs of the MGP sites through a provision within customer rates. PECO’s 2010 natural gas distribution rate case increased the
annual MGP recovery to be collected from customers beginning in January 2011.



The amount to be expended in 2012 at Exelon for compliance with environmental remediation is expected to total $32 million, consisting of $26 million and $6 million at ComEd and PECO, respectively. In addition,
Generation, ComEd and PECO may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable.



Generation’s environmental liabilities primarily arise from contamination at current or former generation facilities. As of December 31,
2011, Generation has established an appropriate accrual to comply with environmental remediation requirements which includes an accrual for contamination attributable to low level radioactive residues at a storage and reprocessing facility named
Latty Avenue near St. Louis, Missouri formerly owned by Cotter Corporation, a former ComEd subsidiary.







See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information regarding the Registrants’ environmental remediation efforts and related impacts to the Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows and financial position.



Air



Air quality regulations promulgated by the U.S.
EPA and the various state and local environmental agencies in Illinois, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Amendments) impose restrictions on emission of
particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emissions sources. Such
permits have been obtained by Exelon’s subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution, including a two-phase program to reduce acid rain
effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2and NOxfrom power plants. Flue-gas desulfurization systems (SO2scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generation’s owned coal-fired units.



See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information regarding clean air regulation and legislation in the forms of the CSAPR, the regulation of hazardous air pollutants from coal- and oil-fired electric generating facilities under the Mercury and Air Toxics
(MATS) rule, and regulation of GHG emissions, in addition to NOVs issued to Generation and ComEd for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act.



Global Climate Change



Exelon believes the evidence of global climate change is compelling and that the energy industry, though not alone, is a
significant contributor to the human-caused emissions of GHGs that many in the scientific community believe contribute to global climate change, as reported by the National Academy of Sciences in May 2011. Exelon, as a producer of electricity from
predominantly low-carbon generating facilities (such as nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar photovoltaic), has a relatively small GHG emission profile, or carbon footprint, compared to other domestic generators of electricity. By virtue of its
significant investment in low-carbon intensity assets, Generation’s emission intensity, or rate of carbon dioxide equivalent
(CO


e) emitted per unit of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the
industry. Exelon does produce GHG emissions, primarily at its fossil fuel-fired generating plants; CO


, methane and nitrous oxide are all emitted in this process, with CO


representing the largest portion of these GHG emissions. GHG emissions from Generation’s combustion of fossil fuels represent approximately 90% of Exelon’s total GHG emissions. However, only
approximately 5% of Exelon’s total electric supply is provided by its fossil fuel generating plants. Other GHG emission sources at Exelon include natural gas (methane) leakage on the gas pipeline system and the coal piles at its generating
plants, sulfur hexafluoride (SF


) leakage in its electric operations and
refrigerant leakage from its chilling and cooling equipment as well as fossil fuel combustion in its motor vehicles and usage of electricity in its facilities. Despite its small carbon footprint, Exelon believes its operations could be significantly
affected by the possible physical risks of climate change and by mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS for information regarding the market and financial, regulatory and legislative, and operational risks
associated with climate change.



Climate Change
Regulation.Exelon is, or may become, subject to climate change regulation or legislation at the international, Federal, regional and state levels.



International Climate Change Regulation.At the international level, the United States is currently not a party to the Kyoto Protocol,
which is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and became effective for signatories on February 16, 2005. The United Nations’ Kyoto Protocol process generally requires developed countries to cap
GHG emissions at certain levels during the 2008-2012 time period. At the conclusion of the December 2011 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 17) Conference in Durban, South Africa, a







package of decisions was adopted that initiate another commitment phase for the Kyoto Protocol and initiating a new round of discussions with the objective of establishing a successor agreement
by 2015 that would commence beginning in 2020. These decisions build on the agreements reached in the 2009 Copenhagen Accord, including the United States agreeing to undertake a number of voluntary measures, including the establishment of a goal to
reduce GHG emissions and contributions toward a fund to assist developing nations to address their GHG emissions.



Federal Climate Change Legislation and Regulation.Various stakeholders, including Exelon, legislators and regulators, shareholders and
non-governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors are considering ways to address the climate change issue. It is uncertain when any mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions would be established in the future. If
these programs become effective, Exelon may incur costs either to further limit or offset the GHG emissions from its operations or to procure emission allowances or credits.



The U.S. EPA is addressing the issue of GHG emissions regulation for
new stationary sources through its proposed New Source Performance Standard under the existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. Such proposed regulation has the potential to cause Exelon to incur material costs of compliance for GHG emissions from
stationary sources.



Regional and State Climate Change
Legislation and Regulation.At a regional level, on November 15, 2007, six Midwest state Governors (Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin) signed the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Accord. Under that Accord, an
inter-state work group was formed to establish a Midwestern GHG Reduction Program that will: (1) establish GHG reduction targets and timeframes consistent with member state targets; (2) develop a market-based and multi-sector cap-and-trade
program to help achieve GHG reductions; and (3) develop other mechanisms and policies to assist in meeting GHG reduction targets (e.g. a low carbon fuel standard). In May 2010, an advisory group appointed by the Governors issued
recommendations, but no actions have been taken on the recommendations.



At the state level, the PCCA was signed into law in Pennsylvania in July 2008. The PCCA requires, among other things, that: a Climate Change Advisory Committee be formed; a report on the potential impact of climate
change in Pennsylvania be developed; the PA DEP develop a GHG inventory for Pennsylvania; a voluntary GHG registry be identified; and the PA DEP, in consultation with the Climate Change Advisory Committee, develop a Climate Change Action Plan for
Pennsylvania to be reviewed with the Pennsylvania General Assembly. The Climate Change Advisory Committee issued its recommendations for an Action Plan for consideration by the Pennsylvania legislature on October 9, 2009.



Exelon’s Voluntary Climate Change Efforts. In a world
increasingly concerned about global climate change, nuclear power as well as other virtually non-GHG emitting power will play a pivotal role. As a result, Exelon’s low-carbon generating fleet is seen by management as a competitive advantage.
Exelon believes that the significance of its low GHG emission profile can only grow as policymakers take action to address global climate change.



Despite Exelon’s low GHG emission intensity and the absence of a mandatory national program in the United States, Exelon is
actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts. Exelon made a voluntary commitment in 2005 under the U.S. EPA’s Climate Leaders Program to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. Exelon achieved this goal by
reducing its CO2e emissions to 9.7 million metric tons in 2008, from a 2001
baseline of 15.7 million metric tons. This was accomplished through the retirement of older, inefficient fossil power plants, reduced leakage of SF6, increased use of renewable energy and energy efficiency initiatives.







In 2008, Exelon expanded its commitment to GHG reduction with the announcement of a comprehensive
business and environmental strategic plan. The plan, Exelon 2020, details an enterprise-wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce Exelon’s GHG emissions and those of its customers, communities,
suppliers and markets. Exelon 2020 sets a goal for Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels).





Exelon
has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans and has an organized implementation effort underway. This implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of Exelon 2020 initiatives in light of changing market
conditions. Specific initiatives and the amount of expenditures to implement the plan will depend on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project-by-project basis in accordance with Exelon’s normal project evaluation
standards. As further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of air pollutants are promulgated, Exelon’s emissions reduction efforts will position the company to benefit from the long-term positive impact of the
requirements on capacity and energy prices while minimizing the impact of costs of compliance on Exelon’s operations, cash flows or financial position.



The Exelon 2020 strategy is reviewed annually and updated to reflect changes in the market, regulations, technology and other factors that affect
the merit of various GHG abatement options. In spite of the recent economic downturn, the decline in wholesale power prices and the uncertainty of Federal climate policy, Exelon 2020 strategy has been demonstrated to be a sustainable business
strategy.



Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards



Thirty-three states have adopted some form of RPS
requirement. As previously described, Illinois and Pennsylvania have laws specifically addressing energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered
again in the future by the United States Congress. Also, states that currently do not have RPS requirements may adopt such legislation in the future.







The Illinois Settlement Legislation required that procurement plans implemented by electric utilities
include cost-effective renewable energy resources or approved equivalents such as RECs in amounts that equal or exceed 2% of the total electricity that each electric utility supplies to its eligible retail customers by June 1, 2008, increasing
to 10% by June 1, 2015, with a goal of 25% by June 1, 2025. Utilities are allowed to pass-through any costs from the procurement of these renewable resources or approved equivalents subject to legislated rate impact criteria. As of
December 31, 2011, ComEd had purchased sufficient renewable energy resources or equivalents, such as RECs, to comply with the Illinois Settlement Legislation. See Note 2 and Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information.



The AEPS Act was effective for PECO
on January 1, 2011, following the expiration of PECO’s transition period. During 2011, PECO was required to supply approximately 3.5% and 6.2% of electric energy generated from Tier I (including solar, wind power, low-impact hydropower,
geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy, coal mine methane and black liquor generated within Pennsylvania) and Tier II (including waste coal, demand-side management, large-scale hydropower, municipal solid
waste, generation of electricity utilizing by-products of the pulping process and wood, distributed generation systems and integrated combined coal gasification technology) alternative energy resources, respectively, as measured in AECs. The
compliance requirements will incrementally escalate to 8.0% for Tier I and 10.0% for Tier II by 2021. In order to comply with these requirements, PECO entered into agreements with varying terms with accepted bidders, including Generation, to
purchase non-solar Tier I, solar Tier 1 and Tier II AECs. PECO also purchases AECs through its DSP Program full requirement contracts.



Similar to ComEd and PECO, Generation’s retail electric business must source a portion of the electric load it serves in Illinois and
Pennsylvania from renewable resources or approved equivalents such as RECs. While Generation is not directly affected by RPS or AEPS legislation from a compliance perspective, potential regulation and legislation regarding renewable and alternative
energy resources could increase the pace of development of wind and other renewable/alternative energy resources, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity in some markets where Exelon operates generation assets.
At the same time, such developments may present some opportunities for sales of Generation’s renewable power, including from Exelon Wind, Generation’s hydroelectric and landfill gas generating stations and wind energy PPAs.



See Note 2 and Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information.



Executive Officers of the Registrants as of February 9, 2012



NameAgePositionPeriodRowe, John W.66Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon2000 - PresentChairman, Generation2008 - PresentChairman, PECO2007 - PresentPresident, Exelon2004 - 2008President, Generation2007 - 2008Director, ComEd2009 - PresentDirector, PECO2005 - Present









NameAgePositionPeriod

Crane, Christopher M.53President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon; President, Generation2008 - Present

Chief Operating Officer, Generation2007 - 2010

Executive Vice President, Exelon2007 - 2008

President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Exelon2004 - 2007

Clark, Frank M.66Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd2005 - Present

Director, ComEd2002 - Present

O’Brien, Denis P.51Chief Executive Officer, PECO; Executive Vice President, Exelon2007 - Present

President and Director, PECO2003 - Present

Gillis, Ruth Ann M.57President, Exelon Business Services Company2005 - Present

Executive Vice President, Exelon2008 - Present

Chief Administrative and Diversity Officer, Exelon2010 - Present

Chief Diversity Officer, Exelon2009 - 2010

Senior Vice President, Exelon2002 - 2008

Von Hoene Jr., William A.58Executive Vice President, Finance and Legal, Exelon2009 - Present

Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon2008 - 2009

Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company2004 - 2009

Senior Vice President, Exelon2006 - 2008

Hilzinger, Matthew F.48Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon; Chief Financial Officer, Generation2008 - Present

Treasurer, Exelon, Generation and Exelon Business Services Company; Assistant Treasurer, ComEd; Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company2011 - Present

Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon2005 - 2008

Cornew, Kenneth W.46Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team2008 - Present

Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination, Power Team2007 - 2008

Dominguez, Joseph48Senior Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs & Public Policy, Exelon2010 - Present

Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs, Generation2010 - Present

Senior Vice President, State Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, Generation2010 - 2010

Senior Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs, Exelon2009 - 2010

Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company; Senior Vice President, Generation2007 - 2010

Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Exelon Business Services Company2004 - 2007







NameAgePositionPeriodPramaggiore, Anne R.53President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd2009 - PresentExecutive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd2007 - 2009Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd2005 - 2007Bradford, Darryl M.56Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon2010 - PresentGeneral Counsel, ComEd2007 - 2010Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy, ComEd2009 - 2010Senior Vice President, ComEd2007 - 2009DesParte, Duane M.48Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon2008 - PresentVice President, Finance, Exelon Business Services Company2007 - 2008



Generation



NameAgePositionPeriodRowe, John W.66Chairman, Generation2008 - PresentChairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon2000 - PresentChairman, PECO2007 - PresentPresident, Generation2007 - 2008President, Exelon2004 - 2008Director, ComEd2009 - PresentDirector, PECO2005 - PresentCrane, Christopher M.53President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon; President, Generation2008 - PresentChief Operating Officer, Generation2007 - 2010Executive Vice President, Exelon2007 - 2008President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Exelon2004 - 2007Pardee, Charles G.52Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Generation2010 - PresentPresident, Exelon Nuclear2008 -2010Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation2007 - 2010Senior Vice President, Generation2007 - 2008Chief Operating Officer, Generation2005 - 2007Cornew, Kenneth W.46Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team2008 - PresentSenior Vice President, Trading and Origination, Power Team2007 - 2008Pacilio, Michael J.51President, Exelon Nuclear and Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation2010 - PresentChief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear2007 - 2010Senior Vice President, Mid-West PWR Operations, Exelon Nuclear2005 - 2007









NameAgePositionPeriod

Garg, Sunil45Senior Vice President, Generation; President, Exelon Power2010 - Present

Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Exelon; Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company2009 - 2010

Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company2007 - 2009

Director of Integrated Business Services, Exelon Business Services Company2004 - 2007

Dominguez, Joseph48Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs, Generation2010 - Present

Senior Vice President, Federal Regulatory Affairs & Public Policy, Exelon2010 - Present

Senior Vice President, State Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, Generation2010 - 2010

Senior Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs, Exelon2009 - 2010

Senior Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company; Senior Vice President, Generation2007 - 2010

Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Exelon Business Services Company2004 - 2007

Hilzinger, Matthew F.48Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon; Chief Financial Officer, Generation2008 - Present

Treasurer, Exelon, Generation and Exelon Business Services Company; Assistant Treasurer, ComEd; Vice President, Exelon Business Services Company2011 - Present

Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon2005 - 2008

Galvanoni, Matthew R.39Chief Accounting Officer, Generation; Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon Business Services Company2009 - Present

Vice President, Comptroller, Accountant and Controller, ComEd; Vice President and Controller, PECO2007 - 2009







ComEd





NameAgePositionPeriod

Clark, Frank M.66Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd2005 - Present

Director, ComEd2002 - Present

Pramaggiore, Anne R.53President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd2009 - Present

Executive Vice President, Customer Operations, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd2007 - 2009

Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd2005 - 2007

Hooker, John T.63Executive Vice President, Legislative and External Affairs, ComEd2009 - Present

Senior Vice President, State Governmental Affairs and Real Estate and Facilities, ComEd2008 - 2009

Senior Vice President, State, Legislative and Governmental Affairs, ComEd2005 - 2008

Donnelly, Terence R.51Executive Vice President, Operations, ComEd2009 - Present

Senior Vice President, Transmission and Distribution, ComEd2007 - 2009

Senior Vice President, Technical Services, PECO; Senior Vice President, Technical Services, ComEd2007 - 2007

Vice President, Transmission and Substations, Exelon Energy Delivery; Vice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd2004 - 2007

Trpik Jr., Joseph R.42Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, ComEd2009 - Present

Vice President & Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon Business Services Company2007 - 2009

Vice President and Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon2004 - 2009

Marquez Jr., Fidel50Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd2009 - Present

Vice President of External Affairs and Large Customer Services, ComEd2007 - 2009

O’Neill, Thomas S.49Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy and General Counsel, ComEd2010 - Present

Senior Vice President, Exelon2009 - 2010

Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Generation; Senior Vice President, New Business Development, Exelon2009 - 2009

Vice President, New Plant Development, Generation2007 - 2009

Vice President, Licensing and Regulatory, Exelon Nuclear2005 - 2007







NameAgePositionPeriodAnthony, J. Tyler47Senior Vice President, Distribution Operations, ComEd2010 - PresentVice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd2007 - 2010Vice President, Transmission and Substations, PECO2007 - 2007Vice President, Outage Planning and Services, Generation2006 - 2007Waden, Kevin J.40Vice President, Comptroller, Accountant and Controller, ComEd2009 - PresentDirector of Accounting Operations, ComEd2007 - 2009Director of Financial Reporting and Accounting Research, Exelon Energy Delivery2003 - 2007



PECO



NameAgePositionPeriodRowe, John W.66Chairman, Generation2008 - PresentChairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Exelon2000 - PresentChairman, PECO2007 - PresentPresident, Generation2007 - 2008President, Exelon2004 - 2008Director. CornEd2009 - PresentDirector, PECO2005 - PresentO’Brien, Denis P.51Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, PECO2007 - PresentPresident and Director, PECO2003 - PresentAdams, Craig L.59Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PECO2007 - PresentSenior Vice President and Chief Supply Officer, Exelon Business Services Company2004 - 2007Barnett, Phillip S.48Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PECO2007 - PresentSenior Vice President, Corporate Financial Planning, Exelon2005 - 2007Bonney, Paul R.53Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and General Counsel, PECO2009 - PresentGeneral Counsel, Vice President & Assistant Secretary, PECO2007 - 2009Vice President & Deputy General Counsel, Regulatory, Exelon Business Services Company2001 - 2007Diaz Jr., Romulo L.65Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO2009 - PresentAssociate General Counsel, Exelon2008 - 2009City Solicitor, City of Philadelphia2005 - 2008Acevedo, Jorge A.40Vice President and Controller, PECO2009 - PresentAssistant Treasurer, PECO2010 - PresentAssistant Controller, Generation2007 - 2009Director of Accounting, Power Team division of Generation2003 - 2007







