ITEM 1.BUSINESS



General



Corporate Structure and Business and Other Information



Exelon, incorporated in Pennsylvania in February 1999, is a utility services holding company engaged, through Generation, in the energy generation business, and through ComEd, PECO and BGE, in the energy delivery
businesses discussed below. Exelon’s principal executive offices are located at 10 South Dearborn Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603, and its telephone number is 312-394-7398.



Generation



Generation’s integrated business consists of the generation,
physical delivery and marketing of power across multiple geographical regions through its customer-facing business, Constellation, which sells electricity and natural gas to both wholesale and retail customers. Generation also sells renewable energy
and other energy-related products and services, and engages in natural gas and oil exploration and production activities (Upstream). Generation has six reportable segments consisting of the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, New England, New York, ERCOT and
Other Regions.



Generation was formed in 2000 as a
Pennsylvania limited liability company. Generation began operations as a result of a corporate restructuring, effective January 1, 2001, in which Exelon separated its generation and other competitive businesses from its regulated energy
delivery businesses at ComEd and PECO.



Generation’s
principal executive offices are located at 300 Exelon Way, Kennett Square, Pennsylvania 19348, and its telephone number is 610-765-5959.



ComEd



ComEd’s energy delivery business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity
transmission and distribution services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago.



ComEd was organized in the State of Illinois in 1913 as a result of the merger of Cosmopolitan Electric Company into the original corporation named
Commonwealth Edison Company, which was incorporated in 1907. ComEd’s principal executive offices are located at 440 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60605, and its telephone number is 312-394-4321.



PECO



PECO’s energy delivery business consists of the purchase and
regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity transmission and distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of
natural gas and the provision of natural gas distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia.



PECO was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1929. PECO’s principal executive offices are located at 2301 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
19103, and its telephone number is 215-841-4000.







BGE



BGE’s energy delivery business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision
of electricity transmission and distribution services to retail customers in central Maryland, including the City of Baltimore, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of natural gas distribution services
to retail customers in central Maryland, including the City of Baltimore.



BGE was incorporated in Maryland in 1906. BGE’s principal executive offices are located at 110 West Fayette Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21201, and its telephone number is 410-234-5000.



Operating Segments



See Note 24—Segment Information of the Combined Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Exelon’s operating segments.



Pending Merger with Pepco Holdings, Inc.



On April 29, 2014, Exelon and PHI signed an agreement and plan of merger (as subsequently amended and restated as of July 18, 2014) to combine the two companies in an all cash transaction. The
resulting company will retain the Exelon name and be headquartered in Chicago. The merger is expected to be completed in the second or third quarter of 2015. See Note 4—Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Combined Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the pending transaction.



Generation





Generation is a public utility under the Federal Power Act and is subject to FERC’s exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of
electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. Under the Federal Power Act, FERC has the authority to grant or deny market-based rates for sales of energy, capacity and ancillary services to ensure that such sales are just
and reasonable. FERC’s jurisdiction over ratemaking also includes the authority to suspend the market-based rates of utilities and set cost-based rates should FERC find that its previous grant of market-based rates authority is no longer just
and reasonable. Other matters subject to FERC jurisdiction include, but are







not limited to, third-party financings; review of mergers; dispositions of jurisdictional facilities and acquisitions of securities of another public utility or an existing operational generating
facility; affiliate transactions; intercompany financings and cash management arrangements; certain internal corporate reorganizations; and certain holding company acquisitions of public utility and holding company securities. Additionally, ERCOT is
not subject to regulation by FERC but performs a similar function in Texas to that performed by RTOs in markets regulated by FERC. Specific operations of Generation are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and
local agencies, including the NRC and Federal and state environmental protection agencies. Additionally, Generation is subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the NERC, with the approval of FERC.



RTOs and ISOs exist in a number of regions to provide transmission
service across multiple transmission systems. PJM, MISO, ISO-NE and SPP, have been approved by FERC as RTOs, and CAISO and ISO-NY have been approved as ISOs. These entities are responsible for regional planning, managing transmission congestion,
developing wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability, market monitoring, the scheduling of physical power sales brokered through ICE and NYMEX and the elimination or reduction of redundant transmission charges imposed by
multiple transmission providers when wholesale customers take transmission service across several transmission systems.



Merger with Constellation Energy Group, Inc.



On March 12, 2012, Constellation merged into Exelon with Exelon continuing as the surviving corporation pursuant to the transactions
contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger. Since the merger transaction, Generation includes the former Constellation generation and customer supply operations. See Note 4—Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Combined Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Constellation merger.



Constellation Energy Nuclear Group, Inc.



Generation owns a 50.01% interest in CENG, a joint venture with EDF. CENG is governed by a board of ten directors, five of which are appointed by Generation and five by EDF. CENG owns a total of five nuclear
generating facilities on three sites, Calvert Cliffs, R.E. Ginna and Nine Mile Point. CENG’s ownership share in the total capacity of these units is 3,998 MW. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES for additional information on these sites.



Prior to April 1, 2014, Exelon and Generation accounted for their
investment in CENG under the equity method of accounting. The transfer of the nuclear operating licenses and the execution of the NOSA on April 1, 2014, resulted in the derecognition of the equity method investment in CENG and the recording of
all assets, liabilities and EDF’s noncontrolling interest in CENG at fair value on Exelon’s and Generation’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Refer to Note 5—Investment in Constellation Energy Nuclear Group, LLC of the Combined Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the integration transaction.



Significant Acquisitions



Integrys Energy Services, Inc.On November 1, 2014, Generation acquired the competitive retail electric and natural gas business activities of Integrys Energy Group, Inc. through the purchase of
all of the stock of its wholly owned subsidiary, Integrys Energy Services, Inc. (Integrys) for a purchase price of $332 million, including net working capital. The generation and solar asset businesses of Integrys are excluded from the transaction.
See Note 4—Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the above acquisition.







Antelope Valley Solar Ranch One.On September 30, 2011, Exelon announced the
completion of its acquisition of all of the interests in Antelope Valley, a 242-MW solar project under development in northern Los Angeles County, California, from First Solar, Inc. The facility became fully operational in 2014. The project has a
25-year PPA with Pacific Gas & Electric Company for the full output of the plant, which has been approved by the CPUC. Total capitalized costs for the facility incurred as of December 31, 2014 were approximately $1.1 billion.



Wolf Hollow Generating Station.On
August 24, 2011, Generation completed the acquisition of all of the equity interests of Wolf Hollow, LLC (Wolf Hollow), a combined-cycle natural gas-fired power plant in north Texas, for a purchase price of $311 million which increased
Generation’s owned capacity within the ERCOT power market by 704 MWs.



Significant Dispositions



Asset Divestitures.As of December 31, 2014, Generation sold or entered into agreements to divest certain generating assets with
total expected pre-tax proceeds of $1.8 billion (after-tax proceeds of approximately $1.4 billion). The proceeds are expected to be used primarily to finance a portion of the acquisition of PHI.



Maryland Clean Coal Stations.On November 30, 2012,
a subsidiary of Generation sold the Brandon Shores generating station and H.A. Wagner generating station in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, and the C.P. Crane generating station in Baltimore County, Maryland to Raven Power Holdings LLC, a subsidiary
of Riverstone Holdings LLC to comply with certain of the regulatory approvals required by the merger with Constellation Energy Group, Inc. for net proceeds of approximately $371 million, which resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of $272 million.



See Note 4—Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions and
Note 8—Impairment of Long-Lived Assets of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Generating Resources



At December 31, 2014, the generating resources of Generation consisted of the following:



Type of CapacityMWOwned generation
assets(a)(b)Nuclear19,316Fossil(c)9,515Renewable(d)3,434Owned generation assets32,265Long-term power purchase contracts9,574Total generating resources41,839



(a)See “Fuel” for sources of fuels used in electric generation.

(b)Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Generation for additional information.

(c)Comprised primarily of natural gas generating assets. Excludes Quail Run, which was sold on January 21, 2015.

(d)Includes hydroelectric, wind, and solar generating assets.



Generation has six reportable segments, the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, New England, New York, ERCOT and Other Regions, representing the different
geographical areas in which Generation’s customer-facing activities are conducted and where Generation’s generating resources are located.



•Mid-Atlantic represents operations in the eastern half of PJM, which includes Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware, the District
of Columbia and parts of North Carolina (approximately 35% of capacity).







•Midwest represents operations in the western half of PJM, which includes portions of Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky and Tennessee; and the United
States footprint of MISO (excluding MISO’s Southern Region), which covers all or most of North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin, and the remaining parts of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio not covered by PJM; and
parts of Montana, Missouri and Kentucky (approximately 38% of capacity).



•New England represents the operations within ISO-NE covering the states of Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont
(approximately 7% of capacity).



•New York represents the operations within ISO-NY, which covers the state of New York in its entirety (approximately 3% of capacity).



•ERCOT represents operations within Electric Reliability Council of Texas, covering most of the state of Texas (approximately 11% of capacity).



•Other Regions is an aggregate of regions not considered individually significant (approximately 6% of capacity).



See Note 24—Segment Information of the Combined Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on revenues from external customers and revenues net of purchased power and fuel expense for each of Generation’s reportable segments.



Nuclear Facilities



Generation has ownership interests in fourteen nuclear generating
stations currently in service, consisting of 24 units with an aggregate of 19,316 MW of capacity. Generation wholly owns all of its nuclear generating stations, except for Quad Cities Generating Station (75% ownership), Peach Bottom Generating
Station (50% ownership), and Salem Generating Station (Salem) (42.59% ownership), which are consolidated on Exelon’s and Generation’s financial statements relative to its proportionate ownership interest in each unit. In addition,
Generation owns a 50.01% interest, collectively, in the CENG generating stations (Calvert Cliff Nuclear Power Plant, Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station [excluding LIPA’s 18% ownership interest in Nine Mile Point Unit 2] and R.E. Ginna) which are
100% consolidated on Exelon and Generation’s financial statements as of April 1, 2014. See Note 5—Investment in Constellation Energy Nuclear Group, LLC of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information.



Generation’s nuclear generating stations
are all operated by Generation, with the exception of the two units at Salem, which are operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC (PSEG Nuclear), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of PSEG. In 2014, 2013, and 2012 electric supply (in GWh) generated from the
nuclear generating facilities was 67%, 57% and 53%, respectively, of Generation’s total electric supply, which also includes fossil, hydroelectric and renewable generation and electric supply purchased for resale. The majority of this output
was dispatched to support Generation’s wholesale and retail power marketing activities. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for further discussion of Generation’s
electric supply sources.



Nuclear Operations.Capacity factors, which are significantly affected by the number and duration of refueling and non-refueling outages, can have a significant impact on Generation’s results of operations. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United
States, Generation can negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services that its business requires. Generation’s operations from its nuclear plants have historically had minimal environmental impact and the plants have a safe operating
history.







During 2014 and 2013, the nuclear generating facilities operated by Generation achieved capacity
factors of 94.3% and 94.1%, respectively. The capacity factors reflect ownership percentage of stations operated by Generation and include CENG as of April 1, 2014. Generation manages its scheduled refueling outages to minimize their duration
and to maintain high nuclear generating capacity factors, resulting in a stable generation base for Generation’s wholesale and retail marketing and trading activities. During scheduled refueling outages, Generation performs maintenance and
equipment upgrades in order to minimize the occurrence of unplanned outages and to maintain safe, reliable operations.



In addition to the rigorous maintenance and equipment upgrades performed by Generation during scheduled refueling outages, Generation has extensive
operating and security procedures in place to ensure the safe operation of the nuclear units. Generation has extensive safety systems in place to protect the plant, personnel and surrounding area in the unlikely event of an accident.



Regulation of Nuclear Power Generation.Generation is
subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC with respect to the operation of its nuclear generating stations, including the licensing for operation of each unit. The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations to continuing review and regulation covering,
among other things, operations, maintenance, emergency planning, security and environmental and radiological aspects of those stations. As part of its reactor oversight process, the NRC continuously assesses unit performance indicators and
inspection results, and communicates its assessment on a semi-annual basis. As of December 31, 2014, the NRC categorized Calvert Cliffs unit 2, Clinton, Limerick units 1 and 2, and Oyster Creek in the Regulatory Response Column, which is the
second highest of five performance bands. All other units operated by Generation are categorized in the Licensee Response Column as of December 31, 2014, which is the highest performance band. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke operating
licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under such Act or the terms of the operating licenses. Changes in regulations by the NRC may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures
for nuclear generating facilities and/or increased operating costs of nuclear generating units.



On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a 9.0 magnitude earthquake and ensuing tsunami that seriously damaged the nuclear units at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which are operated by Tokyo Electric
Power Co. In July 2011, an NRC Task Force formed in the aftermath of the Fukushima Daiichi events issued a report of its review of the accident, including recommendations for future regulatory action by the NRC to be taken in the near and longer
term. The Task Force’s report concluded that nuclear reactors in the United States are operating safely and do not present an imminent risk to public health and safety. The NRC and its staff have issued orders and implementation guidance for
commercial reactor licensees operating in the United States. The NRC and its staff are continuing to evaluate additional requirements. For additional information on the NRC actions related to the Japan Earthquake and Tsunami and the industry’s
response, see ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—Executive Overview.







Licenses.Generation has 40-year operating licenses from the NRC
for each of its nuclear units and has received 20-year operating license renewals for Peach Bottom Units 2 and 3, Dresden Units 2 and 3, Quad Cities Units 1 and 2, Oyster Creek Unit 1, Calvert Cliffs Units 1 and 2, Nine Mile Point Units 1 and 2,
R.E. Ginna Unit 1, Three Mile Island Unit 1 and Limerick Units 1 and 2. Additionally, PSEG has 40-year operating licenses from the NRC and has received 20-year operating license renewals for Salem Units 1 and 2. On December 8, 2010, Exelon
announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019. The following table summarizes the current operating license expiration dates for Generation’s nuclear facilities in service:



StationUnitIn-ServiceDate(a)Current LicenseExpirationBraidwood(b)119882026219882027Byron(b)119852024219872026Calvert Cliffs(c)119752034219772036Clinton119872026Dresden(c)219702029319712031LaSalle(d)119842022219842023Limerick(c)119862044219902049Nine Mile Point(c)119692029219882046Oyster Creek(c)(e)119692029Peach Bottom(c)219742033319742034Quad Cities(c)119732032219732032R.E. Ginna(c)119702029Salem(c)119772036219812040Three Mile Island(c)119742034



(a)Denotes year in which nuclear unit began commercial operations.

(b)In May 2013, Generation submitted applications to the NRC to extend the operating licenses of Braidwood Units 1 and 2 and Byron Units 1 and 2 by 20 years.

(c)Stations for which the NRC has issued renewed operating licenses.

(d)In December 2014, Generation submitted applications to the NRC to extend the operating licenses of LaSalle Units 1 and 2 by 20 years.

(e)In December 2010, Exelon announced that Generation will permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019.



Generation currently has license renewal applications pending for
Braidwood Units 1 and 2, Byron Units 1 and 2, and LaSalle Units 1 and 2. Generation has advised the NRC that any license renewal application for Clinton would not be filed until the first quarter of 2021. The operating license renewal process takes
approximately four to five years from the commencement of the renewal process until completion of the NRC’s review. The NRC review process takes approximately two years from the docketing of an application. Each requested license renewal is
expected to be for 20 years beyond the original operating license expiration. Depreciation provisions are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which reflect the actual and assumed renewal of operating licenses for all of
Generation’s operating nuclear generating stations except for Oyster Creek.







In August 2012, Generation entered into an operating services agreement with the Omaha Public Power
District (OPPD) to provide operational and managerial support services for the Fort Calhoun Station and a licensing agreement for use of the Exelon Nuclear Management Model. The terms for both agreements are 20 years. OPPD will continue to
own the plant and remain the NRC licensee.



Nuclear
Uprate Program.Generation is engaged in individual projects as part of a planned power uprate program across its nuclear fleet. When economically viable, the projects take advantage of new production and measurement technologies, new
materials and application of expertise gained from a half-century of nuclear power operations. Based on ongoing reviews, the nuclear uprate implementation plan was adjusted during 2013 to cancel certain projects. The Measurement Uncertainty
Recapture uprate projects at the Dresden and Quad Cities nuclear stations were cancelled as a result of the cost of additional plant modifications identified during final design work which, when combined with then current market conditions, made the
projects not economically viable. Additionally, the market conditions prompted Generation to cancel the previously deferred extended power uprate projects at the LaSalle and Limerick nuclear stations. During 2013, Generation recorded a pre-tax
charge to operating and maintenance expense and interest expense of approximately $111 million and $8 million, respectively, to accrue remaining costs and reverse the previously capitalized costs.



Under the nuclear uprate program, Generation has placed into service
projects representing 393 MWs of new nuclear generation at a cost of $1,193 million, which has been capitalized to property, plant and equipment on Exelon’s and Generation’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2014,
Generation has capitalized $122 million to construction work in progress within property, plant and equipment for nuclear uprate projects expected to be placed in service by the end of 2016, consisting of 139 MWs of new nuclear generation that is in
the installation phase at one nuclear station, Peach Bottom in Pennsylvania. The remaining spend associated with this project is expected to be approximately $125 million through the end of 2016. Generation believes that it is probable that this
project will be completed. If a project is expected not to be completed as planned, previously capitalized costs will be reversed through earnings as a charge to operating and maintenance expense and interest.



Nuclear Waste Disposal.There are no facilities for the
reprocessing or permanent disposal of SNF currently in operation in the United States, nor has the NRC licensed any such facilities. Generation currently stores all SNF generated by its nuclear generating facilities in on-site storage pools or in
dry cask storage facilities. Since Generation’s SNF storage pools generally do not have sufficient storage capacity for the life of the respective plant, Generation has developed dry cask storage facilities to support operations.



As of December 31, 2014, Generation had approximately 73,800 SNF
assemblies (18,300 tons) stored on site in SNF pools or dry cask storage (this includes SNF assemblies at Zion Station, for which Generation retains ownership even though the responsibility for decommissioning Zion Station has been assumed by
another party; see Note 15—Asset Retirement Obligations of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Zion Station Decommissioning). All currently operating Generation-owned nuclear sites have
on-site dry cask storage, except for Clinton and Three Mile Island. Clinton and Three Mile Island are anticipated to lose full core reserve, which is when the on-site storage pool will no longer have sufficient space to receive a full complement of
fuel from the reactor core, in 2015 and 2023, respectively. Dry cask storage will be in operation at Clinton and is expected to be in operation at Three Mile Island prior to losing full core offload capability in their respective on-site storage
pools. On-site dry cask storage in concert with on-site storage pools will be capable of meeting all current and future SNF storage requirements at Generation’s sites through the end of the license renewal periods and through decommissioning.



For a discussion of matters associated with
Generation’s contracts with the DOE for the disposal of SNF, see Note 22—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.







As a by-product of their operations, nuclear generating units produce LLRW. LLRW is accumulated at
each generating station and permanently disposed of at licensed disposal facilities. The Federal Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980 provides that states may enter into agreements to provide regional disposal facilities for LLRW and
restrict use of those facilities to waste generated within the region. Illinois and Kentucky have entered into such an agreement, although neither state currently has an operational site and none is anticipated to be operational until after 2020.



Generation ships its Class A LLRW, which represents
93% of LLRW generated at its stations, to disposal facilities in Utah and South Carolina. The disposal facility in South Carolina at present is only receiving LLRW from LLRW generators in South Carolina, New Jersey (which includes Oyster Creek and
Salem), and Connecticut.



Generation utilizes on-site
storage capacity at its Peach Bottom and LaSalle stations to store Class B and Class C LLRW for all stations in Generation’s nuclear fleet, as approved by the NRC. Generation has a contract through 2032 to ship Class B and Class C LLRW to
a disposal facility in Texas. The agreement provides for disposal of all current Class B and Class C LLRW currently stored at the Peach Bottom and LaSalle stations as well as the Class B and Class C LLRW generated during the term of the
agreement. However, because the production of LLRW from Generation’s nuclear fleet will exceed the capacity at the Texas site (3.9 million curies for 15 years beginning in 2012), Generation will still be required to utilize on-site storage
at its Peach Bottom and LaSalle stations for Class B and Class C LLRW. Generation currently has enough storage capacity to store all Class B and C LLRW for the life of all stations in Generation’s nuclear fleet. Generation continues to pursue
alternative disposal strategies for LLRW, including an LLRW reduction program to minimize cost impacts and on-site storage.



Nuclear Insurance.Generation is subject to liability, property damage and other risks associated with major incidents at any of its
nuclear stations, including the CENG nuclear stations. Generation has reduced its financial exposure to these risks through insurance and other industry risk-sharing provisions. See “Nuclear Insurance” within Note 22—Commitments and
Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details.



For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Generation. Generation is self-insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained or are within the
policy deductible for its insured losses. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon’s and Generation’s financial condition and results of operations.



Decommissioning.NRC regulations require that licensees
of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—Exelon Corporation, Executive Overview; ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates, Nuclear Decommissioning, Asset Retirement Obligations and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments; and Note 3—Regulatory Matters, Note 11—Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities and Note 15—Asset Retirement
Obligations of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Generation’s NDT funds and its decommissioning obligations.



Dresden Unit 1 and Peach Bottom Unit 1 have ceased power generation.
SNF at Dresden Unit 1 is currently being stored in dry cask storage until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. All SNF for Peach Bottom Unit 1, which ceased operation in 1974, has been removed from the site and the SNF pool is drained
and decontaminated. Generation’s estimated ARO liabilities to







decommission Dresden Unit 1 and Peach Bottom Unit 1 as of December 31, 2014 were $188 million and $111 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2014, NDT funds set aside to pay for
these obligations were $459 million.



Zion Station
Decommissioning.On December 11, 2007, Generation entered into an Asset Sale Agreement (ASA) with EnergySolutions, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, EnergySolutions, LLC (EnergySolutions) and ZionSolutions, LLC (ZionSolutions) under
which ZionSolutions assumed responsibility for decommissioning Zion Station, which is located in Zion, Illinois and ceased operation in 1998.



On September 1, 2010, Generation and EnergySolutions completed the transactions contemplated by the ASA. Specifically, Generation transferred
to ZionSolutions substantially all of the assets (other than land) associated with Zion Station, including assets held in related NDT funds. In consideration for Generation’s transfer of those assets, ZionSolutions assumed decommissioning and
other liabilities, excluding the obligation to dispose of SNF, associated with Zion Station. Pursuant to the ASA, ZionSolutions will periodically request reimbursement from the Zion Station-related NDT funds for costs incurred related to the
decommissioning efforts at Zion Station. However, ZionSolutions is subject to certain restrictions on its ability to request reimbursement; specifically, if certain milestones as defined in the ASA are not met, all or a portion of requested
reimbursements shall be deferred until such milestones are met. See Note 15—Asset Retirement Obligations of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Zion Station Decommissioning and see Note
2—Variable Interest Entities of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of variable interest entity considerations related to ZionSolutions.



Fossil and Renewable Facilities (including Hydroelectric)





Licenses.Fossil and renewable generation plants are
generally not licensed, and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non-Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways or Federal lands, or
connected to the interstate electric grid. On August 29, 2012 and August 30, 2012, Generation submitted hydroelectric license applications to the FERC for 46-year licenses for the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project (Conowingo) and the Muddy
Run Pumped Storage Facility Project (Muddy Run), respectively. Based on the FERC procedural schedule, the FERC licensing process was not completed prior to the expiration of Muddy Run’s license on August 31, 2014, and the expiration of
Conowingo’s license on September 1, 2014. FERC is required to issue annual licenses for the facilities







until the new licenses are issued. On September 10, 2014, FERC issued annual licenses for Conowingo and Muddy Run, effective as of the expiration of the previous licenses. If FERC does not
issue new licenses prior to the expiration of annual licenses, the annual licenses will renew automatically. The stations are currently being depreciated over their estimated useful lives, which includes the license renewal period. Refer to Note
3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Insurance.Generation maintains business interruption insurance for its renewable projects, and delay in start-up insurance for its
renewable projects currently under construction. Generation does not purchase business interruption insurance for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric operations, unless required by financing agreements. Generation maintains both property
damage and liability insurance. For property damage and liability claims for these operations, Generation is self-insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have
a material adverse effect on Exelon’s and Generation’s financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Exelon Generation Company, LLC.



Long-Term Power Purchase Contracts



In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation
sources electricity and other related output from plants it does not own under long-term contracts. The following tables summarize Generation’s long-term contracts to purchase unit-specific physical power with an original term in excess of one
year in duration, by region, in effect as of December 31, 2014:



RegionNumber ofAgreementsExpiration DatesCapacity (MW)Mid-Atlantic192015 - 2032860Midwest72015 - 20221,734New England152015 - 20201,401ERCOT52020 - 20311,534Other Regions152015 - 20304,045Total619,574



20152016201720182019Capacity Expiring (MW)2,726731,965101631



Fuel



The following table shows sources of electric supply in GWh for 2014
and 2013:



Source of Electric Supply20142013Nuclear(a)166,454142,126Purchases—non-trading portfolio(b)48,20069,791Fossil (primarily natural gas)26,32430,785Renewable(c)6,4296,420Total supply247,407249,122



(a)Includes the proportionate share of output where Generation has an undivided ownership interest in jointly-owned generating plants and includes the total output of plants that
are fully consolidated (e.g., CENG). Nuclear generation for 2014 and 2013 includes physical volumes of 25,053 GWh and 0 GWh, respectively, for CENG.

(b)Purchased power for 2014 and 2013 includes physical volumes of 5,346 GWh and 24,232 GWh, respectively, as a result of the PPA with CENG. On April 1, 2014, Generation
assumed operational control of CENG’s nuclear fleet. As a result, 100% of CENG volumes are included in nuclear generation.

(c)Includes hydroelectric, wind, and solar generating assets.







The fuel costs per MWh for nuclear generation are less than those for fossil-fuel generation.
Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost-effective way for Generation to meet its wholesale and retail load servicing requirements.



The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of
uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate
requirements through 2016. Generation’s contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2015. All of Generation’s enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2020. Contracts
for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2018. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment or fabrication services to meet the nuclear fuel requirements of its nuclear
units.



Natural gas is procured through long-term and
short-term contracts, as well as spot-market purchases. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take
advantage of favorable market pricing.



Generation uses
financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk, using both over-the-counter and exchange-traded instruments. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS, ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 12—Derivative Financial Instruments of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding derivative financial instruments.



Power Marketing





Generation’s purchases may be for more than the energy demanded by Generation’s customers. Generation then sells this open position, along with capacity not used to meet customer demand, in the wholesale
electricity markets. Where necessary, Generation also purchases transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet







customer delivery needs in markets without an organized RTO. Generation also incorporates contingencies into its planning for extreme weather conditions, including potentially reserving capacity
to meet summer loads at levels representative of warmer-than-normal weather conditions. Additionally, Generation is involved in the development, exploration, and harvesting of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids properties (Upstream).



Price Supply Risk Management





At December 31, 2014, Generation’s short and long-term commitments relating to the purchase of energy and capacity from and to
unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows:



(in millions)Net CapacityPurchases(a)RECPurchases(b)Transmission RightsPurchases(c)Total2015$418$152$20$590201628322815526201722212115358201811229161572019117516138Thereafter279135315Total$1,431$536$117$2,084



(a)Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts including those that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent
Generation’s expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2014, net of fixed capacity payments expected to be received (“Capacity offsets”) by Generation under contracts to resell such acquired capacity to third
parties under long-term capacity sale contracts. As of December 31, 2014, capacity offsets were $132 million, $133 million, $136 million, $137 million,$138 million, and $591 million for years 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, and thereafter,
respectively. Expected payments include certain fixed capacity charges which may be reduced based on plant availability.







(b)The table excludes renewable energy purchases that are contingent in nature.

(c)Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts.



Capital Expenditures



Generation’s business is capital intensive and requires
significant investments in nuclear fuel and energy generation assets and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generation’s estimated capital expenditures for 2015 are as follows:



(in millions)Nuclear fuel(a)$1,250Production plant1,800Renewable energy projects225Maryland commitments225Other125Total$3,625



(a)Includes Generation’s share of the investment in nuclear fuel for the co-owned Salem plant.



ComEd



ComEd is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity distribution and transmission
services to a diverse base of residential, commercial and industrial customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is a public utility under the Illinois Public Utilities Act subject to regulation by the ICC related to distribution rates and service, the
issuance of securities, and certain other aspects of ComEd’s business. ComEd is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEd’s business.
Specific operations of ComEd are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, ComEd is subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards.



ComEd’s retail service territory has an area of approximately
11,400 square miles and an estimated population of 9 million. The service territory includes the City of Chicago, an area of about 225 square miles with an estimated population of 2.7 million. ComEd has approximately 3.8 million customers.



ComEd’s franchises are sufficient to permit it to
engage in the business it now conducts. ComEd’s franchise rights are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience issued by the ICC. With few exceptions, the franchise rights have
stated expiration dates ranging from 2015 to 2066. ComEd anticipates working with the appropriate governmental bodies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration.



ComEd’s kWh deliveries and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when
temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. ComEd’s highest peak load occurred on July 20, 2011, and was 23,753 MWs; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on January 6, 2014, and was
16,515 MWs.



Retail Electric Services



Electric revenues and purchased power expense are affected by
fluctuations in customers’ purchases from competitive electric generation suppliers. All ComEd customers have the ability to purchase electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. The number of retail customers







participating in customer choice programs was 2,426,921, 2,630,185 and 1,627,150 at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, representing 63.0%, 68% and 43% of total retail customers,
respectively. Retail energy purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented 80%, 81% and 65% of ComEd’s retail kWh sales for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.



The customers’ choice activity affects revenue collected from
customers related to supplied energy; however, that activity has no impact on electric revenue net of purchased power expense or ComEd’s financial position. ComEd’s cost of electric supply is passed without markup directly through to those
customers not served by a competitive electric generation supplier and those rates are subject to adjustment monthly to recover or refund the difference between ComEd’s actual cost of electricity delivered and the amount included in rates. For
those customers that choose a competitive electric generation supplier, ComEd acts as the billing agent but does not record revenues or expenses related to the electric supply. ComEd remains the distribution service provider for all customers in its
service territory and charges a regulated rate for distribution service.



See Note 24—Segment Information of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on revenues from external customers, net income and total assets.



Under Illinois law, ComEd is required to deliver electricity to all
customers within ComEd’s service territory. ComEd’s obligation to provide generation supply service, which is referred to as a POLR obligation, primarily varies by customer size. ComEd’s obligation to provide such service to
residential customers and other small customers with demands of under 100 kWs continues for all customers who do not choose a competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to ComEd after taking service from a competitive electric
generation supplier. ComEd does not have a fixed-price generation supply service obligation to most of its largest customers with demands of 100 kWs or greater, as this group of customers has previously been declared competitive. Customers with
competitive declarations may still purchase power and energy from ComEd, but only at hourly market prices.



Energy Infrastructure Modernization Act (EIMA).Since 2011, ComEd’s distribution rates are established through a performance-based rate
formula pursuant to EIMA. EIMA also provides a structure for substantial capital investment by utilities over a ten-year period to modernize Illinois’ electric utility infrastructure. In addition, as long as ComEd is subject to EIMA, ComEd will
fund customer assistance programs for low-income customers, which amounts will not be recoverable through rates.



EIMA is scheduled to sunset, ending ComEd’s performance based rate formula and investment commitment, at December 31, 2017, unless
approved to continue through 2022 by the Illinois General Assembly. During the fourth quarter of 2014, the Illinois House and Senate each passed House Bill 3975 which extends the date of the EIMA sunset from 2017 to 2019. The bill was presented to
the Governor on February 11, 2015. The Governor can either act on the bill or, after 60 days, the bill will automatically become law.



ComEd files an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement in effect in a given year to reflect the actual costs that the ICC determines are
prudently and reasonably incurred for such year. ComEd’s allowed rate of return on common equity is the annual average rate on 30-year treasury notes plus 580 basis points, subject to a (collar) of plus or minus 50 basis points. The
collar, therefore limits favorable and unfavorable impacts of weather and load on distribution revenue. In addition, ComEd’s allowed rate of return on common equity is subject to reduction if ComEd does not deliver the reliability and
customer service benefits, as defined, it has committed to over the ten-year life of the investment program. See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.







Procurement-Related Proceedings.ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement
costs from retail customers without mark-up. Since June 2009, the IPA designs, and the ICC approves, an electricity supply portfolio for ComEd and the IPA administers a competitive process under which ComEd procures its electricity supply from
various suppliers, including Generation. Charges incurred for electric supply procured through contracts with Generation are included in Purchased power from affiliates on ComEd’s Statement of operations and Comprehensive Income.



See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEd’s procurement plans.



Continuous Power Interruption.The Illinois Public Utilities Act provides that in the event an electric utility, such as ComEd, experiences a
continuous power interruption of four hours or more that affects (in ComEd’s case) more than 30,000 customers, the utility may be liable for actual damages suffered by customers as a result of the interruption and may be responsible for
reimbursement of local governmental emergency and contingency expenses incurred in connection with the interruption. Recovery of consequential damages is barred. The affected utility may seek from the ICC a waiver of these liabilities when the
utility can show that the cause of the interruption was unpreventable damage due to weather events or conditions, customer tampering, or certain other causes enumerated in the law. See Note 22—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Smart Meter, Smart Grid and Energy Efficiency



Smart Meter and Smart Grid Programs.On January 6, 2012, ComEd filed its Infrastructure Investment Plan with the ICC. Under that plan,
ComEd will invest approximately $2.6 billion over ten years to modernize and storm-harden its distribution system and to implement smart grid technology. On June 11, 2014, the ICC approved ComEd’s request to accelerate the deployment,
which allows for the installation of more than four million smart meters throughout ComEd’s service territory by 2018, three years in advance of the originally scheduled 2021 completion date. To date, nearly 550,000 smart meters have been
installed in the Chicago area by ComEd.



Energy
Efficiency Programs.Electric utilities in Illinois are required to include cost-effective energy efficiency resources in their plans to meet an incremental annual program energy savings requirement of 0.2% of energy delivered to retail
customers for the year ended June 1, 2009, which increases annually to 2.0% of energy delivered in the year commencing June 1, 2015 and each year thereafter. Additionally, during the ten-year period that began June 1, 2008, electric
utilities must implement cost-effective demand response measures to reduce peak demand by 0.1% over the prior year for eligible retail customers. The energy efficiency and demand response goals are subject to rate impact caps each year. Utilities
are allowed recovery of costs for energy efficiency and demand response programs, subject to approval by the ICC. In January 2014, the ICC approved ComEd’s third three-year Energy Efficiency and Demand Response Plan covering the period June
2014 through May 2017. The plans are designed to meet Illinois’ energy efficiency and demand response goals through May 2017, including reductions in delivered energy to all retail customers and in the peak demand of eligible retail customers.



EIMA provides for additional energy efficiency in
Illinois. Starting in the June 2013 through May 2014 period and occurring annually thereafter, as part of the IPA procurement plan, ComEd is to include cost-effective expansion of current energy efficiency programs, and additional new
cost-effective and/or third-party energy efficiency programs that are identified through a request for proposal process. All cost-effective energy efficiency programs are included in the IPA procurement plan for consideration of
implementation. While these programs are monitored separately from the Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard (EEPS), funds for both the EEPS portfolio and IPA energy efficiency programs are collected under the same rider.







Construction Budget



ComEd’s business is capital intensive and requires significant
investments, primarily in electricity transmission and electricity distribution facilities, to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. Such investments include capital program and modernization pursuant to EIMA, and
transmission upgrades and expansion including the Grand Prairie Gateway Transmission Line project, and PJM’s RTEP. ComEd’s most recent estimate of capital expenditures for electric plant additions and improvements for 2015 is $2,200
million.



See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information.



PECO



PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale
of electricity and the provision of electricity transmission and distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the
provision of gas distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is a public utility under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Code subject to regulation by the PAPUC as to electric and
gas distribution rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of PECO’s operations. PECO is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain
other aspects of PECO’s business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation as to pipeline safety and other areas of gas operations. Specific operations of PECO are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and
local agencies. Additionally, PECO is also subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards.



PECO’s combined electric and natural gas retail service territory has an area of approximately 2,100 square miles and an estimated population of 4.0 million. PECO provides electric distribution service in an
area of approximately 1,900 square miles, with a population of approximately 4.0 million, including approximately 1.6 million in the City of Philadelphia. PECO provides natural gas distribution service in an area of approximately 1,900
square miles in southeastern Pennsylvania adjacent to the City of Philadelphia, with a population of approximately 2.4 million. PECO delivers electricity to approximately 1.6 million customers and natural gas to approximately 506,000 customers.



PECO has the necessary authorizations to provide regulated
electric and natural gas distribution service in the various municipalities or territories in which it now supplies such services. PECO’s authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and/or
“grandfathered rights,” with all of such rights generally unlimited as to time and generally exclusive from competition from other electric and natural gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECO’s natural gas service
territory authorizations overlap with that of another natural gas utility; however, PECO does not consider those situations as posing a material competitive or financial threat.



PECO’s kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher
during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. PECO’s highest peak load occurred on July 22, 2011 and was 8,983 MW; its highest peak load during winter months
occurred on January 7, 2014 and was 7,166 MW.



PECO’s natural gas sales are generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. PECO’s
highest daily natural gas send out occurred on January 7, 2014 and was 760 mmcf.







Retail Electric Services



PECO’s retail electric sales and distribution service revenues
are derived pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. Pennsylvania permits competition by competitive electric generation suppliers for the supply of retail electricity while retail transmission and distribution service remains regulated under the
Competition Act. At December 31, 2014, there were 101 competitive electric generation suppliers serving PECO customers. At December 31, 2014, the number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier
was 546,900 representing approximately 34% of total retail customers. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented approximately 70% of PECO’s retail kWh sales for the year ended December 31, 2014.
Customers that choose a competitive electric generation supplier are not subject to rates for PECO’s electric supply procurement costs and retail transmission service charges. PECO presents on customer bills its electric supply Price to
Compare, which is updated quarterly, to assist customers with the evaluation of offers from competitive electric generation suppliers.



Customer choice program activity affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy; however, that activity has no impact on
PECO’s electric revenue net of purchased power expense or financial position. PECO’s cost of electric supply is passed directly through to default service customers without markup and those rates are subject to adjustment at least
quarterly to recover or refund the difference between PECO’s actual cost of electricity delivered and the amount included in rates through the GSA. For those customers that choose a competitive electric generation supplier, PECO acts as the
billing agent but does not record revenue or purchased power expense related to this electric supply. PECO remains the distribution service provider for all customers in its service territory and charges a regulated rate for distribution service.



See Note 24—Segment Information of the Combined Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on revenues from external customers, net income and total assets.



Procurement-Related Proceedings.PECO’s electric supply for its customers is procured through contracts executed in accordance with its
PAPUC-approved DSP Programs.



On October 12, 2012, the
PAPUC approved PECO’s second DSP Program, which was filed with the PAPUC in January 2012. The plan outlined how PECO purchased electric supply for default service customers from June 1, 2013 through May 31, 2015. Pursuant to the
second DSP Program, PECO procured electric supply through five competitive procurements for fixed price full requirements contracts of two years or less for the residential and small and medium commercial classes and spot market price full
requirement contracts for the large commercial and industrial class load. PECO entered into contracts with PAPUC approved bidders, including Generation, for its five competitive procurements. Charges incurred for electric supply procured through
contracts with Generation are included in Purchased power from affiliates on PECO’s Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income.



The second DSP Program also includes a number of retail market enhancements recommended by the PAPUC in its previously issued Retail Markets
Intermediate Work Plan Order. PECO was also directed to allow its low-income Customer Assistance Program (CAP) customers to purchase their generation supply from competitive electric generation suppliers beginning April 1, 2014. On May 1,
2013, PECO filed a Petition for Approval of its CAP Shopping Plan with the PAPUC. By Order entered on January 24, 2014, the PAPUC approved PECO’s plan, with modifications, to make CAP shopping available beginning April 15, 2014. On
March 20, 2014, low-income advocacy groups filed an appeal and emergency request for a stay with the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court, claiming that the PAPUC-ordered CAP Shopping plan does not contain sufficient protections for low-income
customers. On March 28, 2014, the Commonwealth Court issued the requested stay, pending a full review of the appeal. Pending the Commonwealth Court’s review, PECO will not implement CAP Shopping. The Commonwealth Court’s decision is
expected in 2015.







On March 10, 2014, PECO filed its third DSP Program with the PAPUC. The program has a 24-month
term from June 1, 2015 through May 31, 2017, and complies with electric generation procurement guidelines set forth in Act 129. On August 28, 2014, PECO filed a Joint Petition for Partial Settlement, which affirmed PECO’s
procurement plan for residential and small commercial customers. On December 4, 2014, the PAPUC approved PECO’s third DSP Program, as modified by the Joint Petition for Partial Settlement, without modification or limitation. Separate
from the Joint Petition for Partial Settlement, the PAPUC also approved other items related to the program. The plan outlines how PECO will purchase electric supply for default service customers. PECO will procure electric supply through four
competitive procurements for fixed price full requirements contracts of two years or less for the residential classes and small and medium commercial classes and spot market price full requirement contracts for the large commercial and industrial
class load.



See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the
Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Smart Meter, Smart Grid and Energy Efficiency Programs



Smart Meter and Smart Grid Programs.In April 2010, the PAPUC approved PECO’s Smart Meter Procurement and Installation Plan, which was
filed in accordance with the requirements of Act 129. Also, in April 2010, PECO entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. Under the SGIG, PECO was awarded $200 million, the maximum grant
allowable under the program, for its SGIG project—Smart Future Greater Philadelphia. As of December 31, 2014, PECO has received all of the $200 million, including $4 million for sub-recipients, in reimbursements. The SGIG funds have been
used by PECO to offset the total impact to ratepayers of the smart meter deployment required by Act 129. On May 31, 2013, PECO and interested parties filed a Joint Petition for Settlement of the universal deployment plan with the PAPUC, which
was approved without modification on August 15, 2013. Under PECO’s universal deployment plan, PECO will deploy all of the 1.7 million electric smart meters on an accelerated basis by the second quarter of 2015. In total, PECO
currently expects to spend up to $583 million and $155 million on its smart meter and smart grid infrastructure, respectively, before considering the $200 million SGIG funds. As of December 31, 2014, PECO has spent $540 million and $119 million
on smart meter and smart grid infrastructure, respectively, not including the DOE reimbursements received.



See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Energy Efficiency Programs.PECO’s PAPUC-approved Phase I
EE&C plan had a four-year term that began on June 1, 2009 and concluded on May 31, 2013. The Phase I Plan set forth how PECO would meet the required reduction targets established by Act 129’s EE&C provisions, which included a
3.0% reduction in electric consumption in PECO’s service territory and a 4.5% reduction in PECO’s annual system peak demand in the 100 hours of highest demand by May 31, 2013. On March 20, 2014, the PAPUC issued its final report
stating that PECO was in full compliance with all Phase I targets.



The PAPUC issued its Phase II EE&C implementation order on August 2, 2012, that provides energy consumption reduction requirements for the second phase of Act 129’s EE&C programs, which went into
effect on June 1, 2013 with a three-year cumulative consumption reduction target of 1,125,852 MWh.



On November 14, 2013, the PAPUC issued a Tentative Order on Act 129 demand reduction programs which seeks comments on a proposed demand
response program methodology for future Act 129 demand reduction programs as well as demand response potential and wholesale prices suppression studies. In its February 20, 2014 Final Order, the PAPUC stated that it does not expect to







make a decision as to whether it will prescribe additional demand response obligations until 2015. Any decision reached would affect PECO’s EE&C Plan subsequent to its Phase II Plan.



On February 28, 2014, PECO filed a Petition for
Approval to amend its EE&C Phase II Plan to continue its DLC demand reduction program for mass market customers from June 1, 2014 to May 31, 2016. PECO proposed to fund the estimated $10 million annual costs of the program by modifying
incentive levels for other Phase II programs. The costs of the DLC program will be recovered through PECO’s Energy Efficiency Program Charge along with other Phase II Plan costs. The PAPUC granted PECO’s Petition in an Order that became
final on May 5, 2014.



Pennsylvania Retail
Electricity Market.The extreme weather experienced in early 2014 resulted in increased commodity costs causing certain shopping customers to receive unexpectedly high utility bills. In response to a significant number of customer complaints
throughout Pennsylvania, on April 3, 2014, the PAPUC unanimously voted to adopt two rulemaking orders to address the issue. The first rulemaking order requires electric generation suppliers to provide more consumer education regarding their
contracts. The second rulemaking order requires electric distribution companies to enable customers to switch suppliers within three business days (known as accelerated switching). The improved customer education and accelerated switching were to be
in place within 30 days and six months of approval of the orders, respectively. The orders became final on June 14, 2014. On December 4, 2014, the PAPUC approved PECO’s implementation plan (known as Bill on Supplier Switch), allowing
PECO to implement accelerated switching by the December 15, 2014 deadline.



See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Natural Gas



PECO’s natural gas sales and distribution service revenues are derived through natural gas deliveries at rates regulated by the PAPUC.
PECO’s purchased natural gas cost rates, which represent a significant portion of total rates, are subject to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount
included in rates without markup through the PGC.



PECO’s natural gas customers have the right to choose their natural gas suppliers or to purchase their gas supply from PECO at cost. At
December 31, 2014, the number of retail customers purchasing natural gas from a competitive natural gas supplier was 78,400, representing approximately 15% of total retail customers. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive natural gas
suppliers represented approximately 22% of PECO’s mmcf sales for the year ended December 31, 2014. PECO provides distribution, billing, metering, installation, maintenance and emergency response services at regulated rates to all its
customers in its service territory.



Procurement-Related
Proceedings.PECO’s natural gas supply is purchased from a number of suppliers primarily under long-term firm transportation contracts for terms of up to three years in accordance with its annual PAPUC PGC settlement. PECO’s aggregate
annual firm supply under these firm transportation contracts is 32 million dekatherms. Peak natural gas is provided by PECO’s liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility and propane-air plant which provide 1.2 billion cubic feet and 181,441
dekatherms, respectively, on an annual basis. PECO also has under contract 21 million dekatherms of underground storage through service agreements. Natural gas from underground storage represents approximately 29% of PECO’s 2014-2015
heating season planned supplies.



Gas Main Extension
Program. On November 6, 2014, PECO filed a plan with the PAPUC requesting approval of three initiatives to provide more incentives to customers interested in switching to natural gas service. If approved, local customers would pay
significantly less initially to have natural gas installed at their homes and businesses.







See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information.



Construction Budget



PECO’s business is capital intensive and requires significant
investments primarily in electric transmission and electric and natural gas distribution facilities to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. PECO, as a transmission facilities owner, has various construction
commitments under PJM’s RTEP. PECO’s most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2015 is $550 million, which includes RTEP projects and capital expenditures related to the smart meter and smart
grid project.



See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the
Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information.



BGE



BGE is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of electricity
transmission and distribution services to retail customers in central Maryland, including the City of Baltimore, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of gas distribution services to retail customers in
central Maryland, including the City of Baltimore. BGE is a public utility under the Public Utilities Article of the Maryland Annotated Code subject to regulation by the MDPSC as to electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuances of
certain securities and certain other aspects of BGE’s operations. BGE is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of BGE’s business and by the U.S.
Department of Transportation as to pipeline safety and other areas of gas operations. Specific operations of BGE are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, BGE is also subject to NERC
mandatory reliability standards.



BGE serves an estimated
population of 2.8 million in its 2,300 square mile combined electric and gas retail service territory. BGE provides electric distribution service in an area of approximately 2,300 square miles and gas distribution service in an area of
approximately 800 square miles, both with a population of approximately 2.8 million, including approximately 621,000 in the City of Baltimore. BGE delivers electricity to approximately 1.2 million customers and natural gas to approximately
655,000 customers.



BGE has the necessary authorizations to
provide regulated electric and natural gas distribution services in the various municipalities and territories in which it now supplies such services. With respect to electric distribution service, BGE’s authorizations consist of charter
rights, a state-wide franchise grant and a franchise grant from the City of Baltimore. The franchise rights are nonexclusive and are perpetual. With respect to natural gas distribution service, BGE’s authorizations consist of charter rights, a
perpetual state-wide franchise grant, and franchises granted by all the municipalities and/or governmental bodies in which BGE now supplies services. The franchise grants are not exclusive; some are perpetual and some are for a limited duration,
which BGE anticipates being able to extend or replace prior to expiration.



BGE’s kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. BGE’s highest peak
load occurred on July 21, 2011 and was 7,236 MW; its highest peak load during winter months occurred on January 7, 2014 and was 6,526 MW.







BGE’s natural gas sales are generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures
create demand for winter heating. BGE’s highest daily natural gas send out occurred on February 5, 2007 and was 840 mmcf.



The demand for electricity and gas is affected by weather and usage conditions. The MDPSC has allowed BGE to record a monthly adjustment to its
electric and gas distribution revenues from all residential customers, commercial electric customers, the majority of large industrial electric customers, and all firm service commercial gas customers to eliminate the effect of abnormal weather and
usage patterns per customer on BGE’s electric and gas distribution volumes, thereby recovering a specified dollar amount of distribution revenues per customer, by customer class, regardless of changes in consumption levels. This adjustment
allows BGE to recognize revenues at MDPSC-approved levels per customer, regardless of what actual distribution volumes are for a billing period (referred to as “revenue decoupling”). Therefore, while these revenues are affected by customer
growth, they will not be affected by actual weather or usage conditions. BGE bills or credits affected customers in subsequent months for the difference between approved revenue levels under revenue decoupling and actual customer billings.



Retail Electric Services



BGE’s retail electric sales and distribution service revenues are
derived from electricity deliveries at rates regulated by the MDPSC. As a result of the deregulation of electric generation in Maryland effective July 1, 2000, all customers can choose a competitive electric generation supplier. While BGE does
not sell electric supply to all customers in its service territory, BGE continues to deliver electricity to all customers and provides meter reading, billing, emergency response, and regular maintenance services. Customer choice program activity
affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied energy; however, that activity has minimal impact on BGE’s electric revenue net of purchased power expense or financial position. At December 31, 2014, there were 59 competitive
electric generation suppliers serving BGE customers. At December 31, 2014, the number of retail customers purchasing energy from a competitive electric generation supplier was approximately 364,000, representing 29% of total retail customers.
Retail deliveries purchased from competitive electric generation suppliers represented approximately 60% of BGE’s retail kWh sales for the year ended December 31, 2014.



See Note 24—Segment Information of the Combined Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on revenues from external customers, net income and total assets.



Procurement Related Proceedings.BGE is obligated to provide market-based SOS to all of its electric customers. The SOS rates charged recover
BGE’s wholesale power supply costs and include an administrative fee. The administrative fee includes a commercial and industrial shareholder return component and an incremental cost component. Bidding to supply BGE’s market-based SOS
occurs through a competitive bidding process approved by the MDPSC. Successful bidders, which may include Generation, will execute contracts with BGE for terms of three months or two years. BGE is obligated by the MDPSC to provide several variations
of SOS to commercial and industrial customers depending on customer load. Charges incurred for electric supply procured through contracts with Generation are included in Purchased power from affiliates on BGE’s Statement of Operations and
Comprehensive Income.



See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of
the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on BGE’s procurement plan.



Electric Distribution Rate Case.On July 2, 2014, and as amended on September 15, 2014, BGE filed for an electric base rate
increase with the MDPSC, ultimately requesting an increase of $99 million. On October 17, 2014, BGE filed with the MDPSC a unanimous settlement agreement (the







Settlement Agreement) reached with all parties to the case under which it would receive an increase of $22 million in electric base rates. The Settlement Agreement establishes new depreciation
rates which have the effect of decreasing annual electric depreciation expense by approximately $22 million. On December 4, 2014, the Public Utility Law Judge issued a proposed order approving the Settlement Agreement without modification,
which became a final order on December 12, 2014. The approved electric distribution rate became effective for services rendered on or after December 15, 2014.



See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Smart
Meter and Energy Efficiency Programs



Smart
Meter Programs.In August 2010, the MDPSC approved BGE’s $480 million SGIP, which includes deployment of a two-way communications network, 2 million smart electric and gas meters and modules, new customer pricing programs, a new
customer web portal and numerous enhancements to BGE operations. Also, in April 2010, BGE entered into a Financial Assistance Agreement with the DOE for SGIG funds under the ARRA of 2009. Under the SGIG, BGE was awarded $200 million, the
maximum grant allowable under the program, to support its Smart Grid, Peak Rewards and CC&B initiatives, of which BGE had been fully reimbursed for as of December 31, 2013. The SGIG funding significantly reduced the rate impact of those
investments on BGE customers.



See Note 3—Regulatory
Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding BGE’s Smart Meter Programs.



Energy Efficiency Programs.BGE’s energy efficiency programs include a lighting program, retrofit programs, incentives for energy
efficient new homes, rebates for heating and cooling systems, energy audits, an energy efficient appliance rebate and trade-in program, customer incentives for non-profit, educational, governmental and business customers, energy management programs
and bill credits to help residential customers reduce energy demand during peak periods. The MDPSC initially approved a full portfolio of conservation programs in 2008 as well as a customer surcharge to recover the associated costs in 2009. This
customer surcharge is updated annually. In December 2011, the MDPSC approved BGE’s conservation programs for implementation in 2012 through 2014. On December 23, 2014, the MDPSC approved BGE’s proposal for the 2015-2017 programs with
minor modifications.



See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of
the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding BGE’s Energy Efficiency Programs.



Natural Gas



BGE’s natural gas sales are derived pursuant to a MBR mechanism that applies to customers who buy their gas from BGE. Under this mechanism,
BGE’s actual cost of gas is compared to a market index (a measure of the market price of gas in a given period). The difference between BGE’s actual cost and the market index is shared equally between shareholders and customers. BGE must
secure fixed price contracts for at least 10% but not more than 20% of forecasted system supply requirements for flowing (i.e. non-storage) gas for the November through March period. These fixed price contracts are recovered under the MBR mechanism
and are not subject to sharing.



Customer choice program
activity affects revenue collected from customers related to supplied natural gas; however, that activity has minimal impact on BGE’s gas revenue net of purchased power expense or financial position. At December 31, 2014, there were 40
competitive natural gas suppliers serving BGE customers. At December 31, 2014, the number of retail customers purchasing fuel from a







competitive natural gas supplier was approximately 161,000 representing 25% of total retail customers. Retail deliveries purchased from competitive natural gas suppliers represented approximately
53% of BGE’s retail mmcf sales for the year ended December 31, 2014.



BGE meets its natural gas load requirements through firm pipeline transportation and storage entitlements. BGE’s current pipeline firm transportation entitlements to serve its firm loads are 354 mmcf per day.



BGE’s current maximum storage entitlements are 312
mmcf per day. To supplement its gas supply at times of heavy winter demands and to be available in temporary emergencies affecting gas supply, BGE has:



•a liquefied natural gas facility for the liquefaction and storage of natural gas with a total storage capacity of 1,055 mmcf and a daily capacity of 332 mmcf,



•a liquefied natural gas facility for natural gas system pressure support with a total storage capacity of 6 mmcf and a daily capacity of 6 mmcf, and



•a propane air facility and a mined cavern with a total storage capacity equivalent to 546 mmcf and a daily capacity of 85 mmcf.



BGE has under contract sufficient volumes of propane for the operation
of the propane air facility and is capable of liquefying sufficient volumes of natural gas during the summer months for operations of its liquefied natural gas facility during peak winter periods. BGE historically has been able to arrange short-term
contracts or exchange agreements with other gas companies in the event of short-term disruptions to gas supplies or to meet additional demand.



BGE also participates in the interstate markets by releasing pipeline capacity or bundling pipeline capacity with gas for off-system sales.
Off-system gas sales are low-margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Earnings from these activities are shared between shareholders and customers. BGE makes these sales as part of a program to balance its supply of, and
cost of, natural gas.



Natural Gas Distribution Rate
Case. On July 2, 2014, and as amended on September 15, 2014, BGE filed for a gas base rate increase with the MDPSC, ultimately requesting an increase of $68 million. On October 17, 2014, BGE filed with the MDPSC the Settlement
Agreement reached with all parties to the case under which it would receive an increase of $38 million in gas base rates. The Settlement Agreement establishes new depreciation rates which have the effect of increasing annual gas depreciation expense
by approximately $2 million. On December 14, 2014, the Public Utility Law Judge issued a proposed order approving the Settlement Agreement without modification, which became a final order on December 12, 2014. The approved gas
distribution rate became effective for services rendered on or after December 15, 2014.



See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Construction Budget



BGE’s business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in electric and natural gas distribution and electric
transmission facilities to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability and efficiency of its system. BGE, as a transmission facilities owner, has various construction commitments under PJM’s RTEP as discussed in BGE’s most recent estimate of
capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2015 is approximately $700 million.







See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional details. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information.



ComEd, PECO and BGE



Transmission Services



ComEd, PECO and BGE provide unbundled transmission service under rates approved by FERC. FERC has used its regulation of transmission to encourage
competition for wholesale generation services and the development of regional structures to facilitate regional wholesale markets. Under FERC’s open access transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, ComEd, PECO and BGE, as owners of
transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost-based rates. ComEd, PECO and BGE are required to comply with FERC’s Standards of Conduct regulation governing the
communication of non-public information between the transmission owner’s employees and wholesale merchant employees.



PJM is the ISO and the FERC-approved RTO for the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of,
the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff), operates the PJM energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls the day-to-day operations of the bulk power system for the PJM region. ComEd, PECO and BGE are members
of PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. ComEd, PECO, BGE and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are currently
under the dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region-wide, open-access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM members at rates based on the costs of transmission service.



ComEd’s transmission rates are established based on a formula that
was approved by FERC in January 2008. FERC’s order establishes the agreed-upon treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on an annual
basis.



PECO default service customers are charged for
retail transmission services through a rider designed to recover PECO’s PJM transmission network service charges and RTEP charges on a full and current basis in accordance with PECO’s 2010 electric distribution rate case settlement.



The transmission rate in the PJM Open Access Transmission
Tariff under which PECO incurs costs to serve its default service customers and earns revenue as a transmission facility owner is a FERC-approved rate. This is the rate that all load serving entities in the PECO transmission zone pay for wholesale
transmission service.



BGE’s transmission rates are
established based on a formula that was approved by FERC in April 2006. FERC’s order establishes the agreed-upon treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula
rate calculation on an annual basis.



See Note
3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding transmission services.







Employees



As of December 31, 2014, Exelon and its subsidiaries had 28,993
employees in the following companies, of which 9,276 or 32% were covered by collective bargaining agreements (CBAs):



IBEW Local 15(a)IBEW Local 614(b)Other CBAs(c)Total EmployeesCovered by 
CBAsTotalEmployeesGeneration(e)1,690962,3534,13914,370ComEd3,739——3,7396,403PECO—1,282—1,2822,458BGE————3,252Other(d)72—441162,510Total5,5011,3782,3979,27628,993



(a)A separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15 covers approximately 55 employees in ComEd’s System Services Group and expires in 2015. Generation’s and ComEd’s
separate CBAs with IBEW Local 15 was renewed in 2014 and expires in 2019.

(b)1,378 PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory are covered by CBAs with IBEW Local 614. The CBAs expire in 2019. Additionally, Exelon Power, an
operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires in 2016 and covers 96 employees.

(c)During 2014, Generation finalized CBAs with TMI Local 777 and Oyster Creek Local 1289, expiring in 2019 and 2021, respectively and CENG finalized its CBA with Nine Mile Point
which will expire in 2020. Additionally, during 2014, Generation finalized CBAs with the Security Officer unions at Dresden, LaSalle, Limerick and Quad Cities, which expire between 2017 and 2018. Lastly, during 2014, an agreement was negotiated with
Las Vegas District Energy and IUOE Local 501, which will expire in 2018. During 2013, two other 3-year agreements were negotiated: New England ENEH, UWUA Local 369, which will expire in 2017; and New Energy IUOE Local 95-95A, which will expire in
2016. During 2012, Generation finalized CBAs with the Security Officer unions at Byron, Clinton and TMI, which expire between 2015 and 2016. During 2011, Generation finalized a CBA with the Security Officer unions at Braidwood, which expires in
2015.

(d)Other includes shared services employees at BSC.

(e)On April 1, 2014, Generation assumed operational control of CENG’s nuclear fleet. As a result, the total includes CENG employees as of December 31, 2014.



Environmental Regulation



General



Exelon, Generation, ComEd, PECO and BGE are subject to comprehensive
and complex legislation regarding environmental matters by the federal government and various state and local jurisdictions in which they operate their facilities. The Registrants are also subject to regulations administered by the U.S. EPA and
various state and local environmental protection agencies. Federal, state and local regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water, and solid and hazardous waste disposal.



The Exelon Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the management of environmental matters. Exelon has a
management team to address environmental compliance and strategy, including the CEO; the Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Chief Sustainability Officer; the Corporate Environmental Strategy Director and the Environmental Regulatory
Strategy Director, as well as senior management of Generation, ComEd, PECO and BGE. Performance of those individuals directly involved in environmental compliance and strategy is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual
performance review process. The Exelon Board has delegated to its corporate governance committee authority to oversee Exelon’s compliance with laws and regulations and its strategies and efforts to protect and improve the quality of the
environment, including Exelon’s climate change and sustainability policies and programs, as discussed in further detail below. The Exelon Board has also delegated to its Generation Oversight Committee authority to oversee environmental, health
and safety issues relating to Generation. The respective Boards of ComEd, PECO and BGE, which each include directors who also serve on the Exelon board, oversee environmental, health and safety issues related to ComEd, PECO and BGE.







Air Quality



Air quality regulations promulgated by the U.S. EPA and the various state and local environmental agencies in Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, New
York, Pennsylvania and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of emissions
sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelon’s subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically. The Clean Air Act establishes a comprehensive and complex national program to reduce substantially air pollution from power plants.



See ITEM 7.—MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for additional information regarding clean air regulation in the forms of the CSAPR, the regulation of hazardous air pollutants from coal- and oil-fired electric generating facilities under MATS, and
regulation of GHG emissions, in addition to NOVs issued to Generation and ComEd for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act.



Water Quality



Under the Clean Water Act, NPDES permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the U.S. EPA or from the state environmental
agency to which the permit program has been delegated and must be renewed periodically. Certain of Generation’s power generation facilities discharge industrial wastewater into waterways and are therefore subject to these regulations and
operate under NPDES permits or pending applications for renewals of such permits after being granted an administrative extension. Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and regional agencies and compacts, including the
Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission.



Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act.Section 316(b) requires that the cooling water intake structures at electric power plants reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse
environmental impacts, and is implemented through state-level NPDES permit programs. All of Generation’s and CENG’s power generation facilities with cooling water systems are subject to the regulations. Facilities without closed-cycle
recirculating systems (e.g., cooling towers) are potentially most affected by changes to the existing regulations. For Generation, those facilities are Clinton, Dresden, Eddystone, Fairless Hills, Gould Street, Handley, Mountain Creek, Mystic 7,
Oyster Creek, Peach Bottom, Quad Cities, Riverside, Salem and Schuylkill. For CENG, those facilities are Calvert Cliffs, Nine Mile Point Unit 1 and R.E. Ginna.



On October 14, 2014, the U.S. EPA’s final Section 316(b) rule became effective. The rule requires that a series of studies and
analyses be performed to determine the best technology available, followed by an implementation period. The timing of the various requirements for each facility is related to the status of its current NPDES permit and the subsequent renewal period.
There is no fixed compliance schedule, as this is left to the discretion of the state permitting director.



The rule does not require closed-cycle cooling (e.g., cooling towers) as the best technology available to address impingement and entrainment of
aquatic life at a facility’s cooling water intake structure. The rule provides the state permitting director with significant discretion to determine the best technology available to limit entrainment (drawing aquatic life into the plants
cooling system) mortality, including application of a cost-benefit test and the consideration of a number of site-specific factors. After consideration of these factors, the state permitting agency may require closed cycle cooling, an alternate
technology, or determine that the current technology is the best available. The rule also provides a number of flexible compliance options to reduce impingement (trapping aquatic life on screens) mortality, which likely will be accomplished by the
installation of screens or other technology at the intake. A number of concerns raised by the electric generation industry about the proposed rule were resolved favorably in the final rule.







Until the compliance requirements are determined by the applicable state permitting director on a
site-specific basis for each plant, Generation cannot estimate the effect that compliance with the rule will have on the operation of its and CENG’s generating facilities and its future results of operations, cash flows capital expenditures,
and financial position. Should a state permitting director determine that a facility must install cooling towers to comply with the rule, that facility’s economic viability would be called into question. However, the likely impact of the rule
has been significantly decreased since the final rule does not mandate cooling towers as a national standard, and the state permitting director is required to apply a cost-benefit test and can take into consideration site-specific factors.



New York Facilities.In July 2011, the New
York Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) issued a policy regarding the best available technology for cooling water intake structures. Through its policy, the DEC established closed-cycle cooling or its equivalent as the performance goal
for all existing facilities, but also provided that the DEC will select a feasible technology whose costs are not wholly disproportionate to the environmental benefits to be gained and allows for a site-specific determination where the entrainment
performance goal cannot be achieved. Each of CENG’s New York facilities received renewals of their SPDES permits in 2014.



Salem and Other Power Generation Facilities.In June 2001, the NJDEP issued a renewed NPDES permit for Salem, allowing for the
continued operation of Salem with its existing cooling water system. NJDEP advised PSEG, in July 2004, that it strongly recommended reducing cooling water intake flow commensurate with closed-cycle cooling as a compliance option for Salem. PSEG
submitted an application for a renewal of the permit on February 1, 2006. In the permit renewal application, PSEG analyzed closed-cycle cooling and other options and demonstrated that the continuation of the Estuary Enhancement Program, an
extensive environmental restoration program at Salem, is the best technology to meet the Section 316(b) requirements. PSEG continues to operate Salem under the approved June 2001 NPDES permit while the NPDES permit renewal application is being
reviewed. If the final permit or Section 316(b) regulations ultimately requires the retrofitting of Salem’s cooling water intake structure to reduce cooling water intake flow commensurate with closed-cycle cooling, Exelon’s and
Generation’s share of the total cost of the retrofit and any resulting interim replacement power would likely be in excess of $430 million, based on a 2006 estimate, and would result in increased depreciation expense related to the retrofit
investment. However, it is unknown at this time whether implementation of the final EPA rule will result in a requirement to install closed cycle cooling at Salem.



Solid and Hazardous Waste



CERCLA provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated
by the U.S. EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. EPA either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order
persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup
costs of waste at sites, most of which are listed by the U.S. EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These PRPs can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with a U.S. EPA-directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with
the U.S. EPA concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois, Maryland and Pennsylvania, have also
enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, RCRA governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted.



Generation, ComEd, PECO and BGE and their subsidiaries are, or are
likely to become, parties to proceedings initiated by the U.S. EPA, state agencies and/or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including MGP sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for
which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third-party.







See Note 22—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information regarding solid and hazardous waste regulation and legislation.



Environmental Remediation



ComEd’s, PECO’s and BGE’s environmental liabilities primarily arise from contamination at former MGP sites. ComEd, pursuant to an ICC order, and PECO, pursuant to settlements of natural gas
distribution rate cases with the PAPUC, have an on-going process to recover environmental remediation costs of the MGP sites through a provision within customer rates. While BGE does not have a rider for MGP clean-up costs, BGE has historically
received recovery of actual clean-up costs on a site-specific basis in distribution rates. The amount to be expended in 2015 at Exelon for compliance with environmental remediation related to contamination at former MGP sites is expected to total
$35 million, consisting of $29 million, $6 million and $0 million at ComEd, PECO and BGE, respectively.



Generation’s environmental liabilities primarily arise from contamination at current and former generation and waste storage facilities. As of
December 31, 2014, Generation has established an appropriate liability to comply with environmental remediation requirements including contamination attributable to low level radioactive residues at a storage and reprocessing facility named
Latty Avenue, and at a disposal facility named West Lake Landfill, both near St. Louis, Missouri related to operations conducted by Cotter Corporation, a former ComEd subsidiary.



In addition, Generation, ComEd, PECO and BGE may be required to make
significant additional expenditures not presently determinable for other environmental remediation costs.



See Notes 3—Regulatory Matters and 22—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding the Registrants’ environmental remediation efforts and related impacts to the Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows and financial positions.



Global Climate Change









Climate Change Regulation.Exelon is, or may become, subject to climate change
regulation or legislation at the Federal, regional and state levels.



International Climate Change Regulation.At the international level, the United States has not yet ratified the United Nations Kyoto Protocol, which was extended at the 2012 meeting of the United
Nations Framework on Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP 18). The Kyoto Protocol now requires participating developed countries to cap GHG emissions at certain levels until 2020, when the new global agreement on emissions reduction is
scheduled to become effective. This new global agreement for GHG emissions reductions was agreed to only in concept during the COP18, with a timeline for establishing the global targets by 2015. On November 22, 2013, at the 2013 COP 19 held in
Warsaw, Poland, participating countries further agreed to provide their “intended nationally determined contributions” by the first quarter of 2015 in preparation for formally setting global target in 2015. At COP 20 held in Lima, Peru, in
December 2014, participating countries outlined the universal GHG reduction agreement to be finalized in 2015 at COP 21 in Paris. On November 11, 2014, President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China jointly announced their respective
“intended nationally determined contributions” for post 2020 greenhouse gas emission reductions. The US announced net greenhouse gas emission reductions of 26-28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025, while China announced targets to peak
CO


emissions around 2030, and to increase the non-fossil fuel share of all
energy to around 20 percent by 2030. Together, the U.S. and China account for over one–third of global greenhouse gas emissions.



Federal Climate Change Legislation and Regulation.Various stakeholders, including Exelon, legislators and regulators, shareholders and
non-governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors are considering ways to address the climate change issue, including the enactment of federal climate change legislation. It is highly uncertain whether Federal
legislation to reduce GHG emissions will be enacted. If such legislation is adopted, Exelon may incur costs either to further limit or offset the GHG emissions from its operations or to procure emission allowances or credits. In June 2013, the White
House released the President’s Climate Action Plan which consists of a wide variety of executive actions targeting GHG reductions, preparing for the impacts of climate change and showing leadership internationally; but the plan did not directly
trigger any new requirements or legislative action.



The U.S. EPA is addressing the issue of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions regulation for new and existing electric generating units through the New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) under Section 111 of the Clean Air Act. Pursuant to President Obama’s
June 25, 2013 memorandum to U.S. EPA, the Agency re-proposed a Section 111(b) regulation for new units in September 2013 that may result in material costs of compliance for CO2emissions for new fossil-fuel electric generating units, particularly coal-fired units. Under the President’s memorandum, the
U.S. EPA was also required to propose a Section 111(d) rule no later than June 1, 2014 to establish CO2emission regulations for existing stationary sources. The second rulemaking, under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act, focuses on modified, reconstructed and existing fossil power plants. The proposed rule
was published in the Federal Register on June 18, 2014, and the public comment period closed on December 1, 2014. The Climate Action Plan calls for the rule to be finalized no later than June 1, 2015, and requires that states submit
to U.S. EPA their implementation plans no later than June 30, 2016.



Regional and State Climate Change Legislation and Regulation.After a two-year program review, the nine northeast and mid-Atlantic states currently participating in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Reduction
Initiative (RGGI) released an updated RGGI Model Rule and Program Review Recommendations Summary on February 7, 2013. Under the updated RGGI program the regional RGGI CO2budget was reduced, starting in 2014, from its previous 165 million ton level to 91 million tons, with a 25 percent
reduction in the cap level each year between 2015-2020. Included in the new program are provisions for cost containment reserve (CCR) allowances, which will become available if the total demand for allowances, above the CCR trigger price, exceeds
the number of CO2allowances







available for purchase at auction. (CCR trigger prices are $4 in 2014, $6 in 2015, $8 in 2016 and $10 in 2017, after 2017 the CCR price increases by 2.5 percent each year). Such an outcome could
put modest upward pressure on wholesale power prices; however, the specifics are currently uncertain.



At the state level, the Illinois Climate Change Advisory Group, created by Executive Order 2006-11 on October 5, 2006, made its final
recommendations on September 6, 2007 to meet the Governor’s GHG reduction goals. At this time, the only requirements imposed by the state of Illinois are the energy efficiency and renewable portfolio standards in the Illinois Power Act
that apply to ComEd.



On December 18, 2009,
Pennsylvania issued the state’s final Climate Change Action Plan. The plan sets as a target a 30 percent reduction in GHG emissions by 2020. The Climate Change Advisory Committee continues to meet quarterly to review Climate Action Work Plans
for the residential, commercial and industrial sectors. The Climate Change Action Plan does not impose any requirements on Generation or PECO at this time.



The Maryland Commission on Climate Change was chartered in 2007 and released a 42 greenhouse gas reduction strategy, climate action plan, on
August 27, 2008. The plan’s primary policy recommendation to formally adopt science-based regulatory goals to reduce Maryland’s GHG emissions, was realized with the passage of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Act of 2009 (GGRA)
which requires Maryland to reduce its GHG emissions by 25 percent below 2006 levels by 2020. It also directed the Maryland Department of Environment to prepare and implement an action plan which was published in October of 2013. Maryland’s
electricity consumption reduction goals, required under the “Empower Maryland” program, and mandatory State participation in RGGI Program, are listed as the energy sector’s contribution in the plan. The plan also advocated raising the
renewable portfolio standard requirement from 20% by 2022 to 25% by 2022. The Department of Environment is required to submit a December 2015 report to the Governor and General Assembly on progress towards the 25% mandate; its costs and benefits;
the need for target adjustments; and the status of federal programs. In 2016, the Legislature will review the progress report, its economic impacts on manufacturing sector and other information and determine whether to continue, adjust or eliminate
the requirement to achieve a 25% reduction by 2020.



Exelon’s Voluntary Climate Change Efforts.In a world increasingly concerned about global climate change and regulatory action to reduce
GHG, Exelon’s low-carbon generating fleet is seen by management as a competitive advantage. Exelon remains one of the largest, lowest carbon electric generators in the United States: nuclear for base load, natural gas for marginal and peak
demand, hydro and pumped storage, and supplemental wind and solar renewables. As further legislation and regulation imposing requirements on emissions of GHG and air pollutants are promulgated, Exelon’s low-carbon, low-emission generation fleet
will position the company to benefit from its comparative advantage over other generation fleets.



Based on an independent third-party verification of Exelon’s GHG performance through year-end 2013, it achieved the Exelon 2020 goal of abating 17.5 million tonnes of GHG emissions annually, seven years
ahead of plan. Exelon’s approach for addressing the issue of climate change is currently focused on continuing to manage its GHG emissions from internal operations, contributing to reducing overall grid GHG emissions and ensuring the
resiliency of its infrastructure in response to the physical impacts of climate change.



Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards



Thirty-nine states and the District of Columbia have adopted some form of RPS requirement. Illinois, Pennsylvania and Maryland have laws
specifically addressing energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States Congress. Also, states that currently
do not have RPS requirements may adopt such legislation in the future.







Illinois utilities are required to procure cost-effective renewable energy resources in amounts that
equal or exceed 2% of the total electricity that each electric utility supplies to its eligible retail customers. ComEd is also required to acquire amounts of renewable energy resources that will cumulatively increase this percentage to at least 10%
by June 1, 2015, with an ultimate target of at least 25% by June 1, 2025. All goals are subject to rate impact criteria set forth by Illinois legislation. As of December 31, 2014, ComEd had purchased sufficient renewable energy
resources or equivalents, such as RECs, to comply with the Illinois legislation. ComEd currently retires all RECs upon transfer and acceptance. ComEd is permitted to recover procurement costs of RECs from retail customers without mark-up through
rates. See Note 3—Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on ComEd’s procurement plans. See Note 22—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for information regarding ComEd’s future commitments for the procurement of RECs.



The AEPS Act became effective for PECO on January 1, 2011. During 2014, PECO was required to supply approximately 4.5% of electric energy
generated from Tier I (including solar, wind power, low-impact hydropower, geothermal energy, biologically derived methane gas, fuel cells, biomass energy, coal mine methane and black liquor generated within Pennsylvania) through May 31, 2014
and subsequently 5.0% beginning June 1, 2014 and continuing through May 31, 2015. PECO was also required to supply 6.2% of electric energy generated from Tier II (including waste coal, demand-side management, large-scale hydropower,
municipal solid waste, generation of electricity utilizing wood and by-products of the pulping process and wood, distributed generation systems and integrated combined coal gasification technology) alternative energy resources, as measured in AECs.
The compliance requirements will incrementally escalate to 8.0% for Tier I and 10.0% for Tier II by 2021. In order to comply with these requirements, PECO entered into agreements with varying terms with accepted bidders, including Generation, to
purchase non-solar Tier I, solar Tier 1 and Tier II AECs. PECO also purchases AECs through its DSP Program full requirement contracts.



Section 7-703 of the Public Utilities Article in Maryland sets forth the RPS requirement, which applies to all retail electricity sales in
Maryland by electricity suppliers. The RPS requirement requires that suppliers obtain a specified percentage of the electricity it sells from Tier 1 sources (solar, wind, biomass, methane, geothermal, ocean, fuel cell, small hydroelectric, and
poultry litter) and Tier 2 sources (hydroelectric, other than pump storage generation, and waste-to-energy). The RPS requirement began in 2006, requiring that suppliers procure 1.0% and 2.5% from Tier 1 and Tier 2 sources, respectively,
escalating in 2022 to 22.0% from Tier 1 sources, including at least 2.0% from solar energy, and a phase out of Tier 2 resource options by 2022. In 2014, 10.3% was required from Tier 1 renewable sources, including at least 0.35% derived from solar
energy, and 2.5% from Tier 2 renewable sources. BGE is subject to requirements established by the Public Utilities Article in Maryland related to the use of alternative energy resources; however, the wholesale suppliers that supply power to BGE
through SOS procurement auctions have the obligation, by contract with BGE, to meet the RPS requirements.



Similar to ComEd, PECO and BGE, Generation’s retail electric business must source a portion of the electric load it serves in many of the
states in which it does business from renewable resources or approved equivalents such as RECs. Potential regulation and legislation regarding renewable and alternative energy resources could increase the pace of development of wind and other
renewable/alternative energy resources, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity in some markets where Exelon operates generation assets. At the same time, such developments may present some opportunities for
sales of Generation’s renewable power, including from wind, solar, hydroelectric and landfill gas.



See Note 3—Regulatory Matters and Note 22—Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information.







Executive Officers of the Registrants as of February 13, 2015



Exelon





NameAgePositionPeriod

Crane, Christopher M.56Chief Executive Officer, Exelon;2012 - Present

Chairman, ComEd, PECO & BGE2012 - Present

President, Exelon2008 - Present

President, Generation2008 - 2013

Chief Operating Officer, Exelon2008 - 2012

Chief Operating Officer, Generation2007 - 2010

Cornew, Kenneth W.49Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon;2013 - Present

President and CEO, Generation2013 - Present

Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon2012 - 2013

President and Chief Executive Officer, Constellation2012 - 2013

Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team2008 - 2012

O’Brien, Denis P.54Senior Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, Exelon Utilities2012 - Present

Vice Chairman, ComEd, PECO, BGE2012 - Present

Chief Executive Officer, PECO; Executive Vice President, Exelon2007 - 2012

President and Director, PECO2003 - 2012

Pramaggiore, Anne R.56Chief Executive Officer, ComEd2012 - Present

President, ComEd2009 - Present

Chief Operating Officer, ComEd2009 - 2012

Adams, Craig L.62President and Chief Executive Officer, PECO2012 - Present

Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PECO2007 - 2012

Butler, Calvin G.45Chief Executive Officer, BGE2014 - Present

Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, BGE2013 - 2014

Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Exelon2011 - 2013

Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Exelon2010 - 2011

Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, ComEd2009 - 2010

Von Hoene Jr., William A.61Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer, Exelon2012 - Present

Executive Vice President, Finance and Legal, Exelon2009 - 2012

Thayer, Jonathan W.43Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon2012 - Present(a)

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Constellation Energy; Treasurer, Constellation Energy2008 - 2012

Aliabadi, Paymon52Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer, Exelon2013 - Present

Managing Director, Gleam Capital Management2012 - 2013

Principal and Managing Director, Gunvor International2009 - 2011

DesParte, Duane M.51Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon2008 - Present







Generation





NameAgePositionPeriod

Cornew, Kenneth W.49Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon;2013 - Present

President and CEO, Generation2013 - Present

Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon2012 - 2013

President and Chief Executive Officer, Constellation2012 - 2013

Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team2008 - 2012

Nigro, Joseph50Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, Constellation2013 - Present

Senior Vice President, Portfolio Management and Strategy2012 - 2013

Vice President, Structuring and Portfolio Management, Exelon Power Team2010 - 2012

Pacilio, Michael J.54Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Generation2015 - Present

President, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Generation2010 - 2015

Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear2007 - 2010

Hanson, Bryan C.49President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Exelon Generation2015 - Present

Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear2014 - 2015

Senior Vice President of Operations, Generation2010 - 2013

Vice President of Operations, Generation2009 - 2010

DeGregorio, Ronald52Senior Vice President, Generation; President, Exelon Power2012 - Present

Chief Integration Officer, Exelon2011 - 2012

Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Transmission Company2010 - 2011

Senior Vice President, Mid-Atlantic Operations, Exelon Nuclear2007 - 2010

Wright, Bryan P.48Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Generation2013 - Present

Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance, Exelon2012 - 2013

Chief Accounting Officer, Constellation Energy2009 - 2012

Vice President and Controller, Constellation Energy2008 - 2012

Aiken, Robert48Vice President and Controller, Generation2012 - Present

Executive Director and Assistant Controller, Constellation2011 - 2012

Executive Director of Operational Accounting, Constellation Energy Commodities Group2009 - 2011







ComEd



NameAgePositionPeriodPramaggiore, Anne R.56Chief Executive Officer, ComEd2012 - PresentPresident, ComEd2009 - PresentChief Operating Officer, ComEd2009 - 2012Donnelly, Terence R.54Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd2012 - PresentExecutive Vice President, Operations, ComEd2009 - 2012Trpik Jr., Joseph R.45Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, ComEd2009 - PresentJensen, Val59Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd2012 - PresentVice President, Marketing and Environmental Programs, ComEd2008 - 2012O’Neill, Thomas S.52Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy and General Counsel, ComEd2010 - PresentSenior Vice President, Exelon2009 - 2010Marquez Jr., Fidel53Senior Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, ComEd2012 - PresentSenior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd2009 - 2012Brookins, Kevin B.53Senior Vice President, Strategy & Administration, ComEd2012 - PresentVice President, Operational Strategy and Business Intelligence, ComEd2010 - 2012Vice President, Distribution System Operations, ComEd2008 - 2010Anthony, J. Tyler50Senior Vice President, Distribution Operations, ComEd2010 - PresentVice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd2007 - 2010Kozel, Gerald J.42Vice President, Controller, ComEd2013 - PresentAssistant Corporate Controller, Exelon2012 - 2013Director of Financial Reporting and Analysis, Exelon2009 - 2012



PECO



NameAgePositionPeriodAdams, Craig L.62President and Chief Executive Officer, PECO2012 - PresentSenior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PECO2007 - 2012Barnett, Phillip S.51Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PECO2007 - PresentTreasurer, PECO2012 - PresentInnocenzo, Michael A.49Senior Vice President and Chief Operations Officer, PECO2012 - PresentVice President, Distribution System Operations and Smart Grid/Smart Meter, PECO2010 - 2012Vice President, Distribution System Operations2007 - 2010







NameAgePositionPeriodWebster Jr., Richard G.53Vice President, Regulatory Policy and Strategy, PECO2012 - PresentDirector of Rates and Regulatory Affairs2007 - 2012Murphy, Elizabeth A.55Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO2012 - PresentDirector, Governmental & External Affairs, PECO2007 - 2012Jiruska, Frank J.54Vice President, Customer Operations, PECO2013 - PresentDirector of Energy and Marketing Services, PECO2010 - 2013Diaz Jr., Romulo L.68Vice President and General Counsel, PECO2012 - PresentVice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO2009 - 2012Bailey, Scott A.38Vice President and Controller, PECO2012 - PresentAssistant Controller, Generation2011 - 2012Director of Accounting, Power Team2007 - 2011



BGE



NameAgePositionPeriodButler, Calvin G.45Chief Executive Officer, BGE2014 - PresentSenior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, BGE2013 - 2014Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Exelon2011 - 2013Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Exelon2010 - 2011Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, ComEd2009 - 2010Woerner, Stephen J.47President, BGE2014 - PresentChief Operating Officer, BGE2012 - PresentSenior Vice President, BGE2009 - 2014Vice President and Chief Integration Officer, Constellation Energy2011 - 2012Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Constellation Energy2010 - 2011Vice President, Transformation, Constellation Energy2009 - 2010Vahos, David M.42Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer2014 - PresentVice President and Controller, BGE2012 - 2014Executive Director, Audit, Constellation2010 - 2012Director, Finance, BGE2006 - 2010Case, Mark D.53Vice President, Strategy and Regulatory Affairs, BGE2012 - PresentSenior Vice President, Strategy and Regulatory Affairs, BGE2007 - 2012Biagiotti, Robert D.45Vice President, Customer Operations and Chief Customer Officer, BGE2015 - PresentVice President, Gas Distribution, BGE2011-2015Director, Gas and Electric Field Services, BGE2008-2011







NameAgePositionPeriodGahagan, Daniel P.61Vice President and General Counsel, BGE2007 - PresentBauer, Matthew N.38Vice President and Controller, BGE2014 - PresentVice President of Power Finance, Exelon Power2012 - 2014Director, FP&A and Retail, Constellation2012 - 2012Executive Director, Corporate Development, Constellation2009 - 2012



(a)Effective July 1, 2014, Jonathan W. Thayer’s title was changed from Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon to Senior Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer, Exelon.



