ITEM 1.BUSINESS



General



Exelon, a utility services holding company, operates through its principal subsidiaries—Generation, ComEd and PECO—as described below, each of which is treated as an operating segment by Exelon. See Note
20 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional segment information.



Exelon was incorporated in Pennsylvania in February 1999. Exelon’s principal executive offices are located at 10 South Dearborn Street, Chicago,
Illinois 60603, and its telephone number is 312-394-7398.



Generation



Generation’s business
consists of its owned and contracted electric generating facilities, its wholesale energy marketing operations and its competitive retail supply operations.



Generation was formed in 2000 as a Pennsylvania limited liability company. Generation began operations as a result of a corporate restructuring,
effective January 1, 2001, in which Exelon separated its generation and other competitive businesses from its regulated energy delivery businesses at ComEd and PECO. Generation’s principal executive offices are located at 300 Exelon Way,
Kennett Square, Pennsylvania 19348, and its telephone number is 610-765-5959.



ComEd



ComEd’s energy delivery business consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago.



ComEd was organized in the State of Illinois in 1913 as a
result of the merger of Cosmopolitan Electric Company into the original corporation named Commonwealth Edison Company, which was incorporated in 1907. ComEd’s principal executive offices are located at 440 South LaSalle Street, Chicago,
Illinois 60605, and its telephone number is 312-394-4321.



PECO



PECO’s energy delivery business
consists of the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated
retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia.



PECO was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1929. PECO’s principal executive offices are located at 2301 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
19103, and its telephone number is 215-841-4000.



Generation



Generation is one of the largest competitive electric generation companies in the United States, as measured by owned and controlled MW. Generation combines its large generation fleet with an experienced wholesale energy marketing operation
and a competitive retail supply operation.







Generation’s presence in well-developed wholesale energy markets, integrated hedging strategy that mitigates the adverse impact of short-term market volatility, and low-cost nuclear
generating fleet that is operated consistently at high capacity factors position it well to succeed in competitive energy markets.



At December 31, 2009, Generation owned generation assets with an aggregate net capacity of 24,850 MW, including 17,009 MW of nuclear capacity.
Generation controlled another 6,153 MW of capacity through long-term contracts.



Generation’s wholesale marketing unit, Power Team, a major wholesale marketer of energy, draws upon Generation’s energy generation portfolio and logistical expertise to ensure delivery of energy to
Generation’s wholesale customers under long-term and short-term contracts, including a full requirements PPA with PECO, which expires on December 31, 2010, and procurement contracts with ComEd and PECO covering a portion of their current
and future electricity requirements. In addition, Power Team markets energy in the wholesale, bilateral and spot markets.



Generation’s retail business provides retail electric and gas services as an unregulated retail energy supplier in Illinois, Pennsylvania,
Michigan and Ohio. Generation’s retail business is dependent upon continued deregulation of retail electric and gas markets and Generation’s ability to obtain supplies of electricity and gas at competitive prices in the wholesale market.





For a
number of years, RTOs, such as PJM, have been formed in a number of regions to provide transmission service across multiple transmission systems. To date, PJM, the MISO, ISO-NE and Southwest Power Pool, have been approved as RTOs. The intended
benefits of establishing these entities include regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing larger wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability, market monitoring and the elimination or reduction of
redundant transmission charges imposed by multiple transmission providers when wholesale customers take transmission service across several transmission systems.



See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.







Generating Resources



At December 31, 2009, the generating resources of Generation consisted of the following:



Type of CapacityMWOwned generation assets(a)Nuclear17,009Fossil(b)6,189Hydroelectric/Renewable1,652Owned generation assets24,850Long-term contracts(c)6,153Total generating resources31,003



(a)See “Fuel” for sources of fuels used in electric generation.

(b)Includes 933 MW of capacity related to Units 1 and 2 at Cromby Generating Station and Units 1 and 2 Eddystone Generating station which were approved for retirement by the Exelon
Board of Directors on December 1, 2009. See Plant Retirements section for further details.

(c)Long-term contracts range in duration up to 21 years.



The owned and contracted generating resources of Generation are located in the United States in the Midwest region, which is comprised of Illinois
(approximately 46% of capacity), the Mid-Atlantic region, which is comprised of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland and West Virginia (approximately 37% of capacity), the Southern region, which is comprised of Texas, Georgia and Oklahoma
(approximately 16% of capacity), and the New England region, which is comprised of Massachusetts and Maine (approximately 1% of capacity).



Nuclear Facilities



Generation has ownership interests in eleven nuclear generating stations currently in service, consisting of 19 units and 17,009 MW of capacity.
Generation’s nuclear generating stations are operated by Generation, with the exception of the two units at Salem Generating Station (Salem), which are operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC (PSEG Nuclear), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of PSEG.
In 2009 and 2008, electric supply (in GWh) generated from the nuclear generating facilities was 81% and 79%, respectively, of Generation’s total electric supply, which also includes fossil and hydroelectric generation and electric supply
purchased for resale. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of Generation’s electric supply sources.



AmerGen Reorganization.AmerGen, a wholly
owned subsidiary of Generation through January 8, 2009, owned and operated the Clinton Nuclear Power Station (Clinton), the Three Mile Island (TMI) Unit No. 1 and the Oyster Creek Generating Station (Oyster Creek) through that time.
Effective January 8, 2009, AmerGen was merged into Generation, which now holds the operating licenses for Clinton, TMI and Oyster Creek.



Nuclear Operations.Capacity factors, which are significantly affected by the number and duration of refueling and
non-refueling outages, can have a significant impact on Generation’s results of operations. As the largest generator of nuclear power in the United States, Generation can negotiate favorable terms for the materials and services that its
business requires. Generation’s nuclear plants have historically benefited from minimal environmental impact from operations and a safe operating history.



During 2009 and 2008, the nuclear generating facilities operated by Generation achieved a 93.6% and 93.9% capacity factor, respectively. Generation
aggressively manages its scheduled refueling







outages to minimize their duration and to maintain high nuclear generating capacity factors, resulting in a stable generation base for Generation’s short and long-term supply commitments and
Power Team trading activities. During scheduled refueling outages, Generation performs maintenance and equipment upgrades in order to minimize the occurrence of unplanned outages and to maintain safe reliable operations.



In addition to the rigorous maintenance and equipment upgrades performed
by Generation during scheduled refueling outages, Generation has extensive operating and security procedures in place to ensure the safe operation of the nuclear units. In addition, Generation has extensive safety systems in place to protect the
plant, personnel and surrounding area in the unlikely event of an accident.



Regulation of Nuclear Power Generation.Generation is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC with respect to the operation of its nuclear generating stations, including the licensing for operation of
each unit. The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations to continuing review and regulation covering, among other things, operations, maintenance, emergency planning, security and environmental and radiological aspects of those stations. The NRC may
modify, suspend or revoke operating licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under such Act or the terms of the licenses. Changes in regulations by the NRC may require a substantial
increase in capital expenditures for nuclear generating facilities and/or increased operating costs of nuclear generating units.



NRC reactor oversight results, as of December 31, 2009, show that the performance indicators for the nuclear plants operated by Generation are all
in the highest performance band, with the exception of one indicator for Oyster Creek, which the NRC considers to be in an acceptable performance band.



Licenses.Generation has 40-year operating licenses from the NRC for each of its nuclear units and has received 20-year operating license
renewals for Peach Bottom Units 2 and 3, Dresden Units 2 and 3, Quad Cities Units 1 and 2, Oyster Creek and TMI Unit 1. The following table summarizes the current operating license expiration dates for Generation’s nuclear facilities in
service:



StationUnitIn-ServiceDate(a)Current LicenseExpirationBraidwood(b)119882026219882027Byron(b)119852024219872026Clinton(c)119872026Dresden(b, d)219702029319712031LaSalle(b)119842022219842023Limerick(e)119862024219902029Oyster Creek(c,
f)119692029Peach Bottom(d,
g)219742033319742034Quad Cities(b,
h)119732032219732032Salem(d)119772016219812020Three Mile Island(c,
i)119742034



(a)Denotes year in which nuclear unit began commercial operations.

(b)Stations previously owned by ComEd.







(c)Stations previously owned by AmerGen.

(d)On October 28, 2004, the NRC issued the renewed operating licenses for Dresden Unit 2 and Unit 3.

(e)Stations previously owned by PECO.

(f)On April 8, 2009, the NRC issued the renewed operating license for Oyster Creek Unit 1.

(g)On May 7, 2003, the NRC issued the renewed operating licenses for Peach Bottom Unit 2 and Unit 3.

(h)On October 28, 2004, the NRC issued the renewed operating licenses for Quad Cities Unit 1 and Unit 2.

(i)On October 22, 2009, the NRC issued the renewed operating license for Three Mile Island Unit 1.



On May 29, 2009, a coalition of citizen groups filed a Petition for Review of the NRC’s renewal of Oyster
Creek’s operating license in the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. If the appeal is successful, it is unlikely that it would result in a revocation of the renewed license; however, it could cause the NRC to impose additional
conditions over the course of the period of extended operation.



On August 18, 2009, PSEG submitted an application to the NRC to extend the operating licenses of Salem Units 1 and 2 by 20 years. The NRC is expected to spend a total of 22 to 30 months to review the application before making a
decision.



Generation expects to apply for and obtain
approval of license renewals for the remaining nuclear units. The operating license renewal process takes approximately four to five years from the commencement of the renewal process until completion of the NRC’s review. The NRC review process
takes approximately two years from the docketing of an application. Each requested license renewal is expected to be for 20 years beyond the original license expiration. Depreciation provisions are based on the estimated useful lives of the
stations, which reflect the actual and assumed renewal of operating licenses for all of Generation’s operating nuclear generating stations.



Nuclear Uprates.



New Site Development.Generation pursues
growth opportunities that are consistent with its disciplined approach to investing to maximize shareholder value, taking earnings, cash flow and financial risk into account. Generation has been exploring the development of a new nuclear plant
located in Victoria County in southeast Texas; however, Generation has not made a decision to build a nuclear plant at this time. As a result of uncertainties in the domestic economy, the limited availability of Federal loan guarantees and related
economic considerations, Generation announced on June 30, 2009, that it will seek an Early Site Permit (ESP) for its proposed new nuclear plant site rather than a construction and operating license as originally planned and filed with the NRC
during 2008. The change in licensing strategy allows Generation to continue with some aspects of site evaluation and







approvals while deferring a decision on construction and technology choices for up to 20 years. The ESP application is on schedule to be submitted to the NRC by March 31, 2010. Additionally,
Generation continues to hold options for acquiring the land. Among the various conditions that must be resolved before any formal decision is made to build a new nuclear plant by Generation are the granting of an ESP; significant progress to resolve
questions around the short-term interim and long-term permanent storage, as well as potential future recycling, of SNF; broad public acceptance of a new nuclear plant; and assurances that a new plant can be financially successful, which would entail
economic analysis that would incorporate assessing construction and financing costs, including the availability of sufficient financing, production and other potential tax credits, and other key economic factors. In June 2009, Exelon and Generation
approved an additional $30 million of expenditures on the project, bringing total authorized spending on the project to $130 million. Amounts spent on the project through December 31, 2009 have been expensed and total approximately $97 million.
The development phase of the project is expected to extend into 2010, with approval of funding beyond the $130 million commitment subject to management review and Exelon board approval.



Nuclear Waste Disposal.There are no facilities for the reprocessing or permanent disposal of SNF currently
in operation in the United States, nor has the NRC licensed any such facilities. Generation currently stores all SNF generated by its nuclear generating facilities in on-site storage pools or in dry cask storage facilities. Since Generation’s
SNF storage pools generally do not have sufficient storage capacity for the life of the respective plant, Generation is developing dry cask storage facilities, as necessary, to support operations.



As of December 31, 2009, Generation had approximately 52,300 SNF
assemblies (12,600 tons) stored on site in SNF pools or dry cask storage. On-site dry cask storage in concert with on-site storage pools will be capable of meeting all current and future SNF storage requirements at Generation’s sites through
the end of the license renewal period, and through decommissioning, until the DOE completes removing SNF from the sites. The following table describes the current status of Generation’s SNF storage facilities.



SiteDate for loss of full core reserve(a)Braidwood2013Byron2011Clinton2018DresdenDry cask storage in operationLaSalle2010LimerickDry cask storage in operationOyster CreekDry cask storage in operationPeach BottomDry cask storage in operationQuad CitiesDry cask storage in operationSalem2011Three Mile Island(b)2025



(a)The date for loss of full core reserve identifies when the on-site storage pool will no longer have sufficient space to receive a full complement of fuel from the reactor core.
Dry cask storage will be in operation at those sites prior to the closing of their on-site storage pools.

(b)The DOE previously has indicated it will begin accepting spent fuel in 2020. If this does not occur, Three Mile Island will need an onsite dry cask storage facility.



For a discussion of matters associated with
Generation’s contracts with the DOE for the disposal of SNF, see Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



As a by-product of their operations, nuclear generating units produce LLRW. LLRW is accumulated at each generating station and permanently disposed of
at Federally licensed disposal







facilities. The Federal Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980 provides that states may enter into agreements to provide regional disposal facilities for LLRW and restrict use of those
facilities to waste generated within the region. Illinois and Kentucky have entered into an agreement, although neither state currently has an operational site and none is anticipated to be operational until after 2020. Pennsylvania, which had
agreed to be the host site for LLRW disposal facilities for generators located in Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland and West Virginia, has suspended the search for a permanent disposal site.



Generation is currently utilizing on-site storage capacity at its nuclear
generation stations for limited amounts of LLRW and has been shipping its LLRW to disposal facilities in Utah and South Carolina. The disposal facility in South Carolina at present is only receiving LLRW from LLRW generators in South Carolina, New
Jersey (which includes Oyster Creek and Salem), and Connecticut. Due to the limited availability of LLRW disposal facilities, Generation continues to anticipate difficulties in shipping LLRW off of its sites and continues to pursue alternative
disposal strategies for LLRW, including an LLRW reduction program to minimize cost impacts and on-site storage.



Nuclear Insurance.Generation is subject to liability, property damage and other risks associated with a major accidental outage at any
of its nuclear stations. Generation has reduced its financial exposure to these risks through insurance and other protection provisions. See “Nuclear Insurance” within Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
details.



For information regarding property insurance, see
ITEM 2. Properties—Generation. Generation is self-insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained or are within the policy deductible for its insured losses. Such losses could have a material adverse
effect on Exelon’s and Generation’s financial condition and results of operations.



Decommissioning.NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the
life of the facility to decommission the facility. See ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Exelon Corporation, Executive Overview; ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments; and Notes 2, 7 and 11 of the Combined
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Generation’s NDT funds and its decommissioning obligations.



Dresden Unit 1, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Zion (Zion Station), a two-unit nuclear generation station, have ceased power generation. SNF at Dresden Unit 1
is currently being stored in dry cask storage until a permanent repository under the NWPA is completed. All SNF for Peach Bottom Unit 1, which ceased operation in 1974, has been removed from the site and the SNF pool is drained and decontaminated.
SNF at Zion Station is currently stored in on-site storage pools. Generation’s estimated liability to decommission Dresden Unit 1, Peach Bottom Unit 1 and Zion Station was $780 million at December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009,
NDT funds set aside to pay for these obligations were $1,188 million.



Zion Station Decommissioning.On December 11, 2007, Generation entered into an Asset Sale Agreement with EnergySolutions Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, EnergySolutions, LLC (EnergySolutions)
and ZionSolutions, LLC (ZionSolutions) for decommissioning of Zion Station, which is located in Zion, Illinois and which ceased operation in 1998.



If the various closing conditions under the Asset Sale Agreement are satisfied and the transaction is completed, Generation will transfer to
ZionSolutions substantially all of the assets (other than land)









ZionSolutions and Generation will also enter into a Put Option Agreement
pursuant to which ZionSolutions will have the option to transfer the remaining Zion Station assets and any associated liabilities back to Generation upon completion of all required decommissioning and other work at Zion Station. The purchase price
payable under the Put Option Agreement is $1.00 plus the assumption of associated liabilities.





Fossil, Hydroelectric and Renewable Facilities



Generation operates various fossil and hydroelectric
facilities and maintains ownership interests in several other facilities including LaPorte, Keystone, Conemaugh and Wyman, which are operated by third parties. In 2009 and 2008, electric supply (in GWh) generated from owned fossil and hydroelectric







generating facilities was 6% and 6%, respectively, of Generation’s total electric supply. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generation’s power marketing activities.
For additional information regarding Generation’s electric generating facilities, see ITEM 2. Properties—Generation.



Licenses. Fossil generation plants are generally not licensed and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial
one. Hydroelectric plants are licensed by FERC. The license for the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project expires on August 31, 2014 and for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Facility Project expires on September 1, 2014. In March 2009, Generation
filed a Pre-Application Document and Notice of Intent to renew the licenses, pursuant to FERC relicensing requirements. For those plants located within the control areas administered by PJM or the New England control area administered by ISO New
England Inc. (ISO-NE), notice is required to be provided to PJM or ISO-NE, as applicable, before a plant can be retired.



Plant Retirements.On December 2, 2009, Exelon announced its intention to permanently retire three coal-fired generating units and
one oil/gas-fired generating unit, effective May 31, 2011. The units to be retired are Cromby Generating Station Unit 1 and Unit 2 and Eddystone Generating Station Unit 1 and Unit 2. On January 5, 2010, PJM notified Exelon that based upon
its preliminary analysis, the retirement of one or more of the Cromby and Eddystone units may result in reliability impacts to the transmission system. On February 1, 2010, Generation notified PJM that to the extent the retirement of these
units results in reliability impacts, Generation would continue operations beyond its desired deactivation date during the period of construction of the necessary transmission upgrades, provided that Exelon receives the required environmental
permits and adequate cost-based compensation. For more information regarding the proposed plant retirements, see Note 14 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



City Solar.On April 22, 2009, Exelon announced that it is developing a 10-MW solar power plant in
Chicago, Illinois. The new plant supports Exelon’s strategy to reduce carbon emissions associated with fossil-fueled electricity generation. As of December 31, 2009, the project is approximately 82% complete and has commenced commercial
operations. The project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2010. The estimated project cost is $64 million. As of December 31, 2009, total costs incurred were approximately $51 million.



Insurance.Generation does not purchase business
interruption insurance for its wholly owned fossil and hydroelectric operations. Generation maintains both property damage and liability insurance. For property damage and liability claims, Generation is self-insured to the extent that losses are
within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon and Generation’s financial condition and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding
property insurance, see ITEM 2. Properties—Generation.







Long-Term Contracts



In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation sells electricity purchased under the following
long-term contracts in effect as of December 31, 2009:



SellerLocationExpirationCapacity (MW)Kincaid Generation, LLCKincaid, Illinois20131,108Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP(a)Franklin, Georgia2030942Tenaska Frontier, LtdShiro, Texas2020830Green Country Energy, LLC(b)Jenks, Oklahoma2022795Elwood Energy, LLCElwood, Illinois2012775Lincoln Generating Facility, LLCManhattan, Illinois2011664Wolf HollowGranbury, Texas2023350Old Trail Windfarm, LLCMcLean, Illinois2026198Others(c)Various2011 to 2028491Total6,153



(a)Commencing June 1, 2010 and lasting for 20 years, Generation has agreed to sell its rights to 942 MW of capacity, energy, and ancillary services supplied from its existing
long-term contract with Tenaska Georgia Partners, LP through a PPA with Georgia Power, a subsidiary of Southern Company.

(b)Commencing June 1, 2012 and lasting for 10 years, Generation has agreed to sell its rights to 520 MW, or approximately two-thirds, of capacity, energy, and ancillary
services supplied from its existing long-term contract with Green Country Energy, LLC through a PPA with Public Service Company of Oklahoma, a subsidiary of American Electric Power Company, Inc.

(c)Includes long-term capacity contracts with seven counterparties.



Illinois Settlement Agreement



In July 2007, following extensive discussions with legislative leaders in Illinois, Generation, ComEd and other utilities and generators in Illinois
reached an agreement (Illinois Settlement) with various parties concluding discussions of measures to address concerns about higher electric bills in Illinois without rate freeze, generation tax or other legislation that Exelon believes would be
harmful to consumers of electricity, electric utilities, generators of electricity and the State of Illinois. Legislation reflecting the Illinois Settlement (Illinois Settlement Legislation) was signed into law in August 2007. Generation and
ComEd committed to contributing $811 million to rate relief programs over the four-year period and partial funding for the IPA. Generation committed to contribute an aggregate of $747 million, consisting of $435 million to pay ComEd for rate relief
programs for ComEd customers, $307.5 million for rate relief programs for customers of other Illinois utilities and $4.5 million for partially funding operations of the IPA. Through December 31, 2009, Generation has recognized net costs from
its contributions of $727 million in the Statement of Operations of its total commitment of $747 million. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Illinois Settlement Legislation.



Fuel



The following table shows sources of electric supply in GWh for 2009 and
estimated for 2010:



Source of Electric Supply(a)20092010 (Est.)Nuclear units139,670139,725Purchases—non-trading portfolio23,20621,025Fossil and hydroelectric units10,18911,674Total supply173,065172,424



(a)Represents Generation’s proportionate share of the output of its generating plants.







The fuel costs for nuclear generation are substantially less than for fossil-fuel generation.
Consequently, nuclear generation is generally the most cost-effective way for Generation to meet its wholesale obligations, including to ComEd and PECO, and some of Generation’s retail business requirements.



The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the
mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has uranium concentrate
inventory and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium concentrate requirements through 2013. Generation’s contracted conversion services are sufficient to meet all of its uranium conversion requirements through 2015. All of
Generation’s enrichment requirements have been contracted through 2012. Contracts for fuel fabrication have been obtained through 2013. Generation does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion,
enrichment or fabrication services to meet the nuclear fuel requirements of its nuclear units.



Coal is procured primarily through annual supply contracts, with the remainder supplied through either short-term contracts or spot-market purchases.



Natural gas is procured through annual, monthly and spot-market purchases. Some fossil generation stations can use either
oil or natural gas as fuel. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage of favorable market
pricing.



Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate
price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures. Generation also hedges forward price risk with both over-the-counter and exchange-traded instruments. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments.



Power Team











At December 31, 2009, Generation’s short and long-term
commitments relating to the purchase and sale of energy and capacity from and to unaffiliated utilities and others were as follows:



(in millions)Net CapacityPurchases(a)Power Only Purchases(b)Power OnlySalesTransmission RightsPurchases(c)2010$305$91$1,307$102011291491,046920122742256892013151—23862014145—120—Thereafter1,105—761—Total$2,271$162$4,040$34



(a)Net capacity purchases include PPAs and other capacity contracts that are accounted for as operating leases. Amounts presented in the commitments represent Generation’s
expected payments under these arrangements at December 31, 2009. Expected payments include certain capacity charges which are conditional on plant availability.

(b)Excludes renewable energy PPA contracts that are contingent in nature.

(c)Transmission rights purchases include estimated commitments for additional transmission rights that will be required to fulfill firm sales contracts.



On January 1, 2007, Generation began supplying a portion of
ComEd’s load through staggered SFCs resulting from an ICC-approved “reverse auction” in 2006. Approximately 35% of the contracted supply from the 2006 auction was awarded to Generation. Under the terms of the auction, one-third of the
contracted load expired in May 2008, another one-third expired in May 2009 and the remaining load will expire in May 2010. For the period from June 2008 to May 2009, Generation was awarded standard block energy purchase contracts with ComEd through
an ICC-approved RFP. ComEd purchased the remainder of its energy load for this period on the spot market and through the existing SFCs. In addition, in order to fulfill a requirement of the Illinois Settlement to mitigate the price risk inherent in
this plan, ComEd locked in a portion of the energy price through a five-year financial swap contract with Generation.







The Illinois Settlement Legislation established a new competitive process, effective June 2009, for
energy procurement to be managed by the IPA, with oversight by the ICC. The IPA’s plan for ComEd’s procurement of energy from June 2009 through May 2010 was approved by the ICC in January 2009. Under the IPA’s plan, Generation will
continue to supply a portion of ComEd’s energy load. See Notes 2 and 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding ComEd’s procurement-related proceedings and the financial swap contract.



Generation has a PPA with PECO under which Generation has
agreed to supply PECO with all of PECO’s electric supply needs through 2010. Generation supplies electricity to PECO from its portfolio of generation assets, PPAs and other market sources. Subsequent to 2010, PECO will procure all of its
electricity from market sources, including Generation. See PECO—Retail Electric Services, Pennsylvania Transition-Related and Regulatory Matters for additional information regarding PECO’s competitive, full-requirements energy-supply
procurement process after 2010.



Capital Expenditures



Generation’s business is capital intensive
and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generation’s estimated capital expenditures for 2010 are as follows:



(in millions)Production plant$1,126Nuclear fuel(a)848Total$1,974



(a)Includes Generation’s share of the investment in nuclear fuel for the co-owned Salem plant



ComEd



ComEd is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of distribution and transmission services to a
diverse base of residential, commercial and industrial customers in northern Illinois. ComEd is a public utility under the Illinois Public Utilities Act subject to regulation by the ICC related to distribution rates and service, the issuance of
securities, and certain other aspects of ComEd’s business. ComEd is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to transmission rates and certain other aspects of ComEd’s business. Specific operations
of ComEd are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, ComEd is subject to mandatory reliability standards set by the NERC, for which Exelon has formed a company-wide NERC
Reliability Standards Compliance Program.



ComEd’s
retail service territory has an area of approximately 11,300 square miles and an estimated population of 8 million. The service territory includes the City of Chicago, an area of about 225 square miles with an estimated population of 3 million.
ComEd has approximately 3.8 million customers.



ComEd’s franchises are sufficient to permit it to engage in the business it now conducts. ComEd’s franchise rights are generally nonexclusive rights documented in agreements and, in some cases, certificates of public convenience
issued by the ICC. With few exceptions, the franchise rights have stated expiration dates ranging from 2010 to 2066. ComEd anticipates working with the appropriate agencies to extend or replace the franchise agreements prior to expiration.







ComEd’s kWh sales and peak electricity load are generally higher during the summer and winter
months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. ComEd’s highest peak load occurred on August 1, 2006 and was 23,613 MW; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on January 15,
2009 and was 16,328 MW.



Retail Electric Services



Under Illinois law, transmission and distribution service is
regulated, while electric customers are allowed to purchase generation from a competitive electric generation supplier.



As of December 31, 2009, several competitive electric generation suppliers have been granted approval by the ICC to serve retail electricity
customers in Illinois. There are currently a minimal number of residential customers being served by alternate suppliers. At December 31, 2009, approximately 53,400 retail customers (primarily commercial and industrial customers), representing
approximately 52% of ComEd’s annual retail kWh sales, had elected to purchase their electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier. Customers who receive electricity from a competitive electric generation supplier continue to pay a
delivery charge to ComEd.



Under Illinois law, ComEd is
required to deliver electricity to all customers. ComEd’s obligation to provide fixed-price full service electric service including generation supply service, which is referred to as POLR obligations, varies by customer size. ComEd’s
obligation to provide such service to residential customers and other small customers with demands of under 100 kW continues for all customers who do not or cannot choose a competitive electric generation supplier or who choose to return to the
utility after taking service from a competitive electric generation supplier. ComEd does not have a fixed-price full service obligation to many of its largest customers with demands of 400 kW or greater, as this group of customers has previously
been declared competitive. ComEd has full service obligations for customers with demands of 100-400 kW through May 2010. Customers with competitive declarations may still purchase power and energy from ComEd, but only at hourly market prices.



Delivery Service Rate Cases. In August 2005, ComEd
filed a rate case with the ICC to comprehensively revise its tariffs and to adjust rates for delivering electricity effective January 2007. During 2006, the ICC issued various orders associated with this case, which resulted in a total annual rate
increase of $83 million effective January 2007. ComEd and various other parties appealed the rate order to the courts. In September 2009, the Illinois Appellate Court affirmed the ICC’s order and denied the appeals. Several parties have asked
the Appellate Court to rehear some of the rate design issues addressed in the opinion. There is no set time in which the court must act.



In October 2007, ComEd filed a rate case with the ICC for approval to increase its delivery service revenue requirement by approximately $360 million.
The ICC issued an order in the rate case approving a $274 million increase in the annual revenue requirement, which became effective in September 2008. ComEd and several other parties have filed appeals of the rate order with the courts. ComEd
cannot predict the timing of resolution or the results of the appeals. In the event the order is ultimately changed, the changes are expected to be prospective.



Procurement Related Proceedings. ComEd is permitted to recover its electricity procurement costs from retail customers without mark-up.
Beginning on January 1, 2007, ComEd procured 100% of energy to meet its load service requirements through ICC-approved staggered SFCs with various suppliers, including Generation. Under the terms of the auction, one-third of the contracted load
expired in May 2008, another one-third expired in May 2009 and the remaining load will expire in May 2010. For the period from June 2008 to May 2009, the ICC approved an interim plan under which ComEd procured a portion of its energy load through an
RFP for standard wholesale products. ComEd







purchased the remainder of its energy load for this period on the spot market and through the existing SFCs. ComEd hedged the price of a significant portion of energy purchased on the spot market
with a five-year variable to fixed financial swap contract with Generation.



Beginning in June 2009, under the Illinois Settlement Legislation, the IPA designs, and the ICC approves an electricity supply portfolio for ComEd and administers a competitive process under which ComEd procures
its electricity supply. On January 7, 2009, the ICC approved the IPA’s plan for the procurement of ComEd’s expected energy requirements from June 2009 through May 2010 and a portion of ComEd’s expected energy requirements from
June 2010 through May 2011. On December 28, 2009, the ICC approved the IPA’s procurement plan covering the period June 2010 through May 2015. See Notes 2 and 8 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information regarding ComEd’s procurement-related proceedings and the financial swap contract.



Other. Illinois law provides that in the event an electric utility, such as ComEd, experiences a continuous power interruption of four hours or
more that affects (in ComEd’s case) 30,000 or more customers, the utility may be liable for actual damages suffered by customers as a result of the interruption and may be responsible for reimbursement of local governmental emergency and
contingency expenses incurred in connection with the interruption. Recovery of consequential damages is barred. The affected utility may seek from the ICC a waiver of these liabilities when the utility can show that the cause of the interruption was
unpreventable damage due to weather events or conditions, customer tampering, or certain other causes enumerated in the law. During the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, ComEd does not believe that it had any interruptions that have triggered this damage
liability or reimbursement requirement.



Construction Budget



ComEd’s business is capital intensive and requires
significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities, to ensure the adequate capacity and reliability of its system. Based on PJM’s RTEP, ComEd has various construction commitments, as discussed in Note 18 of the
Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. ComEd’s most recent estimate of capital expenditures for electric plant additions and improvements for 2010 is $935 million.



PECO



PECO is engaged principally in the purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and the provision of transmission and distribution services to
retail customers in southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia, as well as the purchase and regulated retail sale of natural gas and the provision of distribution services to retail customers in the Pennsylvania counties
surrounding the City of Philadelphia. PECO is a public utility under the Pennsylvania Public Utility Code subject to regulation by the PAPUC as to electric and gas rates and service, the issuances of certain securities and certain other aspects of
PECO’s operations. PECO is a public utility under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC as to transmission rates and certain other aspects of PECO’s business and by the U.S. Department of Transportation as to pipeline safety
and other aspects of gas operations. Specific operations of PECO are subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional and local agencies. Additionally, PECO is also subject to mandatory reliability standards by the NERC, for
which Exelon has a company-wide NERC Reliability Standards Compliance Program.



PECO’s combined electric and natural gas retail service territory has an area of approximately 2,100 square miles and an estimated population of 3.7 million. PECO provides electric delivery service in an area
of approximately 1,900 square miles, with a population of approximately 3.7 million,







including 1.4 million in the City of Philadelphia. PECO supplies natural gas service in an area of approximately 1,900 square miles in southeastern Pennsylvania adjacent to the City of
Philadelphia, with a population of approximately 2.3 million. PECO delivers electricity to approximately 1.6 million customers and natural gas to approximately 485,000 customers.



PECO has the necessary authorizations to furnish regulated electric and natural gas service in the various municipalities
or territories in which it now supplies such services. PECO’s authorizations consist of charter rights and certificates of public convenience issued by the PAPUC and/or “grandfathered rights,” which are rights generally unlimited as
to time and generally exclusive from competition from other electric and natural gas utilities. In a few defined municipalities, PECO’s natural gas service territory authorizations overlap with that of another natural gas utility but PECO does
not consider those situations as posing a material competitive or financial threat.



PECO’s kWh sales and load of electricity are generally higher during the summer and winter months, when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. PECO’s highest peak
load occurred on August 3, 2006 and was 8,932 MW; its highest peak load during a winter season occurred on December 20, 2004 and was 6,838 MW.



PECO’s gas sales are generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating. PECO’s highest daily
gas send out occurred on January 17, 2000 and was 718 mmcf.



Retail Electric Services



Pennsylvania permits competition by competitive electric generation suppliers for the supply of retail electricity while transmission and distribution service remains regulated. At December 31, 2009, less than 1% of PECO’s
residential and large commercial and industrial loads and 6% of its small commercial and industrial load were purchasing generation service from competitive electric generation suppliers.



Under the 1998 restructuring settlement, in accordance with the Competition Act, PECO’s electric generation rates
are capped through a transition period ending December 31, 2010.



During the transition period, PECO has been authorized to recover $5.3 billion of costs that might not otherwise be recovered in a competitive market (stranded costs) with a 10.75% return on the unamortized balance
through the imposition and collection of non-bypassable CTCs on customer bills. The 1998 restructuring settlement also authorized PECO to securitize up to $5 billion of its stranded cost recovery. At December 31, 2009, the unamortized balance
of PECO’s stranded costs, or CTC regulatory asset, was approximately $883 million, which will be fully amortized in 2010. For 2010, PECO estimates collections of CTC revenue of $1,032 million. In 2010, to the extent the actual recoveries of
CTCs differ from the authorized amount, a quarterly or monthly reconciliation adjustment to the CTC rates will be made to increase or decrease future remaining collections accordingly. The billing of CTCs will cease on December 31, 2010.



PECO has a PPA with Generation under which PECO obtains all
of its electric supply from Generation through 2010. The price for this electricity is essentially equal to the energy revenues PECO is authorized to recover from customers as specified by PECO’s 1998 restructuring settlement mandated by the
Competition Act.



Pennsylvania Transition-Related
Legislative and Regulatory Matters. In Pennsylvania, despite the recent decline in wholesale electricity market prices, there has been some continuing interest from elected officials in mitigating the potential impact of electric generation
price increases on customers







when rate caps expire. While PECO’s retail electric generation rate cap transition period does not end until December 31, 2010, transition periods have ended for seven other
Pennsylvania electric distribution companies, and, in most instances, post-transition electric generation price increases occurred. In recent years, elected officials in Pennsylvania have suggested legislation to address concerns over
post-transition electric generation price increases. Measures suggested by legislators include rate-increase deferrals and phase-ins, rate-cap extensions, a generation tax and contributions of value by Pennsylvania utility companies toward
rate-relief programs.



During 2009, PECO received PAPUC
approval of its Market Rate Transition Phase-In Program and the settlement of its DSP Program. The DSP Program, which has a 29-month term beginning January 1, 2011 and ending May 31, 2013, complies with electric supply procurement
guidelines set forth in Act 129 and will provide default electric service following the expiration of electric generation rate caps on December 31, 2010. In accordance with the DSP Program, PECO conducted two competitive procurements for
electric supply for default electric service customers commencing January 2011. PECO has procured approximately 50% of the total estimated electric supply needed to serve the residential customer class in 2011. The results of these procurements
indicate a price increase of 4%, on average, over current prices for residential customers. The actual price change will not be known until all the scheduled procurements have been completed.



See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information.



Smart Meter and
Energy Efficiency Programs



Smart Meter
Programs. PECO is planning to spend up to approximately $650 million on its smart meter and smart grid infrastructure. On November 25, 2009, PECO filed a joint petition for partial settlement of its $550 million Smart Meter Procurement and
Installation Plan with the PAPUC, which was filed on August 14, 2009 in accordance with the requirements of Act 129. On January 28, 2010, the ALJ issued an initial decision approving the partial settlement and determining remaining cost
allocation issues subject to final PAPUC approval. PECO plans to file for PAPUC approval of an initial dynamic pricing and customer acceptance program in June 2010, and for approval of a universal meter deployment plan for its remaining customers in
2012.



On October 27, 2009, the DOE announced its
intent to award PECO $200 million in the ARRA of 2009 matching grant funds under the Smart Grid Investment Grant Program. Assuming successful completion of the DOE negotiations and PECO’s receipt of the full award on reasonable terms, PECO is
committed to implementing expanded initial deployment of 600,000 smart meters within three years and then accelerating universal smart meter deployment from 15 years to 10 years.



Energy Efficiency Programs. Pursuant to Act 129’s energy efficiency and conservation/demand (EE&C)
reduction targets, PECO filed its EE&C plan with the PAPUC on July 1, 2009. On October 28, 2009, the PAPUC issued an order providing partial approval of PECO’s EE&C plan. The approved plan totals more than $330 million and
includes the CFL program, weatherization programs, an energy efficiency appliance rebate and trade-in program, rebates and energy efficiency programs for non-profit, educational, governmental and business customers, customer incentives for energy
management programs and incentives to help customers reduce energy demand during peak periods. On December 24, 2009, PECO filed revisions to the portions of the plan not approved based on PAPUC feedback.



See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information.



Natural Gas



PECO’s natural gas sales and distribution revenues are derived
pursuant to rates regulated by the PAPUC. PECO’s purchased natural gas cost rates, which represent a portion of total rates, are subject







to quarterly adjustments designed to recover or refund the difference between the actual cost of purchased natural gas and the amount included in rates. In October 2008, the PAPUC approved a
settlement of a gas distribution rate increase that provides for an annual revenue increase of $77 million. The approved distribution rate adjustment became effective on January 1, 2009.



PECO’s natural gas customers have the right to choose their natural
gas suppliers or to purchase their gas supply from PECO at cost. Approximately 35% of PECO’s current total yearly throughput is provided by natural gas suppliers other than PECO and is related primarily to the supply of PECO’s large
commercial and industrial customers. Natural gas transportation service provided to customers by PECO remains subject to rate regulation. PECO also provides billing, metering, installation, maintenance and emergency response services at regulated
rates.



PECO’s natural gas supply is provided by
purchases from a number of suppliers for terms of up to two years. These purchases are primarily delivered under long-term firm transportation contracts. PECO’s aggregate annual firm supply under these firm transportation contracts is
46 million dekatherms. Peak natural gas is provided by PECO’s liquefied natural gas (LNG) facility and propane-air plant. PECO also has under contract 23 million dekatherms of underground storage through service agreements. Natural
gas from underground storage represents approximately 30% of PECO’s 2009-2010 heating season planned supplies.



Construction Budget



PECO’s business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in energy transmission and distribution facilities to ensure
the adequate capacity and reliability of its system. Based on PJM’s RTEP, PECO has various construction commitments, as discussed in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. PECO’s most recent estimate of capital
expenditures for plant additions and improvements for 2010 is $500 million. See ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources for further information.



ComEd and PECO



Transmission Services



ComEd and PECO provide unbundled transmission service under rates
established by FERC. FERC has used its regulation of transmission to encourage competition for wholesale generation services and the development of regional structures to facilitate regional wholesale markets. Under FERC’s open access
transmission policy promulgated in Order No. 888, ComEd and PECO, as owners of transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost-based rates. ComEd and PECO are required to
comply with FERC’s Standards of Conduct regulation, as amended, governing the communication of non-public information between the transmission owner’s employees and wholesale merchant employees.



PJM is the ISO and the FERC-approved RTO for the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest
regions. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of, the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff), operates the PJM energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls the day-to-day operations
of the bulk power system for the PJM region. ComEd and PECO are members of PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. ComEd, PECO and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of their transmission
facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are currently under the dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region-wide, open-access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM members at
rates based on the costs of transmission service.







ComEd’s transmission rates are established based on a formula that was approved by FERC in
January 2008. FERC’s order establishes the agreed-upon treatment of costs and revenues in the determination of network service transmission rates and the process for updating the formula rate calculation on an annual basis.



ComEd’s most recent annual formula rate update filed in May 2009
reflects actual 2008 expenses and investments plus forecasted 2009 capital additions. The update resulted in a revenue requirement of $436 million resulting in an increase of approximately $6 million from the 2008 revenue requirement, plus an
additional $4 million related to the 2008 true-up of actual costs. The 2009 revenue requirement of $440 million, which includes the 2008 true-up, became effective June 1, 2009 and is recovered over the period extending
through May 31, 2010. The regulatory asset associated with the true-up is being amortized as the associated revenues are received. ComEd will continue to reflect its best estimate of its anticipated true-up in the financial statements.



The Competition Act, Pennsylvania’s electric utility
restructuring legislation, was adopted in 1996 and unbundled electric generation, transmission and distribution services. PECO’s most recently approved bundled rate for these services was approved in 1990 and established a weighted average debt
and equity return on its electric rate base of 11.23%. As a result of PECO’s 1998 restructuring settlement, retail transmission rates were capped at the level in effect on December 31, 1996. The cap expired on December 31, 2006,
however those rates will continue to be in effect until PECO files a rate case or there is some other specific regulatory action to adjust retail transmission rates. PECO’s transmission rate included in the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff
is a FERC-approved rate. This is the rate that all load serving entities in the PECO transmission zone pay for transmission service. The PAPUC approves how PECO recovers this cost through its retail transmission rates.



See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding transmission services.



Employees



As of December 31, 2009, Exelon and its subsidiaries had 19,329 employees in the following companies, of which 8,728 or 45% are covered by
collective bargaining agreements (CBAs):



IBEW Local 15(a)IBEW Local 614(b)Other CBAagreements(c)EmployeesCovered by CBATotalEmployeesGeneration1,6902421,7873,7199,616ComEd3,639——3,6395,819PECO—1,254—1,2542,391Other(d)89—271161,503Total5,4181,4961,8148,72819,329



(a)A separate CBA between ComEd and IBEW Local 15, ratified on November 20, 2009, covers approximately 130 employees in ComEd’s System Services Group.

(b)1,254 PECO craft and call center employees in the Philadelphia service territory are covered by CBAs with IBEW Local 614. The CBAs expire on March 31, 2015. Additionally,
Exelon Power, an operating unit of Generation, has an agreement with IBEW Local 614, which expires on March 31, 2015 and covers 242 employees.

(c)During 2009 and early 2010, CBAs were agreed to with the following Security Officers unions: Braidwood, Byron, Clinton, Dresden, Oyster Creek and TMI. The agreements generally
expire during 2012 except for the agreements at Clinton and Oyster Creek, which expire in 2013. Additionally, during 2009, a 5-year agreement was reached with Oyster Creek Nuclear Local 1289, which will expire in 2015.

(d)Other includes shared services employees at BSC.







Environmental Regulation



General



Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO are subject to regulation regarding environmental matters by the United States and by
various states and local jurisdictions where the Registrants operate their facilities. The U.S. EPA administers certain Federal statutes relating to such matters, as do various interstate and local agencies. Various state and local environmental
protection agencies or boards have jurisdiction over certain activities in states in which Exelon and its subsidiaries do business. State and local regulation includes the authority to regulate air, water and noise emissions and solid waste
disposals.



The Exelon board of directors is responsible for
overseeing the management of environmental matters. Exelon has a management team to address environmental matters, including the CEO who also serves as Exelon’s Chief Environmental Officer; the Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Exelon
2020; and the Corporate Environmental Strategy Director and the Environmental Regulatory Strategy Director, as well as senior management of Generation, ComEd and PECO. Performance for those individuals directly involved in environmental strategy
activities is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual performance review process. The Exelon board has delegated to its corporate governance committee authority to oversee Exelon’s strategies and efforts to protect
and improve the quality of the environment, including, but not limited to, Exelon’s climate change and sustainability policies and programs, and Exelon 2020, Exelon’s comprehensive business and environmental plan, as discussed in further
detail below. The Exelon board has also delegated to its generation oversight committee authority to oversee environmental, health and safety issues relating to Generation, and to its energy delivery oversight committee authority to oversee
environmental, health and safety issues related to ComEd, PECO and Exelon Transmission Company.



Water



Under the Federal Clean Water Act (Clean Water Act), NPDES permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the U.S. EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated and must be
renewed periodically. All of Generation’s power generation facilities discharging industrial wastewater into waterways are subject to these regulations and operate under NPDES permits or pending applications for renewals of such permits after
being granted an administrative extension.









finalized after a period of public comment. Generation believes the public comment period and regulatory process could take up to two years before a final permit is issued. Should the permit be
issued in its current form, Generation estimates it would be required to have cooling towers in operation by 2019.



Generation estimates that the cost to retrofit Oyster Creek with closed-cycle cooling towers would be approximately $700 million to $800 million. This
cost estimate includes construction materials and labor, lost capacity and energy revenue during construction, and other ongoing operations and maintenance costs. Generation believes that these additional costs would call into question the economic
viability of operating Oyster Creek until the expiration of its current operating license in 2029, and Generation would close Oyster Creek if either the final Section 316(b) regulations or NJDEP requirements have performance standards that
require the installation of cooling towers. Closure of Oyster Creek could result in reliability issues associated with the transmission system. Generation believes the period allowed for compliance will be sufficient to address any transmission
reliability issues before operations at Oyster Creek are shut down. For example, should PJM require the plant to operate under a “reliability-must-run” order, Generation would be allowed full recovery of its costs to operate until the
transmission issues are resolved.



In 2005 and 2006, the
Illinois EPA issued NOVs to Generation alleging violations of state groundwater standards at the Braidwood, Dresden and Byron generating stations. Exelon and Generation are in litigation with the Illinois EPA regarding these NOVs and cannot
determine the outcome of these matters but believe their ultimate resolution should not, after consideration of reserves established, have a material impact on Exelon’s or Generation’s respective results of operations, cash flows or
financial position. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of NOVs received by Generation related to violations of Illinois state groundwater standards.



Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of certain other state and
regional agencies and compacts, including the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission.



Solid and Hazardous Waste



The CERCLA, as amended, provides for immediate response and removal actions coordinated by the U.S. EPA in the event of threatened releases of
hazardous substances into the environment and authorizes the U.S. Government either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so.
Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of waste at sites, most of which are
listed by the U.S. EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These PRPs can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with a U.S. EPA-directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the U.S. Government concerning their
liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight prior to listing on the NPL. Various states, including Illinois and Pennsylvania, have also enacted statutes that contain
provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. In addition, the RCRA governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted.



Generation, ComEd and PECO and their subsidiaries are or are likely to
become parties to proceedings initiated by the U.S. EPA, state agencies and/or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA with respect to a number of sites, including MGP sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they
may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party.







MGP Sites



MGPs manufactured gas in Illinois and Pennsylvania from approximately 1850 to the 1950s. ComEd and PECO generally did not operate MGPs as corporate
entities but did acquire MGP sites as part of the absorption of smaller utilities, for which they may be liable for environmental remediation. ComEd and PECO perform a detailed study of the MGP reserve on an annual basis and believe that appropriate
reserves have been recorded. Since ComEd, pursuant to an ICC order, and PECO, pursuant to the joint settlement of the 2008 gas distribution rate case, are recovering environmental costs of remediation of the MGP sites through a provision within
customer rates, future estimated recoveries are recorded as a regulatory asset. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Costs of Environmental Remediation



At December 31, 2009, Exelon had accrued $175 million, consisting of $17 million, $113 million, and $45 million at
Generation, ComEd and PECO, respectively, for various environmental investigation and remediation alternatives. Exelon has recorded a regulatory asset of $143 million, consisting of $103 million and $40 million at ComEd and PECO, respectively,
related to the recovery of MGP remediation costs. See Notes 18 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



The amount to be expended in 2010 at Exelon for compliance with environmental remediation is expected to total $23 million, consisting of $1 million,
$19 million and $3 million at Generation, ComEd and PECO, respectively. In addition, Generation, ComEd and PECO may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable.



Cotter Corporation



The U.S. EPA has advised Cotter Corporation, a former ComEd subsidiary,
that it is potentially liable in connection with radiological contamination at a site known as the West Lake Landfill in Missouri. On May 29, 2008, the U.S. EPA issued a Record of Decision approving the remediation option submitted by Cotter
and the two other PRPs. Generation, which assumed ComEd’s potential liability, has accrued what it believes to be an adequate amount within the estimated cost range to cover its anticipated share of the liability. See Note 18 of the Combined
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



Air



Air quality
regulations promulgated by the U.S. EPA and the various state and local environmental agencies in Illinois, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Texas in accordance with the Federal Clean Air Act and the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Amendments)
impose restrictions on emission of particulates, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen
oxides (NOx), mercury and other pollutants and require permits for operation of
emission sources. Such permits have been obtained by Exelon’s subsidiaries and must be renewed periodically.



The Amendments establish a comprehensive and complex national program to substantially reduce air pollution, including a two-phase
program to reduce acid rain effects by significantly reducing emissions of SO2and NOxfrom power plants. Flue-gas desulfurization systems (SO2scrubbers) have been installed at all of Generation’s coal-fired units.



In addition to Federal and state regulatory activities, several
legislative proposals regarding the control of emissions of air pollutants from a variety of sources, including generating plants, have been proposed in the United States Congress. For example, several multi-pollutant bills have been







introduced in past years that would reduce generating plant emissions of NOx, SO2, mercury and carbon. At this time, Generation can provide no assurance that new legislative and regulatory proposals, if adopted,
will not have a significant effect on Generation’s operations, cash flows, or financial position.



See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding national clean air legislation in the forms
of the CAIR and CAMR, in addition to Keystone’s compliance with the Acid Rain Program Phase II limits and NOVs issued to Generation and ComEd for violations of the Clean Air Act.



Global Climate Change



Exelon believes the evidence of global climate change is compelling and that the energy industry, though not alone, is a
significant contributor to the human-caused emissions of GHGs that many in the scientific community believe contribute to global climate change. Exelon, as a producer of electricity from predominantly low-carbon generating facilities (such as
nuclear and hydroelectric), has a relatively small GHG emission profile, or carbon footprint, compared to other domestic generators of electricity. By virtue of its significant investment in low-carbon intensity assets, Generation’s emission
intensity, or rate of carbon dioxide (CO


) emitted per unit of electricity
generated, is among the lowest in the industry. Exelon does produce GHG emissions from the direct combustion of fossil fuels, primarily at its generating plants; CO


, methane and nitrous oxide are all emitted in this process, with CO


representing the largest portion of these GHG emissions. GHG emissions from Generation’s combustion of fossil fuels represent
approximately 90% of Exelon’s total GHG emissions; this is also a highly variable component of its GHG emissions to forecast due to the primarily intermediate and peaking profile of Exelon’s fossil generating fleet. However, only
approximately 6% of Exelon’s total electric supply is provided by its fossil fuel generating plants. Other GHG emission sources at Exelon include natural gas (methane) leakage on the gas pipeline system and the coal piles at its generating
plants, sulfur hexafluoride (SF


) leakage in its electric operations and
refrigerant leakage from its chilling and cooling equipment as well as fossil fuel combustion in its motor vehicles and usage of electricity in its facilities. Despite its small carbon footprint, Exelon believes its operations could be significantly
affected by the possible physical risks of climate change and by mandatory programs to reduce GHG emissions. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for information regarding the market and financial, regulatory and legislative, and operational risks
associated climate change.



See Note 18 of the Combined
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding international, Federal, regional and state climate change legislation and regulation and its potential impact on Exelon.



Exelon’s Voluntary Climate Change Efforts. In a world
increasingly concerned about global climate change, nuclear power as well as other virtually non-GHG emitting power will play a pivotal role. As a result, Exelon’s low-carbon generating fleet is seen by management as a competitive advantage.
Exelon believes that the significance of its low GHG emission profile can only grow as policymakers take action to address global climate change.



Despite Exelon’s low GHG emission inventory and the absence of a mandatory national program in the United States, Exelon is
actively engaged in voluntary reduction efforts. Exelon announced on May 6, 2005 that it had established a voluntary goal to reduce its GHG emissions by 8% from 2001 levels by the end of 2008. Exelon made this pledge under the U.S. EPA’s
Climate Leaders program, a voluntary industry-government partnership addressing climate change. The U.S. EPA confirmed on April 6, 2009 that Exelon achieved its 2008 voluntary GHG reduction goal through its planned GHG management efforts,
including the retirement of older, inefficient fossil power plants, reduced leakage of SF6, increased use of renewable energy and its current energy efficiency initiatives. Based on its verified GHG emissions inventory, Exelon’s 2008 carbon dioxide-equivalent (CO2-e) emissions were 9.7 million metric tons.







Compared to its 2001 baseline of 15.7 million metric tons of CO2-e emissions, Exelon achieved a reduction of nearly 6.0 million metric tons (a 38% reduction below baseline) at the end of 2008.
The cost of achieving the voluntary GHG emissions reduction goal did not have a material effect on Exelon’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.



In 2008, Exelon expanded its commitment to GHG reduction with the announcement of a comprehensive business and environmental strategic
plan. The plan, Exelon 2020, details an enterprise-wide strategy and a wide range of initiatives being pursued by Exelon to reduce Exelon’s GHG emissions and those of its customers, communities, suppliers and markets. Exelon 2020 sets
a goal for Exelon to reduce, offset, or displace more than 15 million metric tons of GHG emissions per year by 2020 (from 2001 levels).



Through Exelon 2020, Exelon is pursuing three broad strategies: reducing or offsetting its own carbon footprint, helping customers and communities
reduce their GHG emissions, and offering more low-carbon electricity in the marketplace. Initiatives to reduce Exelon’s own carbon footprint include reducing building energy consumption by 25%, reducing vehicle fleet emissions, improving the
efficiency of the generation and delivery system for electricity and natural gas, and developing an industry-leading green supply chain. Plans to help customers reduce their GHG emissions include ComEd’s new portfolio of energy efficiency
programs, a similar portfolio of energy efficiency programs at PECO to meet the requirements of the recently enacted Act 129, the implementation of smart-meters and real-time pricing programs and a broad array of communication initiatives to
increase customer awareness of approaches to manage their energy consumption. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding ComEd and PECO smart grid filings and stimulus grant
applications. Finally, Exelon will offer more low-carbon electricity in the marketplace by increasing its investment in renewable power and adding capacity to existing nuclear plants through uprates.



Exelon has incorporated Exelon 2020 into its overall business plans and
has an organized implementation effort underway. This implementation effort includes a periodic review and refinement of Exelon 2020 initiatives in light of changing market conditions. Exelon has recently completed a periodic review of the
original analysis of the costs and abatement potential of various emissions-reducing opportunities and remains committed to achieving the goal put forward in 2008. Specific initiatives and the amount of expenditures to implement the plan will depend
on economic and policy developments, and will be made on a project-by-project basis in accordance with Exelon’s normal project evaluation standards.



FutureGen Alliance



Exelon supports efforts to develop new technologies to help reduce GHG emissions but recognizes that many opportunities to invest in new and emerging
technologies are not yet commercially viable without Federal and state financial support. On January 30, 2010, Exelon announced that Generation intends to become a member of the FutureGen Alliance (FutureGen), which has been established to help fund
a clean coal technology demonstration plan in Mattoon, Illinois. The proposed arrangement between Generation and FutureGen is subject to a number of conditions, including the execution of definitive agreements for participation by Generation and
other contributing members. The proposed arrangement contemplates that Generation would make phased contributions of up to $32.1 million over a period of up to six years, commencing with the execution of a Cooperative Agreement between FutureGen and
the DOE to provide partial funding for the project. Contributing members would have rights to withdraw from participation before a decision is made to start actual construction of the project or if there are insufficient funds to complete the
project. Construction of the project is dependent on funding from contributing members, a grant of more than $1 billion from DOE, and financing from other sources.



Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards



Thirty-three states have adopted some form of RPS requirement. As previously described, Illinois and Pennsylvania have
laws specifically addressing energy efficiency and renewable energy initiatives. In addition to state level activity, RPS legislation has been considered and may be considered again in the future by the United States Congress. Also, states that
currently do not have RPS requirements may determine to adopt such legislation in the future.







The Illinois Settlement Legislation required that procurement plans implemented by electric utilities
include cost-effective renewable energy resources in amounts that equal or exceed 2% of the total electricity that each electric utility supplies to its eligible retail customers by June 1, 2008, increasing to 10% by June 1, 2015, with a
goal of 25% by June 1, 2025. Utilities are allowed to pass-through any costs from the procurement of these renewable resources subject to legislated rate impact criteria. ComEd procured approximately $19 million in RECs under the ICC-approved
RFP for the period June 2008 through May 2009. On May 13, 2009, the ICC approved the results of an RFP to procure RECs for a total cost of $31 million for the period June 2009 through May 2010. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information.



The AEPS
Act mandates that 1.5% to 8.0% and 4.2% to 10.0% of electric energy sold by an electric distribution company or electric generation supplier to Pennsylvania retail electric customers shall be generated from Tier I and Tier II alternative energy
resources, respectively, as measured in AECs. During 2009, PECO entered into agreements with accepted bidders, including Generation, for the purchase of 412,000 AECs annually for five years beginning no later than December 31, 2009. This
agreement along with the five-year agreement entered into during 2008 for the purchase of 40,000 AECs annually were executed in accordance with its PAPUC approved plan to acquire and bank approximately 450,000 non-solar Tier I AECs annually for
a five-year term in order to prepare for 2011, the first year of PECO’s required compliance with the AEPS Act following the completion of its electric generation rate cap transition period.



In August 2009, the PAPUC approved a joint petition filed by PECO and
various interveners for expedited approval of PECO’s early procurement and banking of up to 8,000 solar Tier 1 AECs annually for ten years. On January 25, 2010, the PAPUC approved the fixed-price agreement solar AEC procurement results.
PECO plans to enter into the fixed-price agreements by February 8, 2010.



While Generation is not directly affected by RPS or AEPS legislation from a compliance perspective, increased deployment of renewable and alternative energy resources will affect regional energy markets and, at the
same time, may present some opportunities for sales of Generation’s renewable power, including from Generation’s hydroelectric and landfill gas generating stations and wind energy PPAs.



See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information.



Executive Officers of
the Registrants as of February 5, 2010



Exelon



NameAgePositionRowe, John W.64Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon; Chairman, GenerationCrane, Christopher M.51President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon and GenerationClark, Frank M.64Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEdO’Brien, Denis P.49Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer and President, PECOGillis, Ruth Ann55Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative and Diversity Officer, Exelon; President, Exelon Business Services CompanyMcLean, Ian P.60Executive Vice President, Exelon and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon Transmission CompanyMoler, Elizabeth A.61Executive Vice President, Government Affairs and Public PolicyVon Hoene Jr., William A.56Executive Vice President, Finance and LegalZopp, Andrea L.53Executive Vice President and General CounselCornew, Kenneth W.44Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power Team division of GenerationHilzinger, Matthew F.46Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerDesParte, Duane M.46Vice President and Corporate Controller







Generation



NameAgePositionRowe, John W.64Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Exelon; ChairmanCrane, Christopher M.51President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon and GenerationPardee, Charles G.50Senior Vice President; President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon NuclearCornew, Kenneth W.44Senior Vice President, Exelon; President, Power TeamBeneby, Doyle N.50Senior Vice President, Exelon Generation, Acting President Exelon PowerHilzinger, Matthew F.46Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon (Principal Financial Officer)Galvanoni, Matthew R.37Vice President and Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon; Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)



ComEd



NameAgePositionClark, Frank M.64Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerPramaggiore, Anne R.51President and Chief Operating OfficerHooker, John T.61Executive Vice President, Legislative and External AffairsDonnelly, Terence R.49Executive Vice President, OperationsBradford, Darryl M.54Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy and General CounselButler Jr., Calvin G.40Senior Vice President, ComEd Corporate AffairsMarquez, Fidel48Senior Vice President, Customer OperationsTrpik Jr., Joseph R.40Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerWaden, Kevin J.38Vice President and Controller



PECO



NameAgePositionO’Brien, Denis P.49Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer and PresidentAdams, Craig L.57Senior Vice President and Chief Operating OfficerBarnett, Phillip S.46Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerBonney, Paul R.51Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and General CounselDiaz Jr., Romulo L.63Vice President, Governmental and External AffairsAcevedo, Jorge A.38Vice President and Controller



Each of the above
executive officers holds such office at the discretion of the respective Registrant’s board of directors or governing body, as applicable, until his or her replacement or earlier resignation, retirement or death.



Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Rowe was Chairman,
Chief Executive Officer and President of Exelon from 2004 to 2008 and has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Exelon since 2002.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Crane was Executive Vice President, Exelon and Chief Operating Officer, Generation from 2007 to
2008; Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear from 2004 to 2007.







Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Clark was Executive Vice President and Chief
of Staff of Exelon and President of ComEd from 2004 to 2005. Mr. Clark is listed as an executive officer of Exelon by reason of his position as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. O’Brien was
President of PECO from 2003 to 2007.



Prior to her election
to her listed position, Ms. Gillis was Executive Vice President, Exelon and President, Exelon Business Services Company from 2008 through 2009. Previously, she was Senior Vice President, Exelon and President, Exelon Business Services Company
from 2005 to 2008; and Senior Vice President, Exelon, and Executive Vice President, ComEd from 2004 to 2005.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McLean was Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets from 2008 to 2009; and Executive Vice
President, Exelon and President of the Exelon Power Team division of Generation from 2002 to 2008.



Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Moler was Executive Vice President, Governmental and Environmental Affairs and Public Policy
from 2002 through 2009.



Prior to his election to his listed
position, Mr. Von Hoene was Executive Vice President and General Counsel from 2008 to 2009; Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Exelon from 2006 to 2008; Senior Vice President and Acting General Counsel, Exelon from 2005 to 2006; and
Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Exelon from 2004 to 2005.



Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Zopp was Executive Vice President, Exelon and Chief Human Resources Officer from 2008 through 2009; Senior Vice President, Exelon and Chief Human Resources
Officer from 2007 to 2008; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Exelon from 2006 to 2007; and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Sears Holding Corporation from 2003 to 2005.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Cornew held the
following positions in the Power Team division of Generation: Senior Vice President, Trading and Origination from 2007 to 2008 and Senior Vice President, Power Transactions and Wholesale Marketing from 2004 to 2007.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hilzinger was
Senior Vice President, Exelon and Corporate Controller from 2005 to 2008; and Vice President, Exelon and Corporate Controller from 2002 to 2005. Mr. Hilzinger was Principal Accounting Officer for ComEd and PECO through December 31, 2006.



Prior to his election to his listed position,
Mr. DesParte was Vice President, Finance of BSC from 2007 to 2008 and Vice President, Exelon Energy Delivery from 2004 to 2006.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Pardee was Senior Vice President, Generation and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear from 2007
to 2008; Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Nuclear from 2005 to 2007; and Senior Vice President Engineering and Technical Services from 2004 to 2005.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Beneby was Vice President, Power Operations from 2008 to 2009;
Vice President, Construction and Maintenance, PECO from 2006 to 2008; Vice President, Electric Operations, PECO from 2005 to 2006; and Vice President, Engineering and System Performance, Exelon Energy Delivery from 2004 to 2005.







Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Galvanoni was Vice President and Controller,
ComEd and PECO from 2006 through 2009; Director of Financial Reporting and Analysis, Exelon during 2006; and Director of Accounting and Reporting, Generation from 2004 to 2005.



Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Pramaggiore was Executive Vice President, Customer Operations,
Regulatory and External Affairs from 2007 to 2009; Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, ComEd from 2005 to 2007; and Vice President, Regulatory and Strategic Services from 2002 to 2005.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hooker was Senior
Vice President, State Governmental Affairs and Real Estate and Facilities from 2008 to 2009; Senior Vice President, ComEd, Legislative and External Affairs from 2005 to 2008; and Senior Vice President, Exelon Energy Delivery Real Estate and Property
Management from 2003 to 2005.



Prior to his election to his
listed position, Mr. Donnelly was Senior Vice President, Transmission and Distribution, ComEd from 2007 through 2009; Senior Vice President, Technical Services, ComEd and PECO in 2007; and Vice President, Transmission and Substations, ComEd and
PECO from 2004 through 2007.



Prior to his election to his
listed position, Mr. Bradford was the Senior Vice President and General Counsel of ComEd from 2007 through June 2009; Vice President, General Counsel, ComEd from 2005 to 2007; and Vice President, Associate General Counsel, ComEd from 2003 to
2007.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr.
Butler was Senior Vice President, Large Customer Services, State Legislative and Government Affairs, ComEd from May 2009 to January 2010; Vice President, State Legislative and Government Affairs, ComEd from 2008 to 2009; Senior Vice President,
External Affairs, RR Donnelley from 2005 to 2008; and Vice President of Operations, Pontiac Division, RR Donnelley from 2004 to 2005.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Marquez was Vice President of External Affairs and Large Customer Services from 2007 to May
2009, and Vice President of External Affairs, ComEd, from 2004 to 2007.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Trpik was Vice President and Assistant Corporate Controller, Exelon, from 2004 through 2009.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Waden was Director of Accounting Operations, ComEd from 2007
through 2009; and Director of Financial Reporting and Accounting Research, Exelon Energy Delivery, LLC from 2003 through 2006.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Adams was Senior Vice President and Chief Supply Officer, BSC from 2004 to 2007.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Barnett was Senior
Vice President, Corporate Financial Planning, Exelon, from 2005 to 2007; and Vice President Finance, Exelon Generation from 2003 to 2005.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Bonney was Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Regulatory from 2001 to 2006.



Prior to his election to this listed position, Mr. Diaz was
Associate General Counsel, Exelon from 2008 through 2009; City Solicitor, City of Philadelphia from 2005 through 2008; and Chair of the Commercial and Regulatory Law Group, City of Philadelphia from 2002 through 2005.



Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Acevedo was
Assistant Controller of Generation from 2007 through July 2009; and Director of Accounting, Power Team, from 2003 through 2007.







