
10-K405
10-K




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                      ------------------------------------

                                    FORM 10-K

               [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended DECEMBER 31, 1996
                                       OR
             [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

               For the transition period from          to 
                                              --------    --------

                         Commission File Number  1-11749

                      ------------------------------------

                          PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


       DELAWARE                                           95-4337490
(State of Incorporation)                    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

                       6767 FOREST LAWN DRIVE, SUITE 300
                       LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA 90068-1027
                                 (213) 436-6300
          (Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including
            area code, of registrant's principal executive offices) 

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                             NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
     TITLE OF EACH CLASS                      ON WHICH REGISTERED
     -------------------                      -------------------
Common Stock, $.01 par value                New York Stock Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Sections 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding twelve months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to the
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes    X     No        .
                                               -------     -------

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to 
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be 
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or 
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   X  .
                                         ------

     As of January 31, 1997, there were 14,959,741 shares of common stock, 
$.01 par value, issued and outstanding, and the aggregate market value of 
these shares held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately 
$82,069,127.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

     Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on May 8, 1997, are incorporated herein by reference in
Part III.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------











                      [This page intentionally left blank]









                          PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
                                    FORM 10-K
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996

                                      INDEX


                                                                           PAGE 
                                     PART I                               NUMBER
                                                                          ------

Item 1.  Business  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

Item 2.  Properties  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders . . . . . . . .15

Executive Officers of the Registrant [pursuant to Instruction 3 to
Regulation S-K, Item 401(b)] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17

                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
         Stockholder Matters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
         Condition and Results of Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . . . . . . . . . . . .31

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
         Accounting and Financial Disclosure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .47

                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant. . . . . . . . .47

Item 11. Executive Compensation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .47

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management. . .47

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions. . . . . . . . . . .47

                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K . .48

SIGNATURES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .51













                      [This page intentionally left blank]









                                     PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS.

     GENERAL

     Pacific Greystone Corporation (the "Company" or "Pacific Greystone") is 
a leading regional builder of high quality, single family homes primarily 
targeted to first time and move-up homebuyers in infill and emerging markets 
located throughout Northern and Southern California, as well as Las Vegas and 
Phoenix. All of the operations of the Company are conducted through the 
Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Greystone Homes, Inc. ("Greystone"), with 
the exception of the Company's mortgage brokerage business which is conducted 
by a separate subsidiary of the Company. 

     The Company's primary business objective is to become one of the leading
regional single-family homebuilders while managing the risks inherent in the
homebuilding industry. To achieve this objective, the Company has adopted the
following business strategies:

     EXPANSION THROUGH ACQUISITIONS AND START-UP OPERATIONS.  The Company has 
successfully expanded its operations through selective acquisitions and by 
commencing start-up projects in new and existing markets. Within its existing 
markets, management believes there are opportunities to increase the number 
of residential projects with its current management information systems. As 
part of its overall strategy to enter new geographic markets, the Company 
continually evaluates acquisition opportunities which combine attractive 
residential projects and management with local market expertise.

     MARKET SEGMENT DIVERSITY THROUGH INFILL AND EMERGING MARKET STRATEGY.  
Pacific Greystone focuses on two distinct market segments.

     -    Infill markets generally include sites zoned for non-residential use
          within previously developed communities that will typically yield 50
          to 100 residential lots. The Company has a particular expertise in
          identifying and redeveloping non-residential sites suitable for single
          family homes. Management views its infill expertise as an important
          competitive advantage over larger tract builders due to its belief
          that the housing market in infill areas is less volatile than in
          emerging markets. The supply of buildable lots in an infill market is
          often constrained; therefore, competition is typically limited to
          resale housing.

     -    Emerging markets tend to include raw land and improved residential
          lots in areas of active new home construction. As compared to infill
          markets, emerging markets provide greater growth potential during
          periods of strong housing demand since they typically have fewer
          entitlement issues and generate more buildable lots than an infill
          market.

     GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSITY WITHIN CALIFORNIA.  Northern California and 
Southern California are distinct markets with unique economic and demographic 
trends. The number of homes closed by Pacific Greystone in California were 
divided almost equally between Northern and Southern California during 1996. 
By having diverse operations within California, management believes that it 
minimizes the risks associated with any one particular locality, yet the 
Company is able to participate in two large markets with significant demand 
for housing.





     CONSERVATIVE LAND POLICIES.  The Company maintains a conservative land 
acquisition policy designed to optimize profitability and return on capital 
while minimizing the risks associated with investments in land. It generally 
limits the number of lots acquired to less than 150 in any one project. By 
not having a significant investment in any one project, management believes 
it is better able to adjust to changing buyer needs and reduce the risks 
associated with changing market conditions. The Company only purchases lots 
after entitlements are received. The Company's inventory strategy is to own a 
two to four year supply of residential lots. Pacific Greystone's owned 
residential lot inventory has been obtained since its formation in 1991, with 
approximately 84% acquired since January 1995. As of December 31, 1996, the 
Company owned and controlled 7,219 residential lots.

     EXPERIENCED MANAGEMENT WITH DECENTRALIZED OPERATING STRUCTURE.  Pacific 
Greystone balances its local operating structure with centralized 
corporate-level management. The Company's local managers, who have 
significant experience in both the homebuilding industry and their respective 
markets, are responsible for operating decisions regarding project 
identification, house design, construction and marketing. Decisions related 
to overall Company strategy, project acquisition, financing and disbursements 
are centralized at the corporate level. The Company's senior operating and 
financial management is very experienced with the 14 most senior managers 
averaging 22 years of experience in the homebuilding industry.

     On June 20, 1996, the Company completed its initial public offering (the 
"Offering") and sold 5,000,000 shares of common stock including 4,562,900 
shares sold by the Company. The Offering was priced at $13.00 per share and 
the net proceeds were used to redeem the Series A cumulative senior preferred 
stock and the remainder to temporarily reduce amounts outstanding under the 
revolving credit facility.

     The Company is a Delaware corporation and maintains its principal 
executive offices at 6767 Forest Lawn Drive, Los Angeles, California 90068. 
Its telephone number is (213) 436-6300.

MARKETS AND PRODUCTS

     The Company's homebuilding operations are presently conducted in three 
regions: Northern California, Southern California and outside of California. 
Within each region, the Company operates through separate divisions managed 
by Division Presidents. Each Division President is responsible for the 
Company's operations within a prescribed geographic area including project 
identification, product design, construction, marketing and customer service. 
The boundaries of these geographic areas change from time to time as market 
conditions and internal conditions dictate. Division Presidents are 
experienced in the "for sale" housing business and possess in-depth knowledge 
of the geographic areas within which their divisions operate. The ability to 
balance corporate control over significant decisions and policies with the 
need to respond on a timely basis to local market opportunities is an 
important factor in the Company's operations.  The Company conducts its 
homebuilding operations through eight divisional offices.

     The Company's operations are focused on two distinct market segments, 
infill and emerging. The Company's infill projects are generally located in 
developed residential areas with ready access to jobs, shopping, schools and 
other amenities. Infill projects typically have higher densities than 
emerging markets and the Company's projects in infill markets generally 
contain a smaller number of units and attract move-up buyers. The Company 
believes that approximately half of the purchasers of homes in the Company's 
infill projects previously lived within a five mile radius of the infill 
projects. Homes in infill markets typically compete primarily against sales 
of existing homes in the market area.





     The Company's emerging projects tend to be located in areas of active 
new construction but still within reasonable commuting distance of major 
employment centers. These projects generally focus on first time and move-up 
buyers desiring lower priced homes. In these locations, cost effectiveness is 
an important competitive advantage and the price at which the Company can 
acquire lots and construct homes is a key factor in achieving home sales. 
Typically, these markets have lower densities and compete primarily against 
new homes offered by other homebuilders.

     The Northern California region operations are currently conducted in 
Alameda, Santa Clara, Contra Costa, San Mateo, Sacramento and San Joaquin 
counties. The Southern California region concentrates its operations in the 
counties of Los Angeles, Orange, San Bernardino, Riverside, San Diego and 
Ventura. Currently, the Company's operations outside of California are 
conducted in Las Vegas, Nevada and Phoenix, Arizona. 

     The following table sets forth information regarding the Company's projects
and backlog at December 31, 1996:



_______________

(1)  Actively selling projects are projects owned by the Company at which five
     or more homes were for sale at December 31, 1996. 
(2)  Backlog is the number of units subject to pending sales contracts, some of
     which are subject to contingencies. Therefore, no assurances can be given
     that this backlog will result in actual sales. See "Sales and Marketing"
     below.


     Homes in each residential project are specifically designed to meet local
buyer preferences and geographic conditions and to be competitive within the
marketplace. Typically the Company offers three to four product types in each
project generally ranging in size from 1,000 to 3,000 square feet with various
configurations for each product type. Homes are arranged within the project to
ensure a varied street scene. In designing homes, the Company also takes into
account new homes being offered by other homebuilders and homes available in the
resale market. See "Cautionary Statements" "- Dependence on California Economy
and Housing Markets" and "- Expansion into New Markets."





LAND ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT

     The Company acquires land for its residential home projects with a view
toward the development of finished lots capable of supporting housing units. The
Company views land as a component of a home's cost structure, rather than for
its speculative value. Due to the cyclical character of the industry and the
critical role of effective risk-management in land development, the Company
seeks to limit building sites owned and controlled to a number adequate to
support approximately two to four years of new home sales. Also, because of the
illiquid nature of land holdings and the related financing requirements, the
Company has implemented policies and programs to manage and minimize these
risks. The Company requires the completion of due diligence prior to committing
to acquire land, acquires only residential entitled land to mitigate zoning risk
and typically limits land acquisition size to less than 150 units to minimize
investment levels in any one project. The Company also uses options and other
non-capital intensive structures to control land, and funds land acquisitions
whenever possible with non-recourse seller financing. "Entitled" land refers to
land subject to development agreements, tentative maps or recorded maps,
depending on the jurisdiction within which the land is located. Developers
generally have the right to obtain building permits with respect to entitled
land upon compliance with conditions that are usually within the developer's
control.

     Prior to committing to the acquisition of land, the Company conducts
extensive feasibility studies covering all pertinent aspects of the proposed
commitment. These studies include such technical aspects as title, zoning, soil
and seismic characteristics, marketing studies that review population and
employment trends, schools, transportation access, buyer profiles, sales
forecasts, projected profitability, cash requirements and assessment of
political risk and other factors. Prior to acquiring each land parcel, market
studies are completed to determine the needs of the targeted customers and to
determine whether the underlying land price enables the Company to meet those
needs at an affordable price. The Company purchases land only when it can
project the commencement of construction and sales within a reasonable time
period. The Company's policy is that land can be purchased or sold only with the
prior approval of the Company's Executive Management Committee. The Company
utilizes outside architects and consultants, under close supervision, to help
review its acquisitions and design its products.

     The Company generally purchases lots or obtains an option to purchase lots
which, in either case, requires certain site improvements prior to construction.
The Company then undertakes, where required, development activities (through
contractual arrangements with local developers) that include site planning and
engineering, as well as constructing road, sewer, water, utilities, drainage and
recreational facilities and other amenities. When available in certain markets,
the Company also buys finished lots that are ready for construction.





     The following table sets forth the number of lots owned and controlled by
the Company at December 31, 1996:



________________
(1)  Lots controlled include properties for which the Company has entered into
     contractual relationships including non-binding letters of intent, binding
     purchase agreements with customary conditions precedent, non-binding verbal
     agreements, as well as option agreements and other arrangements. There can
     be no assurance the Company will acquire all of these properties.

     The Company views joint ventures as a means to both expand its market
opportunities and manage its risk profile. It enters into joint ventures with
land owners, intermediaries and other homebuilders in the ordinary course of its
business. Typically, the Company acts as the general partner and the day-to-day
manager, while the other partner contributes the land or additional equity to
the partnership. The joint ventures generally obtain development or construction
financing from banks and other sources. Guarantees of such financing, if
required, are generally provided by the partners on a negotiated basis. See
"Cautionary Statements - Real Estate, Economic and Certain Other Conditions" and
Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.

SALES AND MARKETING

     The Company sells its homes through its own sales representatives, although
sales by independent real estate brokers are encouraged in some markets. The
Company's in-house sales force typically works from sales offices located in the
model homes at each subdivision. Sales representatives assist potential buyers
by providing them with basic floorplans, price information, development and
construction timetables, tours of model homes and the selection of options.
Sales personnel are licensed by the applicable real estate agencies in their
respective markets, are provided training by the Company and generally have had
prior experience selling new homes in the local market.

     The Company advertises in newspapers and magazines and on billboards. The
Company also utilizes home shows, video tapes, direct mailings, special
promotional events, illustrated brochures and model homes in a comprehensive
marketing program. Generally, two to four different model homes are built and
decorated at each subdivision to display design features. Model homes play a key
role in helping buyers understand the efficiencies and value provided by each
plan type. Company personnel, along with subcontracted marketing and design
consultants, carefully design exteriors and interiors of each home to coincide
with the lifestyles of targeted buyers. Various plan types and elevations are
utilized to provide a more varied street scene and sense of "customization" for
the buyers.





     Homes are typically sold during construction using sales contracts which
are usually accompanied by cash deposits. Before entering into sales contracts,
the Company generally prequalifies its customers. Purchasers are permitted to
cancel sales contracts if they are unable to sell their existing homes or fail
to qualify for financing and under certain other circumstances. For the years
ended December 31, 1994, 1995 and 1996, the Company experienced a cancellation
rate of approximately 24%, 21% and 25%,  respectively. Although cancellations
can delay the sale of the Company's homes, they have not had a material impact
on sales, operations or liquidity since the Company closely monitors the
progress of prospective buyers in obtaining financing and monitors and adjusts
its start plans to better match the level of demand for its homes. The Company
does not recognize revenue on homes covered by pending sales contracts until the
sales are closed and the risk of ownership has been transferred to the buyer.
See "Cautionary Statements - Interest Rates; Mortgage Financing."

CONSTRUCTION

     The Company strives to match construction starts to its sales rates. The
Company generally will not start construction of a phase of homes until sales
have met predetermined targets. The Company controls its construction starts by
releasing homes for construction and for sale in phases. The size of these
phases depends on such factors as current sales and cancellation rates, the type
of buyer targeted for a particular residential project, the time of the year and
the Company's assessment of prevailing and anticipated economic conditions.
Normally, the Company does not release homes for sale until a significant
portion of the homes' construction cost has been established through firm
subcontractor bids.

     The Company functions as a general contractor, subcontracting its
construction activities. The Company manages these activities with on-site
supervisory employees and informational and management control systems. The
services of independent architectural, design, engineering and other consulting
firms are engaged to assist in project planning. The Company does not have long-
term contractual commitments with its subcontractors, consultants or suppliers
of materials, who are generally selected on a competitive bid basis. However,
the Company has generally been able to obtain sufficient materials and
subcontractors during times of market shortages. Depending on the design, time
of year, local labor situation, governmental approvals, availability of
materials and supplies, and other factors, the Company generally completes a
home in four to six months.

     By limiting the size of each construction phase and closely monitoring
sales activity, the Company attempts to limit the number of unsold units under
construction. However, unlike homebuyers in other parts of the country,
homebuyers in the Company's markets generally are not accustomed to long delays
in the delivery of homes. Accordingly, the Company and other homebuilders in the
Company's markets typically commence construction prior to obtaining sales
contracts for all homes within a given phase. Building homes of the same product
type in phases also allows the Company to utilize production techniques that
reduce its construction costs. The number of unsold homes fluctuates depending
upon the timing of completion of construction and absorption of home phases. At
December 31, 1996, the Company had 135 completed and unsold homes, excluding 132
model homes. See "Cautionary Statements - Real Estate, Economic and Certain
Other Conditions" and "-Dependence on California Economy and Housing Markets."





CUSTOMER SERVICE AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT

     The Company believes it provides high quality homes by employing a quality
process which is intended to provide a positive atmosphere for each customer
throughout the pre-sale, sale, building, closing and post-closing periods. The
participation of the sales representatives, on-site construction supervisor and
the post-closing customer service personnel, working in a team effort, is
intended to foster the Company's reputation for quality service and ultimately
lead to enhanced customer retention and referrals.

     Homebuyers are provided with a warranty program which, in general, provides
for a limited one-year warranty on building materials and, in California, a ten-
year statutory warranty with respect to construction defects. The Company
establishes reserves for future warranty costs which are periodically reviewed
and adjusted as necessary.

     In 1995, the Company initiated Total Quality Management ("TQM") as a
process to improve customer satisfaction and reduce costs in all aspects of the
Company's operations. TQM is a continual process in which all employees are
involved in improving productivity and product quality. The Company believes its
TQM process will increase long-term profitability.

MORTGAGE BROKERAGE OPERATIONS

     The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, PGC/Pacific Mortgage,
Inc., offers mortgage brokerage services exclusively to its customers in most of
its markets. The Company, acting as a broker, has agreements with various
lenders to receive a fee on loans made by the lenders to customers introduced to
the lenders by the Company. The Company does not originate, fund or service the
loans. No credit or interest rate risk is assumed by the Company with respect to
the loans.

INFORMATION SYSTEMS

     From its inception, the Company has assigned a high priority to the
development and implementation of systems and procedures. It has implemented a
highly automated accounting and operational system using a proven software
package widely used by other publicly owned homebuilders. This system is
integrated and functions from a common data base to maintain the integrity of
the data. All of the Company's offices are electronically connected via
dedicated phone lines and a wide area network. This system facilitates the use
of common accounting, financial and operational databases.

     The Company has invested significantly in the development and
implementation of its systems and procedures and has, by design, created
capacity to manage larger volumes of activity than the Company is presently
experiencing. In addition to its accounting and operational systems, the Company
utilizes specialized software packages for specific applications that range from
project feasibility analysis to construction scheduling. The Company has also
designed its budgeting and planning system to accommodate expanded public
reporting requirements. The Company has organized its operating divisions with a
full complement of experienced financial personnel to manage divisional
accounting functions and support division personnel.





COMPETITION

     The residential homebuilding industry is highly competitive, with
homebuilders competing for customers, desirable properties, financing, raw
materials and skilled labor. The Company competes on the basis of location,
design, quality and price with numerous other residential homebuilders, ranging
from regional and national firms to small local companies. In addition, the
Company competes with resales of existing residential housing by individuals,
financial institutions and others. Competition is particularly intense when the
Company enters a new market area. Many of the Company's competitors are larger
than the Company and have greater financial resources.

REGULATORY AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     The residential homebuilding industry is subject to various local, state
and other statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning,
building design, construction and similar matters, including local regulations
which impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the
number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of particular
areas. The Company may also be subject to periodic delays in its homebuilding
projects due to building moratoria. In addition, certain new development
projects, particularly in Southern California, are subject to various
assessments for schools, parks, streets and highways and other public
improvements, the costs of which can be substantial. By raising the cost of the
Company's homes to its customers, an increase in such assessments could have a
negative impact on the Company's sales.

     The residential homebuilding industry is also subject to a variety of
local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning
the protection of health and the environment. The environmental laws that apply
to a given homebuilding site depend on the site's location, its environmental
conditions and the present and former uses of the site, as well as adjoining
properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in delays, may cause
the Company to incur substantial compliance and other costs, and can prohibit or
severely restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive
regions or areas. Additionally, the climate and geology of the markets in
California present risks of natural disasters that could adversely affect the
homebuilding industry in general, and the Company's business in particular.

     See "Cautionary Statements" "- Dependence on California Economy and Housing
Markets" and "- Regulatory and Environmental Matters."

EMPLOYEES

     At December 31, 1996, the Company had 396 employees. The Company considers
its relations with its employees to be good. The Company's homebuilding
operations are conducted primarily through independent subcontractors, thereby
limiting the number of its employees. None of the Company's employees is
represented by a union.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS

     The Company wishes to caution readers that the following important factors,
among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, the
Company's actual results and could cause the Company's actual results to differ
materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements
made in this Report. The words "likely," "expected," "anticipated," "estimate"
or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. The Company intends
to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.





     REAL ESTATE, ECONOMIC AND CERTAIN OTHER CONDITIONS. The residential
homebuilding industry is cyclical and is highly sensitive to changes in general
economic conditions, such as levels of employment, consumer confidence and
income, availability of financing for acquisition, construction and permanent
mortgages, interest rate levels and demand for housing. Sales of new houses are
also affected by the condition of the resale market for used homes, including
foreclosed homes.

     The risks associated with holding an inventory of lots are substantial for
homebuilders due to the high carrying costs of lots. The market value of housing
inventories can change significantly over the life of a project, reflecting
dynamic market conditions. This may result in losses when trying to exit a
poorly performing project or market. Also, cash flow management is crucial due
to high leverage and the seasonal cycle of home sales. The need to stage raw
materials such as land and finished lots ahead of the start of home construction
requires homebuilders to commit working capital for longer periods than is true
for manufacturing companies. The Company attempts to reduce these risks through
(i) constraining project size and (ii) acquiring lots and land through the use
of options and joint ventures where possible, thereby enabling the Company to
control lots with a smaller capital investment. However, there can be no
assurance that such efforts will be successful. At December 31, 1996, the
Company had 135 completed and unsold homes, excluding 132 model homes.

     The residential homebuilding industry has, from time to time, experienced
fluctuating lumber prices and supply, as well as serious shortages of labor and
other materials, including insulation, drywall, carpenters, electricians,
plumbers and concrete. Delays in construction of homes due to these factors or
to inclement weather conditions could have an adverse effect upon the Company's
operations.

     DEPENDENCE ON CALIFORNIA ECONOMY AND HOUSING MARKETS. The Company presently
conducts most of its business in California. Economic growth in California has
slowed considerably in the 1990s compared to the late 1980s. The average sale
price of homes in most of the areas in California in which the Company does
business has decreased overall during the 1990s and there can be no assurance
that home sale prices will not decline more in the future. A continued prolonged
economic downturn in California would have a material adverse effect on the
Company's operations.

     Periodically, the State of California has experienced drought conditions,
resulting in water conservation measures and, in some cases, rationing by local
municipalities in which the Company does business. Restrictions by governmental
agencies on future construction activity could have an adverse effect upon the
Company's operations.

     The climate and geology of the markets in which the Company operates
present risks of natural disasters. To the extent that earthquakes, droughts,
floods, wildfires or other natural disasters or similar events occur, the
homebuilding industry in general, and the Company's business in particular, may
be adversely affected. 

     INTEREST RATES; MORTGAGE FINANCING. Virtually all purchasers of the
Company's homes finance their acquisitions through third-party lenders providing
mortgage financing. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by
increases in interest rates, housing costs and unemployment and by decreases in
the availability of mortgage financing. In addition, various proposals for a
flat rate federal income tax have been discussed, some of which would remove or
limit the deduction for home mortgage interest. If effective mortgage interest
rates increase and the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance
home purchases is adversely affected, the Company's operating results may be
negatively affected. The Company's homebuilding activities also are dependent
upon the availability and cost of mortgage financing for buyers of homes owned
by potential customers permitting those customers to sell their existing homes
and purchase homes from the Company. Any limitations or restrictions on the
availability of such financing could adversely affect the Company's sales.





     COMPETITION. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive and
fragmented. Homebuilders compete not only for homebuyers, but also for desirable
properties, financing, raw materials and skilled labor. The Company competes
with other local, regional and national homebuilders, often within larger
subdivisions designed, planned and developed by the other homebuilders. Some of
the Company's competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial,
marketing and sales resources than the Company.

     EXPANSION INTO NEW MARKETS. The Company's operations to date have generally
been limited to Northern and Southern California, as well as the Las Vegas
and Phoenix markets. To the extent the Company expands into new markets, it will
need to employ personnel with knowledge of the new markets as it has done in Las
Vegas and Phoenix. There can be no assurances that the Company will be able to
employ the necessary personnel or that the Company's operations will be
successful in any new markets. When evaluating acquisitions in new markets, an
important factor to the Company is whether managers with local knowledge can be
employed.

     REGULATORY AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. The Company and its competitors are
subject to various local and state statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations
concerning zoning, building design, construction and similar matters which
impose restrictive zoning and density requirements limiting the number of homes
that may be built within the boundaries of a particular area. The Company may
also be subject to periodic delays in its homebuilding projects due to building
moratoria. In addition, certain new development projects, particularly in
Southern California, are subject to various assessments for schools, parks,
streets and highways and other public improvements, the costs of which can be
substantial. By raising the cost of the Company's homes to its customers, an
increase in such assessments could have a negative impact on the Company's
sales.

     The Company and its competitors are also subject to a variety of local,
state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the
protection of health and the environment. The particular environmental laws
which apply to any given homebuilding site vary according to the site's
location, its environmental conditions and the present and former uses of the
site, as well as adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may
result in delays, may cause the Company to incur substantial compliance and
other costs, and may prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in
environmentally sensitive regions or areas.

     In recent years, several cities and counties in which the Company has
projects have approved the inclusion of "slow growth" initiatives and other
ballot measures which could impact the affordability and availability of homes
and land within those localities. Although many of these initiatives have been
defeated, the Company believes that if similar initiatives are introduced and
approved, future residential construction by the Company within certain cities
or counties could be negatively impacted.

     VARIABILITY OF RESULTS. The Company historically has experienced, and in 
the future expects to continue to experience, variability in sales and 
revenues on a quarterly basis. Factors expected to contribute to this 
variability include, among others (i) the timing of home closings; (ii) the 
Company's ability to continue to acquire land and options thereon on 
acceptable terms; (iii) the timing of receipt of regulatory approvals for the 
construction of homes; (iv) the condition of the real estate market and 
general economic conditions in California, especially in the Company's 
markets; (v) the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry; (vi) the 
prevailing interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing; (vii) 
pricing policies of the Company's competitors; (viii) the timing of the 
opening of new residential projects; (ix) weather; and (x) the cost and 
availability of materials and labor. The Company's historical financial 
performance is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of future results and, 
in particular, the Company expects its financial results to vary from project 
to project and from quarter to quarter.




     ACCESS TO FINANCING. The homebuilding industry is capital intensive and
requires expenditures for land purchases, land development and housing
construction. Accordingly, the Company incurs substantial indebtedness to
finance its homebuilding activities. The Company may be required to seek
additional capital in the form of equity or debt financing from a variety of
potential sources, including additional bank financing and securities offerings.
The amount and types of indebtedness which the Company may incur is limited by
the terms of the indentures under which the senior unsecured notes of a
subsidiary of the Company were issued and by the terms of the Company's existing
revolving credit agreement. If the Company is not successful in obtaining
sufficient capital to fund its planned expansion and other expenditures, new
projects may be constrained. Any such delay or abandonment could result in a
reduction in sales and may adversely affect the Company's future results of
operations. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources" and
Notes 6 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.

     DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL. The success of the Company depends to a
significant degree on the efforts of the Company's senior management, especially
its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other officers. The
Company's operations may be adversely affected if one or more members of senior
management cease to be active in the Company. The Company has employment
agreements only with its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
The Company has designed its compensation structure and employee benefit
programs to encourage long-term employment of all executive officers. 

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES.

     In addition to real estate held for development and sale, which is either
owned or under option to be purchased by the Company, the Company leases office
space for its corporate headquarters, located in Los Angeles, California,
through 1997, with extensions at the Company's option for an additional six
years. In addition, the Company leases each of its other offices and those
leases have initial terms expiring from 1997 through 1999 and renewal options.
The Company believes that its office space is suitable and adequate for its
needs for the foreseeable future. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     The Company is involved in routine litigation arising in the ordinary
course of its business. In the opinion of the Company's management, none of the
pending litigation will have a material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     No matters were submitted during the fourth quarter of 1996 to a vote of
security holders, through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise.













                      [This page intentionally left blank]









EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT [PURSUANT TO INSTRUCTION 3 TO REGULATION
S-K, ITEM 401(b)]



__________________
(1)  All positions described were with the Company, unless otherwise indicated.
(2)  Member of the Executive Management Committee.













                      [This page intentionally left blank]









                                     PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     The Company's shares of common stock are listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol "GRY." The following table sets forth, for the
quarters indicated, the reported high and low sales prices of the common shares.
The last reported closing price of the Company's common stock on the New York
Stock Exchange was $14-1/8 on February 10, 1997. Prior to June 20, 1996, the
Company's common stock was closely held and there was no established public
trading market. As of January 31, 1997, there were 28 holders of record of the
Company's common stock.


              QUARTER ENDED                    HIGH          LOW
              -------------                  ---------     --------
              June 30, 1996*                 $  12 5/8     $     11
              September 30, 1996             $  12 3/8     $  9 3/4
              December 31, 1996              $  12 1/2     $  9 3/4

                 *From June 21, 1996 to June 30, 1996


     No cash dividends have ever been declared or paid on the Company's common
stock. The Company anticipates that all future earnings will be retained to
finance the continuing development of its business and does not anticipate
paying cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment
of any future cash dividends will be at the discretion of the Company's Board of
Directors and will depend upon, among other things, future cash earnings,
capital requirements, the general financial condition of the Company and general
business conditions. Payment of dividends by Greystone to the Company is limited
by certain financing arrangements of the Company. See "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and
Capital Resources" included in Item 7.





ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

     The following tables include selected consolidated financial data of the
Company as of and for the years ended December 31, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995 and
1996 which are derived from the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
These tables should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Report and Item 7,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations."  These historical results are not necessarily indicative of the
results to be expected in the future.


__________________________
(1)  Includes the operating results of the California Homebuilding Operations of
     A-M Homes only from October 1, 1992.
(2)  Pro forma earnings for purposes of this calculation is historical pretax
     income less an assumed provision for income taxes at an effective tax rate
     of 40.8% and excludes the effect of the preferred dividend requirements.
(3)  Pro forma weighted average number of shares outstanding were calculated as
     if the Offering was consummated on January 1, 1995 and the changes in the
     capital structure as discussed in Note 1 and 9 to the Consolidated
     Financial Statements occurred on such date.





ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

The following tables present certain housing data of the Company, including
unconsolidated joint ventures:

                                                                            
                                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                          -------------------------------------
                                             1994         1995          1996
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
                                                 (Dollars in thousands)
UNITS:
HOMES CLOSED:
 Northern California. . . . . . . . . . .        541          668           660
 Southern California. . . . . . . . . . .        471          520           748
 Outside California . . . . . . . . . . .         --           32           548
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
   Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,012        1,220         1,956
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
 Joint Ventures . . . . . . . . . . . . .        319          154             5
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
NET NEW ORDERS (NET OF CANCELLATIONS):                                         
 Northern California. . . . . . . . . . .        535          651           804
 Southern California. . . . . . . . . . .        461          565           780
 Outside California . . . . . . . . . . .         --          177 (1)       633
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
   Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        996        1,393         2,217
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
 Joint Ventures . . . . . . . . . . . . .        335          104             2
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
BACKLOG (AT YEAR-END) (2):                                                     
 Northern California. . . . . . . . . . .         85           68           212
 Southern California. . . . . . . . . . .         64          109           141
 Outside California . . . . . . . . . . .         --          145 (1)       230
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
   Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        149          322           583
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
 Joint Ventures . . . . . . . . . . . . .         53            3            --
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
DOLLARS:                                                                       
AVERAGE PRICE OF HOMES CLOSED:                                                 
 Northern California. . . . . . . . . . . $      239   $      244    $      259
 Southern California. . . . . . . . . . . $      267   $      222    $      246
 Outside California . . . . . . . . . . . $       --   $       99    $      108
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
   Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $      252   $      231    $      212
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
 Joint Ventures . . . . . . . . . . . . . $      288   $      265    $      200
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
BACKLOG VALUE (AT YEAR-END) (2):                                               
 Northern California. . . . . . . . . . . $   20,735   $   19,049    $   62,371
 Southern California. . . . . . . . . . .     13,828       26,436        41,799
 Outside California . . . . . . . . . . .         --       14,065 (1)    30,326
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
   Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $   34,563   $   59,550    $  134,496
 Joint Ventures . . . . . . . . . . . . .     15,825          669            --
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
                                          $   50,388   $   60,219    $  134,496
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
                                          ----------   ----------    ----------
_____________________
(1)  Amount includes the acquisition of seven residential
     projects from another homebuilder in December 1995.
(2)  Backlog is the number of units subject to pending sales contracts, some of
     which are subject to contingencies. Therefore, no assurances can be given
     that this backlog will result in actual sales. See Item 1, Business - Sales
     and Marketing.




RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

     The Company's business strategy in 1996 was based on increasing the number
of actively selling projects in California based on management's positive
outlook on the California housing markets. By increasing the number of projects,
management believed that opportunities existed to maximize the potential of
existing operations. During 1996, thirty new communities were opened bringing
the total number of actively selling projects to 44 at year-end. While the focus
in 1996 was on the California housing markets, Pacific Greystone also
successfully expanded its operations outside of California during 1996. In its
first full year of operations, the Company's operations outside of California
delivered 548 homes. 
     
     For Pacific Greystone, 1996 proved to be an excellent year, as the 
Company continued its strong performance with record growth in its principal 
market of California, as well as markets outside of California. The Company 
achieved a record year in both homes closed and net new orders by increasing 
the number of actively selling projects company-wide. Homes closed and net 
new orders excluding unconsolidated joint ventures were up 60% and 59%, 
respectively, compared with 1995. At December 31, 1996, backlog consisted of 
583 units with an aggregate sales value of $134.5 million, representing 79% 
and 123% increases, respectively, over comparable figures at the end of 1995.
     
     Pretax earnings increased to $33.3 million, up 90% from $17.5 million in
1995. The Company achieved record increases in both revenues and pretax earnings
with pretax earnings growth outpacing revenue growth. The strong performance was
attributable to a recovering California economy, which led to higher volumes,
improved margins and a lower selling, general and administrative ratio, as well
as the Company's successful expansion outside of California. For the year, the
gross margin percentage increased 200 basis points while the selling, general
and administrative ratio decreased 50 basis points. These results were
accomplished despite difficult weather conditions experienced in California at
the end of 1996.
     
     Lastly, Pacific Greystone successfully completed its initial public
offering (the "Offering") on June 20, 1996 raising $65 million. Net proceeds
from the Offering were used to redeem the Series A cumulative senior preferred
stock ("Series A Preferred") and the remainder to temporarily reduce amounts
outstanding under the Company's unsecured revolving credit facility (the
"Facility"). In addition, all outstanding shares of the Series C cumulative
convertible preferred stock were converted into common stock at a price equal to
80% of the initial offering price per share in the Offering.
     
     See Item 1, "Cautionary Statements" "-- Real Estate, Economic and Certain
Other Conditions," "-- Dependence on California Economy and Housing Markets," "-
- - Interest Rates; Mortgage Financing," "-- Competition," "-- Expansion into New
Markets, "-- Regulatory and Environmental Matters," "-- Variability of Results,"
"-- Access to Financing," and "--Dependence on Key Personnel."





     The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain income
statement data as a percentage of total revenues.


FISCAL YEAR 1996 COMPARED TO FISCAL YEAR 1995

     Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 1996 increased to
$420.0 million from $293.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1995, an
increase of 43%, while homes closed increased to 1,956 from 1,220, an increase
of 60%. The revenue growth is primarily attributable to the Southern California
region with revenues and homes closed increasing by 58% and 44%, respectively,
as compared with 1995. The Company's expansion outside of California accounted
for 14% of total revenues on 548 homes closed in its first full year of
operations. The Company's average sales price on homes closed for 1996 decreased
to $212,000 from $231,000 for 1995. This was due mainly to the lower-priced
homes closed outside of California, partially offset by a 6% increase in the
average sales price of homes closed in California. Revenues from land sales
totaling $5.6 million and $9.5 million were recorded for 1996 and 1995,
respectively.

     The gross margin increased to $74.4 million or 17.7% of revenues for 1996
from $46.1 million or 15.7% for 1995. The gross margin percentage has improved
due to lower sales incentives, particularly in the Southern California region,
as well as the Company's ability to raise sales prices on selected projects.
During the first half of last year, the gross margin percentage in California
was negatively impacted by the severe rain conditions in early 1995. The gross
margin for 1995 is net of reductions in housing inventory to net realizable
value of $1.9 million. No reductions were recorded in 1996 against the housing
inventory as a result of the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard ("SFAS") No. 121. See "Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements" below
for further discussion.  The gross margin on land sales was $0.8 million for
1996 compared to $1.0 million in 1995.

     Joint ventures reported combined housing revenues of $1.0 million on five
homes closed for 1996 compared to $40.8 million on 154 homes closed for 1995.
During 1996, the Company had a $0.2 million equity loss on its unconsolidated
joint ventures compared to a $1.7 million pretax earnings for 1995. This
decrease can largely be attributed to the lower number of joint venture
closings. At December 31, 1996, there are no remaining joint venture housing
units. In the future, the Company may consider entering into joint venture
arrangements in areas of land scarcity or to diversify risk with capital
intensive projects.




     Selling, general and administrative expenses ("SG&A") as a percentage of
revenues decreased to 10.2% for 1996 from 10.7% for 1995. Selling expense as a
percentage of revenues for 1996 and 1995 was 5.4% and 5.7%, respectively. The
decline in selling expenses as a percentage of revenues is principally
attributable to decreased advertising costs as a percentage of revenues during
1996, as well as a higher 1996 revenue base. General and administrative expense
as a percentage of revenues for 1996 and 1995 was 4.8% and 5.0%, respectively.
The reduction in general and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues
is largely attributable to the increased revenues in 1996.
     
     Interest and other, net increased to $1.9 million for 1996 from
$1.2 million for 1995. Included in interest and other, net are pretax earnings
from the Company's mortgage operations; interest incurred, less amounts
capitalized to housing inventories; and interest income. For the years ended
December 31, 1996 and 1995, the Company incurred interest of $17.9 million and
$15.9 million and capitalized $17.5 million and $15.8 million, respectively, of
the interest incurred. The increase is due to an increase in earnings from the
Company's mortgage operations.

     The Company's effective tax rate was 40.8% and 14.3% for 1996 and 1995,
respectively. The effective tax rate for 1995 was impacted by a reduction in the
deferred tax asset valuation allowance. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8.

FISCAL YEAR 1995 COMPARED TO FISCAL YEAR 1994

     Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 1995 increased to
$293.9 million from $260.2 million for the year ended December 31, 1994. This
was accomplished despite difficult market conditions experienced in Southern
California and construction delays as a result of the unusually heavy rainfall
experienced during the first quarter of 1995. Housing revenues for 1995
increased to $284.4 million on 1,220 homes closed compared to $258.1 million on
1,012 homes closed in 1994. Housing revenues for 1995 increased due principally
to a 21% increase in the number of homes closed partially offset by an 8%
decline in the average sales price of homes closed from $252,000 in 1994 to
$231,000 in 1995. The decline in the average sales price was largely a result of
changes in the product mix and geographic location of homes closed. Revenues
from land sales were $9.5 million for 1995 compared to $2.1 million in 1994. The
Company's operations outside of California were not significant to the 1995
consolidated operating results.

     The gross margin was $46.1 million or 15.7% of revenues for 1995 compared
to $44.7 million or 17.2% of revenues in 1994. The decline in the gross margin
percent reflected higher sales incentives, particularly in Southern California,
and the impact of construction and processing delays from the first quarter 1995
rains. In fiscal year 1995, the gross margin in the Northern California region
exceeded the Southern California region as a result of stronger economic
conditions. The gross margin on land sales was $1.0 million for 1995 compared to
$0.1 million in 1994. Gross margin is net of reductions in housing inventory to
net realizable value of $1.9 million in 1995 and $2.0 million in 1994.

     Joint ventures reported combined housing revenues of $40.8 million on 154
homes closed for 1995, compared to $92.6 million on 319 homes closed in 1994.
Equity in pretax income of unconsolidated joint ventures was $1.7 million for
1995 compared to $2.6 million in 1994. This decrease can be largely attributable
to a lower number of joint venture closings and a $0.8 million loss recognized
principally on a joint venture land sale to an outside party. Partially
offsetting this decrease was a $0.9 million increase from the completion of a
joint venture project, however, this increase is a non-recurring event and is
not indicative of future profits upon the completion of joint venture projects. 




     Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues
decreased to 10.7% for 1995 from 11.2% in 1994. Selling expenses as a percentage
of revenues for 1995 and 1994 were 5.7% and 4.8%, respectively. The increase in
selling expense as a percent of revenues is principally attributable to
increased sales commissions and advertising costs required to stimulate housing
sales. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues for 1995
and 1994 were 5.0% and 6.4%, respectively. General and administrative expenses
as a percent of revenues decreased primarily due to a decrease in incentive
compensation expense which is based on operating results.

     Interest and other, net increased to $1.1 million for 1995 compared to
$0.4 million in 1994. For the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994, the
Company incurred interest of $15.9 million and $14.7 million and capitalized
$15.8 million and $14.2 million, respectively, of the interest incurred. The
increase is the result of a lower interest expense for 1995 as compared to 1994.

     The Company's effective tax rate was 14.3% and 0% for 1995 and 1994,
respectively. The effective tax rates were impacted during 1995 and 1994 by a
reduction in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance. See Note 8 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     The Company grew significantly in fiscal year 1996 while maintaining a
strong financial position. At December 31, 1996, the Company's debt to equity
ratio was 1.08 to 1.00 while the ratio of debt to total capital was 52%. Cash
and cash equivalents totaled $31.1 million at the end of 1996. The inventory
turnover ratio for the year ended December 31, 1996 improved to 1.29 from 1.14
for the comparable period in 1995, as a result of the increased number of homes
closed for 1996 as compared to 1995, as well as the Company's efforts to closely
monitor its housing inventory level.

     On June 20, 1996, the Company successfully completed its Offering of
5,000,000 shares of common stock including 4,562,900 shares sold by the Company.
The net proceeds from the Offering were used to redeem the Series A Preferred
and the remainder to temporarily reduce amounts outstanding under the Facility.
In addition, all outstanding shares of the Series C cumulative convertible
preferred stock were converted into common stock at a price equal to 80% of the
initial offering price per share in the Offering.

     The Company's principal cash requirements are for the acquisition,
development, construction and marketing of its residential projects.
Historically, these activities have been financed through internally generated
operating results and external sources of debt and equity financing.

     The Company's operating activities for 1996 and 1995 used $39.4 million 
and $19.7 million in cash, respectively. The Company used cash for 1996 to 
fund the following: $73.2 million in housing inventories and $3.8 million in 
other assets primarily from an increase in refundable utility deposits. The 
use of cash was partially offset by 1996 earnings of $19.7 million; $5.8 
million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities; and various noncash 
adjustments from net income totaling $12.1 million. The Company's housing 
inventory increased 40% to $301.9 million at December 31, 1996 from $215.0 
million at December 31, 1995, primarily due to the new project acquisitions.



     The 1995 sources of operating cash were earnings of $15.0 million; a $2.0
million decrease in housing inventories (excluding $9.1 million of housing
inventories acquired through seller financing); a $2.3 million increase in
accounts payable and other liabilities; and various noncash items from net
income totaling $1.5 million. These cash sources were partially offset by a $1.2
million increase in other assets resulting primarily from an increase in
refundable utility deposits. Housing inventories increased as the Company
purchased new projects and continued its construction development on existing
projects.

     Cash provided by investing activities was primarily distributions received
from the Company's investment in unconsolidated joint ventures totaling $4.5
million for 1995.

     Net cash flow received from financing activities for 1996 was
$21.4 million, while financing activities for 1995 used net cash flows of $11.7
million. The 1996 sources of financing were primarily the Offering and the
Facility providing net proceeds of $54.3 million and $30.0 million,
respectively. In 1995, cash was used largely to reduce the Facility's
outstanding borrowings to zero and to repay existing indebtedness, as a result
of the Company's strategy of maintaining liquidity during 1995. As the Company
continues to expand in its existing markets and evaluates opportunities to enter
new markets, it may eventually seek additional capital in the form of equity or
debt financing.

     On April 10, 1996, the Company increased its Facility commitment to $100
million from $60 million. The amended Facility also provides for lower borrowing
and administrative costs. Participants in the amended Facility include Bank of
America NT&SA; Guaranty Federal Bank, F.S.B.; and Bank of Boston. The amended
Facility extends the maturity date to July 31, 1999 and includes a provision for
a 12-month amortization of outstanding principal starting July 31, 1998.
Interest on borrowings is based on the bond rating on the 10 3/4% Senior Notes
(the "Notes") which was upgraded to B1 by Moody's Investors Service on June 3,
1996. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     At December  31, 1996, approximately $57.7 million was available for future
use under the provisions of the amended Facility. The Notes and the Facility, as
well as other construction and development loans, contain certain restrictive
covenants including limitations on additional indebtedness, minimum liquidity
and net worth requirements and limitations on the amount of debt to equity. The
indentures with respect to the Notes limit the ability of Greystone Homes, Inc.
("Greystone") to pay cash dividends or make loans and advances to the Company.
At December 31, 1996, under the terms of the indentures, Greystone could pay
cash dividends or make loans or advances to the Company in an amount of
$51.1 million. The Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the
Company. 

     The Company has utilized, and will continue to utilize, options as a method
of controlling and subsequently acquiring land. By controlling land, through
options on the future discretionary purchase of land, the Company attempts to
minimize its cash outlays and reduce its risk from changing market conditions.
While the Company attempts to prudently manage its acquisition and development
of residential lots, the development of such projects can have a negative impact
on liquidity due to the timing of acquisition and development activities. The
Company believes that cash on hand, cash generated from operations and funds
available under the Facility will be sufficient to meet the Company's working
capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 18 months. 
Currently, the Company does not have any material commitments for capital
expenditures.




BACKLOG

     Backlog is the number of units subject to pending sales contracts. Homes
are typically sold during construction using sales contracts which are usually
accompanied by cash deposits. Before entering into sales contracts, the Company
generally prequalifies its customers. Purchasers are permitted to cancel sales
contracts if they are unable to sell their existing homes or fail to qualify for
financing and under certain other circumstances. The Company experienced a
cancellation rate of 24% in 1994, 21% in 1995 and 25% in 1996. Although
cancellations can delay the sales of the Company's homes, they have not had a
material impact on sales, operations or liquidity since the Company closely
monitors the progress of prospective buyers in obtaining financing and monitors
and adjusts its start plans to better match the level of demand for its homes.
The Company does not recognize revenue on homes covered by pending sales
contracts until the sales are closed and the risk of ownership has been
transferred to the buyer.

     Backlog at December 31, 1996 consisted of 583 units with an aggregate 
sales value of $134.5 million, representing 79% and 123% increases, 
respectively, over comparable figures at December 31, 1995. The Company's 
Northern California region provided strong growth in backlog levels with the 
sales value increasing by 228% to $62.4 million on 212 units at December 31, 
1996 from $19 million on 68 units at December 31, 1995. This growth reflected 
a 63% increase in net new orders during the fourth quarter of 1996 over the 
comparable period in 1995. At December 31, 1996, the Company's operations 
outside of California accounted for 39% and 23% of the backlog units and 
sales value, respectively.

     The Company's backlog, including units from unconsolidated joint ventures,
as of December 31, 1995 consisted of 325 units representing aggregate future
housing revenues of approximately $60.2 million compared to 202 units
representing $50.4 million a year earlier. The increase in backlog in fiscal
year 1995 resulted from the Company's expansion into the Phoenix and Las Vegas
housing markets.

ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     The adoption of SFAS No. 121 has caused several publicly traded
homebuilders to write-off significant portions of their land inventory value.
From inception, the Company has implemented conservative land acquisition
policies designed to reduce the risks associated with changing market
conditions. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 121, the Company reviewed its
housing inventory, on a periodic basis, and recorded net realizable value
adjustments to specific projects as considered necessary. As a result, the
Company's implementation of SFAS No. 121, effective January 1, 1996, had no
impact on the Company's consolidated financial position and results of
operations in the current year.

     In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS
No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."  SFAS No. 123 establishes
financial accounting and reporting standards for stock-based employee
compensation plans, such as stock option plans. The Company elected to adopt the
expanded disclosures provisions of SFAS No. 123.




SELECTED UNAUDITED QUARTERLY OPERATING DATA

     The homebuilding industry is seasonal. Generally, new orders are higher in
the spring and summer with closings, and therefore revenues, being higher in the
fall. The following table presents selected quarterly operating data of the
Company for each of the eight quarters in the period ended December 31, 1996. In
the opinion of management, all necessary adjustments (consisting of normal
recurring adjustments) have been included to present fairly the unaudited
selected quarterly operating data. This data is not necessarily indicative of
the results of operations of the Company for any future period. See 
"Cautionary Statements -- Variability of Results."

____________________
(1)  Includes consolidated and unconsolidated projects.
(2)  Amount inlcudes the acquisition of seven residential
     projects from another homebuilder in December 1995.
(3)  Backlog is the number of units subject to pending sales contracts, some of
     which are subject to contingencies. Therefore, no assurances can be given
     that this backlog will result in actual sales. See Item 1, Business - Sales
     and Marketing.



INTEREST RATES AND INFLATION

     The residential homebuilding industry is affected by changes in general
economic factors, particularly by the impact of inflation and its effect on
interest rates. Inflation can adversely affect the rates on funds borrowed by
the Company and the affordability of permanent mortgage financing available to
prospective customers. See Item 1. "Business - Cautionary Statements - Interest
Rates; Mortgage Financing."

     Increased construction costs, rising interest rates, as well as increased
material and labor costs, may reduce gross margins in the short-term, however,
the Company attempts to recover the increased costs through increased sales
prices without reducing sales volume. Inflation has not had a significant
adverse effect on the Company's results of operations presented herein. However,
there can be no assurance that inflation will not have a material adverse impact
on the Company's future results of operations.















                      [This page intentionally left blank]












ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.



                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Pacific Greystone Corporation

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Pacific
Greystone Corporation as of December 31, 1995 and 1996, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1996. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Pacific
Greystone Corporation at December 31, 1995 and 1996, and the consolidated
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.



                                           /S/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Los Angeles, California
January 24, 1997




                          PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                      (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)




                                                                             
                                                     Year Ended December 31,
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                   1994       1995       1996
                                                 --------  ---------  ----------
Revenues. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $260,185  $ 293,921  $ 420,021
Cost of sales . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (215,437)  (247,827)  (345,666)
                                                 --------  ---------  ----------
Gross margin. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44,748     46,094     74,355
Equity in pretax income (loss) of 
  unconsolidatedjoint ventures. . . . . . . . .     2,581      1,742       (227)
Selling, general and administrative expenses. .   (29,059)   (31,468)   (42,726)
Interest and other, net . . . . . . . . . . . .       388      1,162      1,858
                                                 --------  ---------  ----------
Pretax income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18,658     17,530     33,260
Provision for income taxes. . . . . . . . . . .        --     (2,512)   (13,570)
                                                 --------  ---------  ----------
Net income. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $ 18,658  $  15,018  $  19,690
                                                 --------  ---------  ----------
                                                 --------  ---------  ----------
Pro forma earnings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            $  10,378  $  19,690
                                                           ---------  ----------
                                                           ---------  ----------
Pro forma earnings per share. . . . . . . . . .            $    0.69  $    1.32
                                                           ---------  ----------
                                                           ---------  ----------
Pro forma weighted average number of shares 
outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               14,955     14,960
                                                           ---------  ----------
                                                           ---------  ----------

                             See accompanying notes.



                          PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                      (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AMOUNTS)


                                       ASSETS

                                                            December 31,
                                                   -----------------------------
                                                       1995             1996
                                                   ------------     ------------
Cash and cash equivalents. . . . . . . . . .       $    49,294      $    31,142
Housing inventories. . . . . . . . . . . . .           215,043          301,934
Deferred tax asset . . . . . . . . . . . . .            15,498            4,480
Other assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            10,135           12,913
                                                   ------------     ------------
  Total assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       $   289,970      $   350,469
                                                   ------------     ------------
                                                   ------------     ------------

                         LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Liabilities:
 Accounts payable and other liabilities. . .       $    26,738      $    32,532
 Notes payable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            12,337           40,254
 Senior unsecured notes payable. . . . . . .           125,000          125,000
                                                   ------------     ------------
   Total liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . .           164,075          197,786


Shareholders' equity:
 Series A cumulative senior preferred 
   stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            44,747               --
 Series C cumulative convertible 
   preferred stock . . . . . . . . . . . . .            20,000               --
 Common stock, $.01 par value; 
   35,000,000 shares authorized, 
   14,959,741 shares issued and 
   outstanding in 1996 . . . . . . . . . . .                41              150
 Additional paid-in capital. . . . . . . . .            27,898          132,482
 Retained earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . .            33,209           20,051
                                                   ------------     ------------
   Total shareholders' equity. . . . . . . .           125,895          152,683
                                                   ------------     ------------
     Total liabilities and shareholders'
       equity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        $  289,970      $   350,469
                                                   ------------     ------------
                                                   ------------     ------------

                             See accompanying notes.




                          PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)




                                See accompanying notes.




                          PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)


                             See accompanying notes.




1.    FORMATION OF COMPANY

     Pacific Greystone Corporation (the "Company") is a leading regional builder
of high quality, single family homes primarily targeted to first time and move-
up homebuyers in infill and emerging markets located throughout Northern and
Southern California, as well as Las Vegas and Phoenix. The Company also provides
mortgage brokerage services to its customers.

     The Company was founded on October 10, 1991 by senior management and
Warburg, Pincus Investors, L.P. Since inception, the Company has expanded its
presence in Northern and Southern California through start-up operations in new
markets. In December 1995, the Company expanded into the Las Vegas, Nevada and
Phoenix, Arizona markets through the acquisition of seven residential projects
from another homebuilder.

     On June 20, 1996, the Company completed its initial public offering (the
"Offering") and sold 5,000,000 shares of common stock, including 4,562,900 and
437,100 shares sold by the Company and certain stockholders of the Company,
respectively. The Offering was priced at $13.00 per share and the net proceeds
were used to redeem the Series A cumulative senior preferred stock ("Series A
Preferred") and the remainder to temporarily reduce amounts outstanding under
the revolving credit facility.

     In connection with the Offering, the Company declared a dividend on the
Series A Preferred equal to the accrued dividends thereon to the date of the
closing of the Offering. The Company and holders of the Series A Preferred
agreed that accrued dividends through March 31, 1996, aggregating approximately
$20,548,000, would be paid through the issuance of common stock valued at a per
share price equal to the initial offering price per share in the Offering less
underwriting discounts and commissions. Dividends on the Series A Preferred from
April 1, 1996 to the closing of the Offering, aggregating approximately
$1,650,000, were paid in cash. In addition, all outstanding shares of the Series
C cumulative convertible preferred stock ("Series C Preferred") plus accrued
dividends thereon through March 31, 1996 were converted into common stock at a
price equal to 80% of the initial offering price per share in the Offering.
Dividends on the Series C Preferred from April 1, 1996 to the closing of the
Offering aggregating approximately $821,000, were paid in cash.

2.    ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
     The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
the Company and all wholly-owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany accounts
and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Investments in joint
ventures which are not effectively controlled by the Company are accounted for
using the equity method. The accounting policies of the joint ventures are
substantially the same as those of the Company.

     CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
      The Company considers all highly liquid investments with a maturity of 
three months or less when purchased and amounts in-transit from escrow 
accounts to be cash equivalents.  The Company estimates that the market value 
of these investments approximates their book value.




2.    ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

     HOUSING INVENTORIES
     The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ("SFAS") No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of" effective January 1, 1996. In
accordance with this pronouncement, the Company records impairment losses on
long-lived assets held and used in operations when indicators of impairment are
present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those
assets are less than their related carrying amounts. The adoption of SFAS No.
121 had no impact on the Company's consolidated financial position and results
of operations in the current year.

     Prior to January 1, 1996, housing inventories were stated at the lower of
cost or estimated net realizable value for each project. Estimated net
realizable value was based upon management's evaluation of the net sales
proceeds anticipated in the normal course of business, less estimated costs to
complete or improve the property to the condition used in determining the
estimated selling price given current economic conditions and those expected
throughout the development and selling period. Management's assessment of net
realizable value incorporated a thorough assessment of the Company's liquidity
and capital resources. For the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1995, cost of
sales included approximately $2,000,000 and $1,900,000, respectively, for
reductions in housing inventories to net realizable value.

     Housing revenues are recognized when homes are completed and ownership has
transferred to the customer. Cost of sales is comprised of direct and allocated
costs including estimated future costs for warranty. Land, land improvements and
other common costs are generally allocated to units within a project.
Development costs include interest and other carrying costs incurred until
development is substantially complete.

     INCOME TAXES
     The Company accounts for income taxes using SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for
Income Taxes."  Among other things, SFAS No. 109 requires the liability method
and that current and deferred tax balances be determined based on tax rates and
laws enacted as of the balance sheet date rather than the historical tax rates.

     HISTORICAL PER SHARE DATA
     Historical per share data calculated in accordance with APB No. 15,
"Earnings Per Share," was not presented on the statements of income since such
data was not considered relevant to the new common shareholders. In calculating
historical per share data under APB No. 15, the preferred dividend requirements
were deducted from net income and the weighted average number of shares
outstanding were adjusted to give effect to the Offering and the stock split as
discussed in Note 9. Historical per share data was $1.36 for the year ended
December 31, 1996. The computation of historical per share is based on the
weighted average number of common shares and common share equivalents
outstanding of 10,701,000 in 1996.

     STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS
     The Company has elected to follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion
("APB") No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and related
Interpretations in accounting for its stock options since the alternative fair
value accounting provided for under SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation," requires use of option valuation models that were not developed
for use in valuing non-traded stock options.  Under APB No. 25, because the
exercise price of the Company's stock options equals the market price of the
underlying stock on the date of grant, no compensation expense is recognized.



                                       


                         PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

2.   ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

     USE OF ESTIMATES
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and 
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and 
accompanying notes. Estimates made by management relate primarily to 
accruals, including warranty, project budgets, and the valuation of certain 
real estate. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     RECLASSIFICATIONS
     Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current
year presentation.

3.   PRO FORMA DATA

     PRO FORMA EARNINGS
     Pro forma earnings for purposes of this calculation is historical pretax
income less an assumed provision for income taxes at an effective tax rate of
40.8% and excludes the effect of the preferred dividend requirements.

     PRO FORMA WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF SHARES OUTSTANDING
     Pro forma weighted average number of shares outstanding was calculated as
if (a) the Offering was consummated on January 1, 1995 and (b) the changes in
the capital structure discussed in Note 1 and Note 9 occurred on such date.

4.   HOUSING INVENTORIES

     As of December 31, 1995 and 1996, the finished homes and completed model
portion of housing inventories was approximately $52,519,000 and $75,189,000,
respectively. An analysis of interest incurred is as follows:





                   PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)


5.   INVESTMENTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURES

     Summarized combined financial information of the Company's investments in
unconsolidated joint ventures accounted for using the equity method is as
follows:

                         SUMMARY COMBINED BALANCE SHEETS


                                                DECEMBER 31,
                                       -------------------------------
                                              1995          1996
                                       -------------     -------------
                                               (In thousands)
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents.............     $  4,001         $  940
Housing inventories...................          119             --
Other assets..........................          338             --
                                       -------------     -------------
  Total assets........................     $  4,458         $  940
                                       -------------     -------------
                                       -------------     -------------

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Liabilities...........................     $  1,920         $  720
Equity:
  The Company.........................          280            170
  Others..............................        2,258             50
                                       -------------     -------------
      Total liabilities and equity....     $  4,458         $  940
                                       -------------     -------------
                                       -------------     -------------


                      SUMMARY COMBINED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                                        


     The Company's interest in earnings of its joint venture investments ranges
from 25% to 50%. The joint venture agreements generally provide that the first
cash distributions from operations are to be distributed to repay capital
contributions, loans or advances and thereafter all cash is to be distributed
in accordance with the earnings and loss sharing ratios.




                         PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)


5.   INVESTMENTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURES (CONTINUED)

     The Company receives a fee for management services it renders to its joint
ventures. The fees are intended to compensate the Company for its efforts on
behalf of the joint ventures and are included in the Company's revenues. The
amount of management fees recognized for the years ended December 31, 1994 and
1995 is approximately $2,139,000 and $1,005,000, respectively. No management
fee was recognized for the year ended December 31, 1996.

     The Company guarantees, on an unsecured basis, certain debt of its joint
ventures which is secured by land and improvements. At December 31, 1995,
approximately $325,000 was guaranteed by the Company. At December 31, 1996, the
Company had no liability for such obligations.

6.   NOTES PAYABLE

     Notes payable consist of the following:

                                                DECEMBER 31,
                                       -------------------------------
                                              1995          1996
                                       -------------     -------------
                                               (In thousands)
Unsecured revolving credit facility..    $     --         $  30,000
Notes secured by trust deeds; 
   interest payable at 8% to 10%.....      10,287            10,254
Assessment bond liabilities; 
   interest payable at 6.0% to 7.9%..       2,050                --
                                       -------------     -------------
Total notes payable..................   $  12,337         $  40,254
                                       -------------     -------------
                                       -------------     -------------


     Terms under the unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Facility") dated
June 28, 1994 and as amended on July 24, 1995 and April 10, 1996 provide for a
total commitment not to exceed $100,000,000. The Facility matures July 31, 1999
and includes a provision for a 12-month amortization of outstanding principal
starting July 31, 1998. The Facility provides for interest on borrowings at
either the Bank Reference Rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate plus an
applicable spread based on the Company's senior long-term debt rating. A
quarterly commitment fee of .125% on the unused portion is payable quarterly in
arrears.

     The Facility provides for various covenants and restrictions, including
minimum liquidity and net worth requirements and limitations on the amount of
debt to equity. The Company is able to draw against the Facility based on
housing inventory borrowing base levels. The Company is not required to pay
down the line from each home closing. The Company had $57,691,000 available
under the Facility for future use at December 31, 1996.

     Housing inventories having a carrying value of $25,478,000 and $32,308,000
at December 31, 1995 and 1996, respectively, are pledged to collateralize
secured loans. The Company estimates that the market value of its notes payable
approximates their stated book value.

     Principal payments on the above notes are due as follows:
1997, $9,210,000; 1998, $15,033,000; 1999, $15,036,000; 2000, $39,000; and
$936,000 thereafter. The Company's weighted average interest rate on short-term
borrowings was 8.0% and 8.5% as of December 31, 1995 and 1996, respectively.



                         PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

7.   SENIOR UNSECURED NOTES PAYABLE

     On March 10, 1994, the Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary,
Greystone Homes, Inc. ("Greystone"), sold in a private placement $125,000,000
aggregate principal amount of 10 3/4% Senior Notes (the "Notes"). The Notes were
subsequently registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

     The Notes are due March 1, 2004 with interest payable semi-annually. The
Company may, at its option, redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at any time
on or after March 1, 1999, initially at 105.375% of the principal amount
thereof, declining to 100% of the principal amount thereof on or after March 1,
2001. The Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of Greystone, ranking
pari passu in right of payment with all existing and future unsecured
indebtedness that is not, by its terms, expressly subordinated in right of
payment to the Notes. The Notes contain certain restrictive covenants including
limitations on additional indebtedness. The indentures with respect to the
Notes limit the ability of Greystone to pay cash dividends or make loans and
advances to the Company. Under the terms of the indentures, Greystone could pay
cash dividends or make loans or advances to the Company in an amount of
$51,075,000 at December 31, 1996. The Notes are fully and unconditionally
guaranteed by the Company. The market value of the Notes approximates their
book value.

8.   INCOME TAXES

     Included in the table below is the provision for income taxes:



     Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The significant
components of the Company's deferred tax asset are as follows:






                         PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)


8.   INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)

     SFAS No. 109 requires the reduction of the deferred tax asset by a
valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more
likely than not that a portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be
realized. For the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1995, the Company reduced
its valuation allowance by $7,496,000 and $4,500,000, respectively, due to the
increased visibility of anticipated future income. The Company has established
a $1,500,000 valuation allowance for capital loss carryforwards which currently
are not expected to be utilized. Based on the weight of available evidence, in
the opinion of the Company's management, the Company will more likely than not
generate sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the net deferred tax asset.

     The reconciliation of income tax attributable to continuing operations
computed at the applicable statutory tax rates to income tax expense is as
follows:




9.   STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     The Board of Directors authorized a 1.4282 to 1.00 stock split of the
Company's common stock immediately prior to the Offering. The Company's par
value of $.01 remained unchanged and an amount equal to the par value of the
shares outstanding prior to the Offering has been transferred from additional
paid-in capital to common stock. In addition, the authorized number of common
shares were increased from 5,000,000 to 35,000,000 while the preferred shares
were decreased from 7,100,000 to 5,000,000. All references in the financial
statements to number of shares and per share amounts have been restated to
reflect the stock split. At December 31, 1995 and 1996, the Company had 
5,829,074, after adjusting for a 1.4282 to 1.00 stock split, and 14,959,741 
common shares outstanding, respectively.

     In conjunction with the issuance of the Notes, the holders of the Series B
cumulative convertible preferred stock ("Series B Preferred") converted the
2,559,260 shares of Series B Preferred then outstanding into common shares on a
share-for-share basis. There were no dividends declared or paid on the Series B
Preferred.




                         PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

10.  STOCK OPTIONS

     The Company has a 1996 stock option and award plan (the "Plan") to grant
options and other awards to employees. The Plan provides for the granting of a
maximum of 825,000 shares subject to options or other awards. On June 20, 1996,
299,195 stock options were awarded to certain executive officers of the Company
pursuant to the Plan. These options were first exercisable on December 20, 1996
and expire on June 20, 2006. On June 24, 1996, additional options to purchase
an aggregate of 295,000 shares were granted to other management of the Company.
These options have a term of ten years and will vest in equal annual
installments over three years. All stock options were granted at the initial
offering price to the public in the Offering.  During 1996, 16,000 stock
options were canceled.

  Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required
by SFAS No. 123, and has been determined as if the Company had accounted for
its stock options under the fair value method under SFAS No. 123.  The fair
value for these options was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-
Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions
for 1996: risk-free interest rates of 6.11%; dividend yields of 0%, volatility
factors of the expected market price of the Company's common stock of .384; and
a weighted-average expected life of the options of 3 years.

     The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in
estimating the fair value of traded options that require the input of highly
subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility.  Since
the Company's stock options have characteristics significantly different from
those of traded options, and since changes in the subjective input assumptions
can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management's opinion, the
existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the
fair value of its stock options.

     For purposes of SFAS No. 123 pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair
value of the options is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period.
The Company's 1996 pro forma information is as follows: pro forma net income
under SFAS No. 123:  $13,744,000; weighted average number of common shares and
common shares equivalents outstanding: 10,701,000 and pro forma earnings per
share under SFAS No. 123: $1.28. The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 to the
Company's stock-based awards for 1995 results in net income and earnings per
share that are not materially different from the reported amount.

     A summary of the Company's stock option activity, and related information
for the year ended December 31, 1996 is as follows:

                                  Options              Weighted-Average
                                 (in 000s)              Exercise Price
                                 -----------           -----------------
Outstanding-beginning of year....     14                      $  1.83
Granted..........................    594                        13.00
Exercised........................      -                            -
Forfeited........................    (16)                       13.00
                                  ---------
Outstanding-end of year..........    592                     $  12.73
                                  ---------
                                  ---------
Exercisable-end of year..........    304                     $  12.82
                                  ---------
                                  ---------
Weighted-average fair value of 
   options granted under 
   SFAS No. 123 during the year..     --                     $   3.93




                         PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

11.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     The Company has entered into agreements to lease certain office facilities
under operating leases which expire at various dates through 1998. Future
minimum payments under the noncancelable leases having an initial or remaining
term in excess of one year are as follows: 1997, $1,141,000; 1998, $260,000;
and 1999, $105,000. Total rent expense for the years ended December 31, 1994,
1995 and 1996, was $969,000, $877,000 and $1,097,000, respectively.

     At December 31, 1995 and 1996, the Company had outstanding performance
bonds with an estimated potential obligation of $20,117,000 and $37,334,000,
respectively, related principally to its obligations for site improvements at
various projects. The Company does not believe that any such bonds are likely
to be drawn upon.

     David Kaplan, a director of the Company, was a principal with Victor
Capital Group, L.P. in 1995. The Company engaged Victor Capital Group, L.P. to
assist in the development of the Company's long-term strategic plan. The
Company made payments in 1995 totaling $160,000 for consulting services
rendered. The Company paid $85,000 to the Autumn Hill Group for similar
consulting services rendered in 1996. David Kaplan is a principal at the 
Autumn Hill Group.

     Commitments and contingencies include the usual obligations of
homebuilders for the completion of contracts and those incurred in the  ordinary
course of  business. The Company is also involved in routine litigation arising
in the ordinary course of its business. In the opinion of the Company's
management, none of the pending litigation will have a material adverse effect
on the Company's consolidated financial condition or results of operations.



                         PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

12.   SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON GREYSTONE HOMES, INC.

     Summarized consolidated financial information for Greystone is presented
below. In accordance with the Company's management agreement, corporate general
and administrative expenses are allocated based upon the gross revenues of the
companies. Such allocation of corporate general and administrative expenses is
included in Greystone's selling, general and administrative expenses presented
below.

                       SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                                             DECEMBER 31,
                                                        ------------------------
                                                          1995            1996
                                                        ---------      ---------
                                                             (In thousands)
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                              $  40,013      $  22,594
Housing inventories                                      215,043        301,934
Deferred tax asset                                        15,498          4,480
Other assets                                               9,668         12,554
                                                       ---------      ---------
     Total assets                                      $ 280,222      $ 341,562
                                                       ---------      ---------
                                                       ---------      ---------

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY
Accounts payable and other liabilities                 $  21,200      $  24,011
Intercompany payable to the Company                        2,314          3,675
Notes payable                                             12,337         40,254
Senior unsecured notes payable                           125,000        125,000
                                                       ---------      ---------
     Total liabilities                                   160,851        192,940
Shareholder's equity                                     119,371        148,622
                                                       ---------      ---------
     Total liabilities and shareholder's equity
                                                       $ 280,222      $ 341,562
                                                       ---------      ---------
                                                       ---------      ---------

                    SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME







                         PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

12.   SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON GREYSTONE HOMES, INC.

     Greystone is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and is the obligor
on the Notes. The Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the
Company, except for certain subsidiaries of the Company which are considered
inconsequential individually and in the aggregate to the Company on a
consolidated basis. Separate financial statements and other related disclosures
for Greystone are not presented, as the Company's management does not consider
the information material to investors.

     In September 1995, all the subsidiaries of Greystone were merged into
Greystone's operations. Accordingly, the requirements of Rule 1-02 (aa) of
Regulation S-X for certain information and summarized combined financial
statements no longer apply.

13.  SELECTED UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA

     Unaudited quarterly financial data for the years ended December 31, 1995
and 1996 is summarized as follows:







ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.

                                   PART III

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     The information required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is set forth in the
Company's 1997 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement which will be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 31,
1996 except for the information regarding the executive officers of the
Company, which is included in Part I on page 17 herein.  The Company's 1997
Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, exclusive of the information set forth under
the captions "Report of the Compensation Committee" and "Company Performance,"
are incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K is set forth in the
Company's 1997 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement which will be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 31,
1996.  The Company's 1997 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, exclusive of the
information set forth under the captions "Report of the Compensation Committee"
and "Company Performance," are incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K is set forth in the
Company's 1997 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement which will be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 31,
1996.  The Company's 1997 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, exclusive of the
information set forth under the captions "Report of the Compensation Committee"
and "Company Performance," are incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEMS 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     The information required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K is set forth in the
Company's 1997 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement which will be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 31,
1996.  The Company's 1997 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement, exclusive of the
information set forth under the captions "Report of the Compensation Committee"
and "Company Performance," are incorporated herein by this reference.




                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(A)   1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

     The following required information is included herein on pages 31 - 46 of
this Report:

   Report of Independent Auditors
   
   Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period
   ended December 31, 1996
   
   Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1995 and 1996
   
   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for each of the three years
     in the period ended December 31, 1996
   
   Consolidated statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the
   period ended December 31, 1996
   
   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

       2. FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.

 Financial statement schedules have been omitted. The information required is
 presented herein in the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages
 36 - 46 of this Report.

       3. EXHIBITS.

Exhibit
 Number                               Description
- -------                               -----------

 3.1(f)  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company.
 3.2(f)  Bylaws of the Company.
 3.3(f)  Amendments to the Bylaws of the Company.
 4.1(b)  Indenture, dated as of March 1, 1994, among Greystone Homes, Inc., 
         Pacific Greystone Corporation, HLDC Acquisition Corp., Stonegrey 
         Corporation, PGC Holdings, Inc., A-M Homes, a California Limited 
         Partnership and U.S. Trust Company of California, N.A., as Trustee, 
         relating to the 10 3/4% Senior Notes due March 1, 2004 of Greystone 
         Homes, Inc.
 4.2     The Registrant agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange 
         Commission upon request copies of all instruments defining the 
         rights of holders of long-term debt of the Registrant and its 
         consolidated subsidiaries.
10.1(a)  First Amended and Restated Shareholders' Agreement and Irrevocable 
         Proxy, dated as of September 28, 1992, by and among the Company and 
         certain shareholders.
10.2(a)  Office Space Lease, dated December 12, 1988, between Downey Savings 
         and Loan Association and A-M Homes, a California Limited 
         Partnership, with respect to the property located at 3501 Jamboree 
         Road, Newport Beach.
10.3(a)  Office Lease, dated December 21, 1992, between Toluca Plaza Company 
         and the Company, with respect to the Company's corporate executive 
         offices located at 6767 Forest Lawn Drive, Los Angeles, California.
10.4(d)  Employment Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1996, between the 
         Company and Jack R. Harter.(1)
10.5(d)  Employment Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1996, between the 
         Company and Antonio B. Mon.(1)
10.6(b)  Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of June 28, 1994, between Bank 
         of America National Trust and Savings Association, as lender, and 
         Greystone Homes, Inc. and A-M Homes, a California Limited 
         Partnership, as borrower.




Exhibit
 Number                               Description
- -------                               -----------

10.7(c)  Modification Agreement dated July 24, 1995 to the Revolving Credit 
         Agreement between Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
         Association, as lender, and Greystone Homes, Inc. and A-M Homes, a 
         California Limited Partnership, as borrower.
10.8(e)  Second Modification Agreement dated April 4, 1996 to the Revolving 
         Credit Agreement between Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
         Association, as lender, and Greystone Homes, Inc., as borrower.
10.9(e)  Co-Lending Agreement dated April 4, 1996 to the Revolving Credit 
         Agreement between Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
         Association, as the agent for certain lenders, and Greystone Homes, 
         Inc., as borrower.
10.8(c)  Amendment No. 1 to the First Amended and Restated Shareholders' 
         Agreement and Irrevocable Proxy.
10.9(c)  1995 Eligible Directors' Stock Option Plan.(1)
10.10(f) Agreement between the Company and Warburg, Pincus Investors, L.P.
10.11(g) Amended and Restated 1995 Eligible Directors' Stock Option Plan.(1)
10.12(h) 1996 Employee Stock Option and Award Plan.(1)
10.13(i) 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.(1)
21       List of Subsidiaries.
23       Consent of Independent Auditors.
27       Financial Data Schedule.

- -------------------------
(a) Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement No. 33-76628 on
    Form S-4 and incorporated herein by reference.

(b) Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
    period ended June 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference.

(c) Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
    period ended September 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

(d) Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
    fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

(e) Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
    period ended March 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

(f) Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
    period ended June 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

(g) Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement No. 333-07117
    on Form S-8 dated June 28, 1996, and incorporated by reference herein.

(h) Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement No. 333-07115
    on Form S-8 dated June 28, 1996, and incorporated by reference herein.

(i) Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement No. 333-06985
    on Form S-8 dated June 27, 1996, and incorporated by reference herein.

(1) Management contract, compensation plan or arrangement required to be
    identified pursuant to Item 14(a) (3) of this Report.

(B)       REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

    No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended December 31,
    1996.













                     [This page intentionally left blank]











                                  SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                PACIFIC GREYSTONE CORPORATION


February 11, 1997               /s/ Jack R. Harter
                                -----------------------------------------------
                                Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


February 11, 1997               /s/ Jack R. Harter
                                -----------------------------------------------
                                Jack R. Harter
                                Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

February 11, 1997               /s/ Antonio B. Mon
                                -----------------------------------------------
                                Antonio B. Mon
                                Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer

February 11, 1997               /s/ Bruce E. Gross
                                -----------------------------------------------
                                Bruce E. Gross
                                Senior Vice President, Controller and Treasurer
                                (Chief Accounting Officer)

February 11, 1997               /s/ Sidney Lapidus
                                -----------------------------------------------
                                Sidney Lapidus
                                Director

February 11, 1997               /s/ Reuben S. Leibowitz
                                -----------------------------------------------
                                Reuben S. Leibowitz
                                Director

February 11, 1997
                                -----------------------------------------------
                                John D. Santoleri
                                Director

February 11, 1997               /s/ David Kaplan
                                -----------------------------------------------
                                David Kaplan
                                Director




