ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Wells Fargo & Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware and a financial holding
company and a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as
amended (BHC Act). Its principal business is to act as a holding company for its subsidiaries.
References in this report to “the Parent” mean the holding company. References to “we,” “our,” “us”
or “the Company” mean the holding company and its subsidiaries that are consolidated for financial
reporting purposes.

On December 31, 2008, we acquired Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia) in a transaction valued at $12.5
billion to Wachovia common stockholders. Wachovia, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, was one of
the nation’s largest diversified financial services companies, providing a broad range of retail
banking, asset and wealth management, and corporate and investment banking products and services to
customers through 3,300 financial centers in 21 states from Connecticut to Florida and west to
Texas and California. It also provided nationwide retail brokerage, mortgage lending and auto
finance businesses.

At December 31, 2010, we had assets of $1.3 trillion, loans of $757 billion, deposits of $848
billion and stockholders’ equity of $126 billion. Based on assets, we were the fourth largest bank
holding company in the United States. At December 31, 2010, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. was the
Company’s principal subsidiary with assets of $1.1 trillion, or 88% of the Company’s assets.

At December 31, 2010, we had 272,200 active, full-time equivalent team members.

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports, are available free at www.wellsfargo.com (select “About Us,” then
“Investor Relations – More,” then “More SEC Filings”) as soon as reasonably practicable after they
are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They
are also available free on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.





DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

General

We are a diversified financial services company. We provide retail, commercial and corporate
banking services through banking stores located in 39 states and the District of Columbia:

AlabamaIowaNorth DakotaAlaskaKansasOhioArizonaMarylandOregonArkansasMichiganPennsylvaniaCaliforniaMinnesotaSouth CarolinaColoradoMississippiSouth DakotaConnecticutMontanaTennesseeDelawareNebraskaTexasFloridaNevadaUtahGeorgiaNew JerseyVirginiaIdahoNew MexicoWashingtonIllinoisNew YorkWisconsinIndianaNorth CarolinaWyoming

We provide other financial services through subsidiaries engaged in various businesses,
principally: wholesale banking, mortgage banking, consumer finance, equipment leasing, agricultural
finance, commercial finance, securities brokerage and investment banking, insurance agency and
brokerage services, computer and data processing services, trust services, investment advisory
services, mortgage-backed securities servicing and venture capital investment.

We have three operating segments for management reporting purposes: Community Banking; Wholesale
Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. The 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders includes
financial information and descriptions of these operating segments.

Competition

The financial services industry is highly competitive. Our subsidiaries compete with financial
services providers such as banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies,
mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, and mutual fund companies. They also face
increased competition from nonbank institutions such as brokerage houses, as well as from financial
services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Many of these competitors enjoy
fewer regulatory constraints and some may have lower cost structures.

Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may
acquire banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly
change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial services industry is
also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to
provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the importance of depository
institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties.





REGULATION AND SUPERVISION

We describe below, and in Notes 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and 25 (Regulatory and
Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements included in the 2010 Annual Report to
Stockholders, the material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to us. The description
is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations and
policies that are described. Banking statutes, regulations and policies are continually under
review by Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies, and a change
in them, including changes in how they are interpreted or implemented, could have a material effect
on our business. The regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies is intended to
protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system as a whole,
and not necessarily investors in bank holding companies such as the Company.

Statutes, regulations and policies could restrict our ability to diversify into other areas of
financial services, acquire depository institutions, and pay dividends on our capital stock. They
may also require us to provide financial support to one or more of our subsidiary banks, maintain
capital balances in excess of those desired by management, and pay higher deposit insurance
premiums as a result of a general deterioration in the financial condition of depository
institutions. See the “Risk Factors” section in the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders for
additional information.

General

Parent Bank Holding Company.As a bank holding company, the Parent is subject to regulation under
the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and supervision by its primary regulator, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board or FRB). The Parent is also subject
to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC. As a listed company
on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Parent is subject to the rules of the NYSE for listed
companies.

Subsidiary Banks.Our subsidiary national banks are subject to regulation and examination
primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and also by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the FRB. The foreign branches and representative offices of our
subsidiary national banks are subject to regulation and examination by their respective foreign
financial regulators as well as by the OCC and the FRB. Our state-chartered banks are subject to
primary federal regulation and examination by the FDIC and, in addition, are regulated and examined
by their respective state banking departments.

Nonbank Subsidiaries.Many of our nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FRB
and other applicable federal and state agencies. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to
regulation by applicable state insurance regulatory agencies, as well as the FRB. Our brokerage
subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and, in
some cases, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and state securities regulators. Our other
nonbank subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the federal government and/or
the various states as well as foreign countries in which they conduct business.





Parent Bank Holding Company Activities

“Financial in Nature” Requirement.We became a financial holding company effective March 13, 2000.
We continue to maintain our status as a bank holding company for purposes of other FRB regulations.
As a bank holding company that has elected to become a financial holding company pursuant to the
BHC Act, we may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other
activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are
financial in nature. “Financial in nature” activities include securities underwriting, dealing and
market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency;
merchant banking; and activities that the FRB, in consultation with the Secretary of the U.S.
Treasury, determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity.
“Complementary activities” are activities that the FRB determines upon application to be
complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a safety and soundness risk.

FRB approval is not required for us to acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank
or savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to
activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. Prior FRB approval is required
before we may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or
substantially all of the assets of a bank holding company, bank or savings association.

Because we are a financial holding company, if any of our subsidiary banks receives a rating under
the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (CRA), of less than satisfactory, we will be
prohibited, until the rating is raised to satisfactory or better, from engaging in new activities
or acquiring companies other than bank holding companies, banks or savings associations, except
that we could engage in new activities, or acquire companies engaged in activities, that are
closely related to banking under the BHC Act. In addition, if the FRB finds that any of our
subsidiary banks is not well capitalized or well managed, we would be required to enter into an
agreement with the FRB to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements and which
may contain additional limitations or conditions. Until corrected, we could be prohibited from
engaging in any new activity or acquiring companies engaged in activities that are not closely
related to banking under the BHC Act without prior FRB approval. If we fail to correct any such
condition within a prescribed period, the FRB could order us to divest our banking subsidiaries or,
in the alternative, to cease engaging in activities other than those closely related to banking
under the BHC Act.

Interstate Banking. Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Act (Riegle-Neal Act),
a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state
requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to
exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company not control, prior to or
following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured
depository institutions nationwide or, unless the acquisition is the bank holding company’s initial
entry into the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or greater amount
set by the state).

The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, thereby creating interstate
branches. Banks are also permitted to acquire and to establish new branches in other states where
authorized under the laws of those states.





Regulatory Approval.In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank
regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition,
financial condition, and future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and
levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws
and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring
institution’s record of compliance under the CRA, and the effectiveness of the acquiring
institution in combating money laundering activities.

Dividend Restrictions

The Parent is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary banks and other
subsidiaries. A significant source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and
principal and interest on our debt is dividends from the Parent’s subsidiaries. Various federal and
state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Parent’s subsidiary
banks and certain other subsidiaries may pay without regulatory approval. Federal bank regulatory
agencies have the authority to prohibit the Parent’s subsidiary banks from engaging in unsafe or
unsound practices in conducting their businesses. The payment of dividends, depending on the
financial condition of the bank in question, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. The
ability of the Parent’s subsidiary banks to pay dividends in the future is currently, and could be
further, influenced by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines. For information about the
restrictions applicable to the Parent’s subsidiary banks, see Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend
Restrictions) to Financial Statements included in the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders.

SR 09-4 Applying Supervisory Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of Dividends,
Stock Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies,





Holding Company Structure

Transfer of Funds from Subsidiary Banks.The Parent’s subsidiary banks are subject to restrictions
under federal law that limit the transfer of funds or other items of value from such subsidiaries
to the Parent and its nonbank subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-called “covered
transactions.” In general, covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit,
investments and asset purchases, as well as certain other transactions involving the transfer of
value from a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate. Unless an
exemption applies, covered transactions by a subsidiary bank with a single affiliate are limited to
10% of the subsidiary bank’s capital and surplus and, with respect to all covered transactions with
affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary bank’s capital and surplus. Also, loans and
extensions of credit to affiliates generally are required to be secured by qualifying collateral. A
bank’s transactions with its nonbank affiliates are also generally required to be on arm’s length
terms.

Source of Strength.The FRB has a policy that a bank holding company is expected to act as a
source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate
circumstances, to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be
required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide the support.

The OCC may order an assessment of the Parent if the capital of one of its national bank
subsidiaries were to become impaired. If the Parent failed to pay the assessment within three
months, the OCC could order the sale of the Parent’s stock in the national bank to cover the
deficiency.

Capital loans by the Parent to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to
deposits and certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary bank. In addition, in the event of the
Parent’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the Parent to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain
the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a
priority of payment.

Depositor Preference.The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act) provides that, in the event of
the “liquidation or other resolution” of an insured depository institution, the claims of
depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors)
and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over
other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails,
insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of
unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including the Parent, with respect to any extensions of credit
they have made to such insured depository institution.

Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions.All of the Company’s subsidiary banks are insured
by the FDIC. FDIC-insured depository institutions can be held liable for any loss incurred, or
reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of an FDIC-insured depository
institution controlled by the same bank holding company, and for any assistance provided by the
FDIC to an FDIC-insured depository institution that is in danger of default and that is controlled
by the same bank holding company. “Default” means generally the appointment of a conservator or
receiver. “In danger of default” means generally the existence of certain conditions indicating
that a default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance.





Dodd-Frank Act

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), enacted on July 21,
2010, will result in broad changes to the U.S. financial system and is the most significant
financial reform legislation since the 1930s. Although much of the impact is not yet known, we
anticipate the Dodd-Frank Act will affect most of our businesses in some way, either directly
through regulation of specific activities or indirectly through regulation of concentration risks,
capital or liquidity. At the enterprise level, the many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act regarding
enhanced supervision and regulation of large banking organizations and other systemically
significant firms are expected to significantly increase our compliance and regulatory
requirements.

Capital Requirements

We are subject to regulatory capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB, which are
substantially similar to those imposed by the OCC and the FDIC on depository institutions within
their jurisdictions. Under these guidelines, a depository institution’s or a holding company’s
assets and certain specified off-balance sheet commitments and obligations are assigned to various
risk categories. Tier 1 capital is considered core capital and generally includes common
stockholders’ equity, qualifying preferred stock, and trust preferred securities, and
noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries, reduced by goodwill, net of related taxes,
certain intangible and other assets in excess of prescribed limitations, and adjusted for the
aggregate impact of certain items included in other comprehensive income. Total capital includes
Tier 1 capital, subordinated debt and other components that do not qualify for Tier 1 capital, and
the aggregate allowance for credit losses up to a specified percentage of risk-weighted assets. In
addition to measures of Tier 1 and Total capital, a further measure of capital, Tier 1 common
capital, reflects common equity and retained earnings, less goodwill and certain other deductions.





Under the Dodd-Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be excluded from the calculation of Tier
1 capital pursuant to a provision known as the Collins Amendment. We will be required to phase
existing trust preferred securities out of Tier 1 capital over three years beginning January 1,
2013. We expect proposed rules implementing the Collins Amendment to provide additional clarity
regarding the timing of the phase out.

National banks and bank holding companies currently are required to maintain Tier 1 and Total
capital equal to at least 4% and 8%, respectively, of their total risk-weighted assets (including
certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit). The risk-based capital rules
state that the capital requirements are minimum standards based primarily on broad credit-risk
considerations and do not take into account the other types of risk a banking organization may be
exposed to (e.g., interest rate, market, liquidity and operational risks). The FRB may, therefore,
set higher capital requirements for categories of banks (e.g. systematically important firms), or
for an individual bank as situations warrant. For example, holding companies experiencing internal
growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above
the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. For these
reasons, we are expected to operate with a capital position well above the minimum ratios, with the
amount of capital held to be determined by us through an internal capital assessment that
corresponds to our broad risk exposure.

The regulatory capital rules state that voting common stockholders’ equity should be the dominant
element within Tier 1 capital and that banking organizations should avoid overreliance on
non-common equity elements. During 2009, in conjunction with the FRB’s SCAP stress test process,
the ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets became significant as a measurement of
the predominance of common equity in Tier 1 capital. There is currently no mandated minimum ratio.





maximum cumulative reductions of required risk-based capital of 5% during the first year of
implementation, 10% in the second year and 15% in the third year. A banking organization will need
approval from its primary Federal regulator to move into each of the transitional floor periods,
and at the end of the third transitional floor period to move to full implementation. Wells Fargo
is implementing the advanced approach under Basel II, and has established a project management
infrastructure to implement the regulations and enter the parallel run in 2012 with regulatory
approval. Our delayed entry into the parallel run phase was approved by the FRB in 2010 as a result
of our acquisition of Wachovia.

In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have established minimum leverage (Tier 1 capital
to adjusted average total assets) guidelines for banks within their regulatory jurisdiction. These
guidelines provide for a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for banks that meet certain specified
criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure and the
highest regulatory rating. Institutions not meeting these criteria are required to maintain a
leverage ratio of 4%. Our Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratio as of
December 31, 2010, are included in Note 25 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to
Financial Statements included in the 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders. At December 31, 2010, the
Company and each of its subsidiary banks were “well capitalized” under the applicable regulatory
capital adequacy guidelines.

In July 2009, the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision published an additional set of international
guidelines for review known as Basel III, which were finalized in December 2010. The additional
guidelines were developed in response to the financial crisis of 2008 - 2010 and address many of
the weaknesses identified in the banking sector as contributing to the crisis, including excessive
leverage, inadequate and low quality capital and insufficient liquidity buffers. Basel III
fundamentals:

•raise the quality of capital so banks are better able to absorb losses on both a going
concern and gone concern basis;

•increase the risk coverage of the capital framework, specifically for trading
activities, securitizations, exposures to off-balance sheet vehicles, and counterparty
credit exposures arising from derivatives;

•raise the level of minimum capital requirements;

•establish an international leverage ratio;

•develop capital buffers; and

•raise standards for the supervisory review process (Pillar 2) and public disclosures
(Pillar 3).

The U.S. regulatory bodies are reviewing the final Basel III international standards and final U.S.
rulemaking is expected to be completed in 2011. Although uncertainty exists regarding the final
U.S. rules, we have used our best efforts to interpret and estimate the effects of Basel III on our
capital ratios.

In December 2010, the FRB determined to conduct a second stress test survey of the 19 original SCAP
participants to forecast capital levels for financial institutions under a FRB-defined set of
adverse economic assumptions. The stress test survey also required us to provide forecasts under
two additional firm-defined scenarios and provide a list of capital actions, including dividend
increases, share repurchases, and securities redemptions, that the Company would pursue if results
of the stress test survey were approved by the FRB. The Company
submitted its CPR by the January 7,
2011 deadline. The Company cannot guarantee whether or when the FRB
will approve its CPR or what
other conditions the FRB may impose in order for the Company to pursue its proposed capital
actions.





From time to time, the FRB and the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
propose changes and amendments to, and issue interpretations of, risk-based capital guidelines and
related reporting instructions. In addition, the FRB has closely monitored capital levels of the
institutions it supervises during the ongoing financial disruption, and may require such
institutions to modify capital levels based on FRB determinations. Such determinations, proposals
or interpretations could, if implemented in the future, affect our reported capital ratios and net
risk-adjusted assets.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions,
the FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and
soundness standards for institutions for which they are the primary federal regulator. The
standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure,
executive compensation and risk management. The agencies are authorized to take action against
institutions that fail to meet such standards.

The FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to take “prompt corrective action” with
respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. A
depository institution’s treatment for purposes of the prompt corrective action provisions will
depend upon how its capital levels compare to various capital measures and certain other factors,
as established by regulation.

Deposit Insurance Assessments

Our bank subsidiaries, including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., are members of the Deposit Insurance Fund
(DIF) maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits of our banks up to
prescribed limits for each depositor. The DIF was formed March 31, 2006, upon the merger of the
Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance
Reform Act of 2005 (the Act). The Act established a range of 1.15% to 1.50% within which the FDIC
board of directors may set the Designated Reserve Ratio (reserve ratio or DRR). The Act also
granted the FDIC Board the discretion to price deposit insurance according to risk for all insured
institutions regardless of the level of the reserve ratio.

The Dodd-Frank Act gave the FDIC greater discretion to manage the DIF, raised the minimum DRR to
1.35% and removed the upper limit. In October 2010, the FDIC Board adopted a Restoration Plan to
ensure that the DIF reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020, as required by the
Dodd-Frank Act. At the same time, the FDIC Board proposed a comprehensive, long-range plan for DIF
management. In December 2010, as part of the comprehensive plan, the FDIC Board adopted a final
rule to set the DRR at 2%, and in February 2011, the FDIC Board approved the remainder of the
comprehensive plan. The Restoration Plan foregoes a 3 basis point increase in the annual assessment
rates that was to take effect January 1, 2011.

To maintain the DIF, member institutions are assessed an insurance premium based on their deposits
(assessment base) and their institutional risk category (assessment rate). The FDIC determines an
institution’s risk category by combining its supervisory ratings with its financial ratios and
other risk measures. For large institutions (assets of $10 billion or more), the FDIC generally
determines risk by combining supervisory ratings, the institution’s long-term debt issuer ratings
and, beginning April 1, 2009, certain financial ratios.





On February 7, 2011, the FDIC Board approved a final rule on assessments, dividends, assessment
base and large bank pricing that will take effect on April 1, 2011. The final rule approves the
comprehensive plan for DIF management that was proposed in October 2010; changes the assessment
base for all institutions from deposits to average consolidated total assets minus average tangible
equity, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act; and modifies the risk-based assessment system for large
institutions. Under the final rule, risk categories and long-term debt issuer ratings are
eliminated as factors for determining an institution’s assessment rate. The new system combines
supervisory ratings and certain financial measures into two scorecards, one for most of the large
institutions and another for highly complex institutions (those that are very large and are
structurally and operationally complex or that pose unique challenges and risks in the case of
failure). The score received by an institution will be converted into an assessment rate for the
institution. The FDIC retains the ability to adjust the total score of large institutions based
upon quantitative or qualitative measures not adequately captured in the scorecards. We estimate
these changes will result in additional quarterly deposit insurance assessments of $40 million
(after tax) beginning with the second quarter of 2011.

All FDIC-insured depository institutions must also pay a quarterly assessment towards interest
payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, a federal corporation chartered under the
authority of the Federal Housing Finance Board. The bonds (commonly referred to as FICO bonds) were
issued to capitalize the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. FDIC-insured depository
institutions paid approximately 1.04 to 1.06 cents per $100 of assessable deposits in 2010. The
FDIC established the FICO assessment rate effective for first quarter 2011 at 1.02 cents annually
per $100 of assessable deposits. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company’s FDIC deposit
insurance assessments, including FICO assessments, totaled $1.2 billion.

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution’s deposit insurance upon a finding that the
institution’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in
unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition
enacted or imposed by the institution’s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for
one or more of our bank subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our earnings,
depending on the collective size of the particular banks involved.





Fiscal and Monetary Policies

Our business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the
federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which
regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Among the instruments of monetary
policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in United States government
securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions, (c) imposing
or changing reserve requirements against depository institutions’ deposits, and (d) imposing or
changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These
methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank
loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The
policies of the FRB may have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.

Privacy Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Restrictions on Cross-Selling

Federal banking regulators, as required under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the GLB Act), have
adopted rules limiting the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic
information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. The rules require disclosure of privacy
policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain
personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. The privacy provisions of the GLB Act affect
how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial services companies and
conveyed to outside vendors. Federal financial regulators have issued regulations under the Fair
and Accurate Credit Transactions Act that have the effect of increasing the length of the waiting
period, after privacy disclosures are provided to new customers, before information can be shared
among different affiliated companies for the purpose of cross-selling products and services between
those affiliated companies.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) implemented a broad range of corporate governance
and accounting measures to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for
accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by
improving the accuracy and reliability of disclosures under federal securities laws. We are subject
to Sarbanes-Oxley because we are required to file periodic reports with the SEC under the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Among other things, Sarbanes-Oxley and/or its implementing
regulations established membership requirements and additional responsibilities for our audit
committee, imposed restrictions on the relationship between us and our outside auditors (including
restrictions on the types of non-audit services our auditors may provide to us), imposed additional
responsibilities for our external financial statements on our chief executive officer and chief
financial officer, expanded the disclosure requirements for our corporate insiders, required our
management to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over
financial reporting, and required our auditors to issue a report on our internal control over
financial reporting.





Patriot Act

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and
Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (Patriot Act) is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law
enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to work together to combat terrorism on a variety
of fronts. The Patriot Act has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers,
dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act required us to
implement new or revised policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance,
suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The
Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in
combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.

Future Legislation or Regulation

In light of recent conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets and the U.S. and global
economy, legislators, the presidential administration and regulators have increased their focus on
the regulation of the financial services industry. Proposals that could substantially intensify the
regulation of the financial services industry have been and are expected to continue to be
introduced in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures and from applicable regulatory authorities.
These proposals may change banking statutes and regulation and our operating environment in
substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, these proposals could increase our cost of doing
business, affect our compensation structure, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the
competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial
institutions. We cannot predict whether any of these proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, the
effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on our business, results of operations
or financial condition.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be found in the 2010 Annual Report to
Stockholders under “Financial Review” and under “Financial Statements.” That information is incorporated into this item by reference.



