ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (“C.H. Robinson,” “the company,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is one of the
largest third party logistics companies in the world with 2011 consolidated total revenues of $10.3 billion. We are a service company. We provide freight transportation services and logistics solutions to companies of all sizes, in a wide variety of
industries. During 2011 we handled approximately 10 million shipments and worked with more than 37,000 active customers. We operate through a network of 235 offices, which we call branches, in North America, Europe, Asia, South America,
Australia, and the Middle East. We have developed global transportation and distribution networks to provide transportation and supply chain services worldwide. As a result, we have the capability of facilitating most aspects of the supply chain on
behalf of our customers.

As a third party logistics provider, we cultivate contractual relationships with a wide variety of transportation
companies, and utilize those relationships to efficiently and cost effectively transport our customers’ freight. We have contractual relationships with approximately 53,000 transportation companies, including motor carriers, railroads
(primarily intermodal service providers), air freight and ocean carriers. Depending on the needs of our customer and their supply chain requirements, we select and hire the appropriate transportation for each shipment. Our model enables us to be
flexible, provide solutions that optimize service for our customers, and minimize our asset utilization risk. As an integral part of our transportation services, we provide a wide range of value-added logistics services, such as freight
consolidation, supply chain consulting and analysis, optimization, and reporting.

In addition to transportation and logistics services, we
provide sourcing services (“Sourcing”) and fee-based payment services (“Payment Services”).

Our
Sourcing business is primarily the buying, selling, and marketing of fresh produce. It was our original business when we were founded in 1905. The foundation for much of our logistics expertise can be traced to our significant experience in handling
produce and temperature controlled commodities. We supply fresh produce through our network of independent produce growers and suppliers. Our customers include grocery retailers and restaurants, produce wholesalers, and foodservice distributors. In
many cases, we also arrange the logistics and transportation of the products we sell and provide related supply chain services such as replenishment, category management, and merchandising. We have developed proprietary brands of produce including
The Fresh 1®, Tomorrow’s®Organics, Rosemont Farms®,
and Melon Up®. We also have exclusive licensing agreements to distribute fresh produce under consumer recognized
brand names such as Tropicana®, Welch’s®, Mott’s®, and Glory®Foods. The produce for these brands is sourced through our preferred grower network and packed to order through
contract packing agreements. We have instituted quality assurance and monitoring procedures with each of these preferred growers.

Payment
Services is comprised of a C.H. Robinson subsidiary, T-Chek Systems, Inc. (T-Chek). T-Chek provides a variety of payment management and business intelligence services primarily to motor carrier companies and to fuel distributors. Those services
include funds transfer, fuel purchasing, and online expense management.

Our business model has been the main driver of our historical results
and has positioned us for continued growth. One of our competitive advantages is our branch network of 235 offices, staffed by approximately 6,300 salespeople. These branch employees are in close proximity to both customers and transportation
providers, which gives them broad knowledge of their local markets and enables them to respond quickly to customers’ and transportation providers’ changing needs. Branch employees act as a team in their sales efforts, customer service, and
operations. A significant portion of our branch employees’ compensation is performance-oriented, based on the profitability of their branch and their contributions to the success of the branch. We believe this makes our employees more
service-oriented and focused on driving growth and maximizing office productivity.







Our branches work together to complete transactions and collectively meet the needs of our customers. For
large multi-location customers, we often coordinate our efforts in one branch and rely on multiple branch locations to deliver specific geographic or modal needs. As an example, approximately 40 percent of our truckload shipments are shared
transactions between branches. Our methodology of providing services is very similar across all branches. The majority of our global network operates on a common technology platform that is used to match customer needs with supplier capabilities, to
collaborate with other branch locations, and to utilize centralized support resources to complete all facets of the transaction.

Historically, we have grown primarily through internal growth, by growing market share through the addition of new customers and expanding relationships
with our current customers, adding new services, expanding our market presence and operations globally, and hiring additional salespeople. We have augmented our growth through selective acquisitions.

Our net revenues are our total revenues less purchased transportation and related services, including contracted motor carrier, rail, ocean, air, and
other costs, and the purchase price and services related to the products we source. Our net revenues are the primary indicator of our ability to source, add value, and sell services and products that are provided by third parties, and we consider
them to be our primary performance measurement. Accordingly, the discussion of our results of operations focuses on the changes in our net revenues.

Transportation and Logistics Services

C.H. Robinson provides freight transportation and
related logistics and supply-chain services. Our services range from commitments on a specific shipment to much more comprehensive and integrated relationships. We execute these service commitments by hiring and training people, developing
proprietary systems and technology processes, and utilizing our network of subcontracted transportation providers, including contract motor carriers, railroads, air freight carriers, and ocean carriers. We make a profit on the difference between
what we charge to our customers for the totality of services provided to them and what we pay to the transportation providers to handle or transport the freight. While industry definitions vary, given our extensive subcontracting to create a
flexible network of solutions, we are generally referred to in the industry as a third-party logistics company.

We provide all of the
following transportation and logistics services:



•Truckload — Through our contracts with motor carriers, we have access to dry vans, temperature controlled vans, flatbeds, and bulk capacity. We
also offer time-definite and expedited truck transportation.



•Less Than Truckload (“LTL”) — LTL transportation involves the shipment of small packages and single or multiple pallets of freight, up
to and including full trailer load freight. We focus on shipments of a single pallet or larger, although we handle any size shipment. Through our contracts with motor carriers and our operating system, we consolidate freight and freight information
to provide our customers with a single source of information on their freight. In many instances, we will consolidate partial shipments for several customers into full truckloads.



•Intermodal — Our intermodal transportation service is the shipment of freight in trailers or containers by a combination of truck and rail. We
have intermodal marketing agreements with container owners and all Class 1 railroads in North America, and we arrange local pickup and delivery (known as drayage) through local contracted motor carriers.



•Ocean — We consolidate shipments, determine routing, select ocean carriers, contract for ocean shipments, provide for local pickup and delivery of
shipments, and arrange for customs clearance of shipments, including the payment of duties.



•Air — We provide door-to-door service as a full-service international and domestic air freight forwarder.



•Other Logistics Services — We provide fee-based transportation management services, customs brokerage, warehousing services, and other services.







Customers communicate their freight needs, typically on a shipment-by-shipment basis, to the C.H. Robinson
branch responsible for their account. Customers communicate with us by means of telephone, fax, internet, email, or Electronic Data Interchange (EDI). The branch employee ensures that all appropriate information about each shipment is entered into
our proprietary operating system. With the help of information provided by our operating system, the salesperson then selects a contracted carrier or carriers, based upon his or her knowledge of the carrier’s service capability, equipment
availability, freight rates, and other relevant factors. Based on the information he or she has about the market and rates, the salesperson may either determine an appropriate price at that point or wait to communicate with a contracted carrier
directly before setting a price. In many cases, employees from different branch offices collaborate to hire the appropriate contracted carrier for our customers’ freight, and the branch offices agree to an internal profit split.

Once the contracted carrier is selected, the salesperson communicates with the contract carrier to agree on the cost for the
transportation and the contract carrier’s commitment to provide the transportation. We are in contact with the contract carrier through numerous means of communication (including EDI, our proprietary website CHRWTrucks®(www.chrwtrucks.com), email, fax, telephone, and mobile applications) to meet our customers’ requirements as
well as track the status of the shipment from origin to delivery.

For most of our transportation and logistics services, we are a service
provider. By accepting the customer’s order, we accept certain responsibilities for transportation of the shipment from origin to destination. The carrier’s contract is with us, not the customer, and we are responsible for prompt payment
of freight charges. In the cases where we have agreed (either contractually or otherwise) to pay for claims for damage to freight while in transit, we pursue reimbursement from the contracted carrier for the claims. In our transportation management
business, we are acting as a shipper’s agent. In those cases, the carrier’s contract is with the customer, and we collect a fee for our services.

As a result of our logistics capabilities, some of our customers have us handle all, or a substantial portion, of their freight transportation requirements. Our branch employees price our services to
provide a profit to us for the totality of services performed for the customer. In some cases, our services to the customer are priced on a spot market, or transactional, basis. In a number of instances, we have contracts with the customer in which
we agree to handle an estimated number of shipments, usually to specified destinations, such as from the customer’s plant to a distribution center. Our commitments to handle the shipments are usually at pre-determined rates. Most of our rate
commitments are for one year or less and therefore allow for renegotiation. As is typical in the transportation industry, most of these contracts do not include specific volume commitments. When we enter into prearranged rate agreements for
truckload services with our customers, we usually have fuel surcharge agreements in addition to the underlying line-haul portion of the rate.

We purchase the majority of our truckload services from our contract truckload carriers on a spot market or transactional basis, even when we are working
with the customer on a contractual basis. When we enter into spot transactions with contract motor carriers, we generally negotiate a mutually-agreed upon total market rate that includes all costs, including any applicable fuel expense. However, if
requested by the contract carrier, we will estimate and report fuel separately. In a small number of cases, we may get advance commitments from one or more contract carriers to transport contracted shipments for the length of our customer contract.
In those cases, where we have prearranged rates with contract carriers, there is a calculated fuel surcharge based on a mutually agreed-upon formula.

In the course of providing day-to-day transportation services, our branch employees often identify opportunities for additional logistics services as they become more familiar with our customers’
daily operations and the nuances of our customers’ supply chains. We offer a wide range of logistics services on a worldwide basis that reduce or eliminate supply chain inefficiencies. We will analyze the customers’ current transportation
rate structures, modes of shipping, and carrier selection. We can identify opportunities to consolidate shipments for cost savings. We will suggest ways to improve operating and shipping procedures and manage claims. We can help customers minimize
storage through cross-docking and other flow-through operations. We may also examine the customers’ warehousing and dock procedures. Many of these services are bundled with underlying transportation







services and are not typically priced separately. They are usually included as a part of the cost of transportation services provided by us, based on the nature of the customer relationship. In
addition to these transportation services, we may provide additional logistics services such as contract warehousing, consulting, transportation management, and other services, for which we are usually paid separately.

As we have emphasized integrated logistics solutions, our relationships with many customers have broadened, and we have become a key provider to them by
managing a greater portion of their supply chains. We may serve our customers through specially created teams and through several branches. Our transportation services are provided to numerous international customers through our worldwide branch
network. See Note 1 in Item 8 for an allocation of our total revenues from domestic and foreign customers for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 and our long-lived assets as of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 in the
United States and in foreign locations.

The table below shows our net revenues by transportation mode for the periods indicated:

Transportation Net Revenues



Year Ended December 31,(in thousands)20112010200920082007Truck(1)$1,236,611$1,076,247$1,040,703$1,030,070$949,277Intermodal41,18936,55035,24543,61838,670Ocean66,87360,76354,18862,09443,530Air39,37142,31532,66235,39031,315Other Logistics Services59,87257,25444,78441,40735,240Total$1,443,916$1,273,129$1,207,582$1,212,579$1,098,032



(1)Includes truckload and LTL net revenues.

Transportation services accounted for approximately 88 percent of our net revenues in 2011, 87 percent of our net revenues in 2010, and 88 percent of our
net revenues in 2009.

Sourcing

Since we were founded in 1905, we have been in the business of sourcing fresh produce. Much of our logistics expertise can be traced to our significant experience in handling produce and other perishable
commodities. Because of its perishable nature, produce must be rapidly packaged, carefully transported within tight timetables usually in temperature controlled equipment, and quickly distributed to replenish high-turnover inventories maintained by
retailers, wholesalers, foodservice companies, and restaurants. In many instances, we consolidate individual customers’ produce orders into truckload quantities at the point of origin and arrange for transportation of the truckloads, often to
multiple destinations.

Our Sourcing customer base includes grocery retailers and restaurants, produce wholesalers, and foodservice
distributors.

Our Sourcing services have expanded to include forecasting and replenishment, brand management, and category development
services. We have various national and regional branded produce programs, including both proprietary brands and national licensed brands. These programs contain a wide variety of fresh bulk and value added fruits and vegetables that are high in
quality. These brands have expanded our market presence and relationships with many of our retail customers. We have also instituted quality assurance and monitoring programs as part of our branded and preferred grower programs.

Sourcing accounted for approximately eight percent of our net revenues in 2011 and nine percent in 2010 and 2009.







Payment Services

T-Chek’s customers are primarily motor carriers and truck fuel distributors. T-Chek provides its customers with fuel management services, funds transfer, spend management reporting, driver payroll
services, permits, and online access to customized business intelligence, all through the use of its proprietary automated systems. These systems enable customers to track and manage certain expenses, including fuel and maintenance. For several
companies and fuel distributors, T-Chek captures sales and fuel cost data, provides management information to the seller, and invoices the carrier for fuel, cash advances, and our fee.

Payment Services accounted for approximately four percent of our net revenues in 2011 and 2010 and three percent of our net revenues in 2009.

Organization

Branch Network.To keep us close to our customers and markets, we
operate through a network of offices, which we call “branches.” We currently have 235 branches.

We have branches in the following
areas of the world:



RegionNumber ofBranchesNorth America176Europe32Asia21South America4Australia1Middle East1

Each branch is responsible for its own growth and profitability. Our branch salespeople are responsible for developing
new business, negotiating and pricing services, receiving and processing service requests from customers, and negotiating with carriers to provide the transportation requested. In addition to routine transportation, salespeople are often called upon
to handle customers’ unusual, seasonal, and emergency needs. Shipments to be transported by truck are priced at the branch level, and branches cooperate with each other to hire contract carriers to provide transportation. Branches may rely on
expertise in other branches when contracting LTL, intermodal, international ocean, and air shipments. Multiple branches may also work together to service larger, national accounts where the expertise and resources of more than one branch are
required to meet the customer’s needs. Their efforts are usually coordinated by one “lead” branch on the account.

Salespeople
in the branches both sell to and service their customers. Sales opportunities are identified through our internal database, referrals from current customers, leads generated by branch office personnel through knowledge of their local and regional
markets, and company marketing efforts. Salespeople are also responsible for recruiting new contract carriers, who are referred to our centralized carrier services group to make sure they are properly licensed and insured and have acceptable safety
ratings.

Branch Expansion.We expect to continue to open new branch offices. New branch offices are viewed as a long-term contributor
to overall company growth. In addition to market opportunity, a major consideration in opening a new branch is whether we have branch salespeople that are ready to manage a new branch. A modest amount of capital is required to open a new branch,
usually involving a lease for a small amount of office space, communications and hardware, and often employee compensation guaranties for a short time. We have also augmented our branch office network through selective acquisitions.

Branch Employees.Branch offices are responsible for their hiring and headcount decisions, based on the needs of their branch and balancing
personnel resources with their business requirements. Because the quality of our employees is essential to our success, we are highly selective in our recruiting and hiring. To support our hiring processes, we have a corporate recruiting group that
develops a pipeline of qualified candidates that managers can draw from. Our applicants typically have college degrees, and some have business experience, although not necessarily within the transportation industry.







Early in their tenure, most newly-hired branch employees go through centralized training that emphasizes
development of the skills, including technology training on our proprietary systems and our customer service philosophy, necessary to become productive members of a branch team. Centralized training is followed by ongoing, on-the-job training at the
branch level. We expect most new salespeople to start contributing to the success of the branch in a matter of weeks.

Employees at a branch
operate and are compensated in large part on a team basis. The team structure is motivated by our performance-based compensation system, in which a significant portion of the cash compensation of most branch managers and salespeople is dependent on
the profitability of their particular branch. Branch managers and salespeople who have been employed for at least one complete year are paid a performance-based bonus, which is a portion of the branch’s earnings for that calendar year. The
percentage they can potentially earn is predetermined in an annual bonus contract and is based on their productivity and contributions to the overall success of the branch. Within our 401(k) plan, employees can also receive profit sharing
contributions that depend on our overall profitability and other factors. In some special circumstances, such as opening new branches, we may guarantee a level of compensation to the branch manager and key salespeople for a short period of time.

All of our managers and certain other employees who have significant responsibilities are eligible to participate in our amended 1997
Omnibus Stock Plan. This plan includes restricted stock and restricted stock units as our primary equity awards because we believe these awards are an effective tool for creating long-term ownership and alignment between employees and our
shareholders. In 2011, our restricted share recipients received a portion of their equity awards as performance-based stock options. Most restricted equity awards vest over a period of up to five calendar years, based on the company’s earnings
growth.

Individual salespeople benefit both through the growth and profitability of individual branches and by achieving individual goals.
They are motivated by the opportunity to advance in a variety of career paths, including branch management, corporate sales, and account management. We have a “promote from within” philosophy and fill nearly all branch management positions
with current employees.

Shared Services

Our branches are supported by our corporate executives and shared services. Approximately 15 percent of our employees provide shared services in centralized centers. Approximately 31 percent of these
shared services employees are information technology personnel who develop and maintain our proprietary operating system software and our wide area network.

Executive Officers

The Board of Directors designates the
executive officers annually. Below are the names, ages, and positions of the executive officers:



NameAgePositionJohn P. Wiehoff50Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the BoardJames E. Butts56Senior Vice PresidentBen G. Campbell46Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryJames P. Lemke44Senior Vice PresidentChad M. Lindbloom47Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerScott A. Satterlee43Senior Vice PresidentMark A. Walker54Senior Vice President

John P. Wiehoff has been chief executive officer of C.H. Robinson since May 2002, president of the company since December
1999, a director since 2001, and became the chairman in January 2007. Previous positions with the company include senior vice president from October 1998, chief financial officer from July 1998 to December 1999, treasurer from August 1997 to June
1998, and corporate controller from 1992 to June 1998.







Prior to that, John was employed by Arthur Andersen LLP. John also serves on the Boards of Directors of Polaris Industries Inc. (NYSE: PII) and Donaldson Company, Inc. (NYSE: DCI). He holds a
Bachelor of Science degree from St. John’s University.

James E. Butts was named senior vice president in December 2007, having served as
an executive and officer of C.H. Robinson since April 2002. Previous positions with the company include branch manager at the Chicago South and Detroit branches. Jim has been with C.H. Robinson since 1978 and holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from
Wayne State University and a Masters of Business Administration from Phoenix University. Jim serves on the Advisory Board ofLogistics Quarterly, and on the Editorial Board of CSCMP Supply Chain Quarterly. He is a member of the University of
Minnesota, Carlson School of Management’s Supply Chain and Operations Board of Advisors, as well as Board member of the National Association of Manufacturers. Jim is also a member of the Board of Directors of Store to Door, a non-profit agency
that delivers groceries to adults who are unable to shop for themselves, and a Board member for Junior Achievement of the Upper Midwest.

Ben
G. Campbell was named vice president, general counsel and secretary in January 2009. Ben joined C.H. Robinson in 2004 and most recently held the position of assistant general counsel. Before coming to C.H. Robinson, Ben was a partner at Rider
Bennett, LLP, in Minneapolis, MN. Ben holds a Bachelor of Science degree from St. John’s University and a Juris Doctor from William Mitchell School of Law.

James P. Lemke was named senior vice president in December 2007, having served as vice president, sourcing since 2003. Prior to that time, he served as the vice president and manager of C.H.
Robinson’s Corporate Procurement and Distribution Services branch. Jim joined the company in 1989. Jim holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in International Relations from the University of Minnesota. Jim also serves on the Foundation Board of the
United Fresh Produce Association.

Chad M. Lindbloom was named a senior vice president in December 2007. He has served as an executive
and as chief financial officer since 1999. From June 1998 until December 1999, he served as corporate controller. Chad joined the company in 1990. Chad holds a Bachelor of Science degree and a Masters of Business Administration from the Carlson
School of Management at the University of Minnesota. Chad also serves on the Board of Directors of Xata Corporation (NASDAQ: XATA), a provider of vehicle data and fleet operations services to the trucking industry, and is a member of the Board
of Directors of Children’s Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota.

Scott A. Satterlee was named a senior vice president in December 2007. He
has served as an executive and officer of C.H. Robinson since February 2002. Additional positions with C.H. Robinson include director of operations and manager of the Salt Lake City branch. Scott joined the company in 1991. Scott holds a Bachelor of
Arts degree from the University of St. Thomas. Scott also serves on the Board of Directors of Fastenal (NASDAQ: FAST), the largest fastener distributor in the nation.

Mark A. Walker was named senior vice president in December 2007, after serving as a vice president and officer since December 1999. Additional positions with C.H. Robinson include chief information
officer from December 1999 to October 2001 and president of T-Chek. Mark joined the company in 1980. Mark holds a Bachelor of Science degree from Iowa State University and a Masters of Business Administration from the University of St. Thomas.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2011, we had a total of 8,353 employees, 7,092 of whom were located in our branch offices. Services such as accounting, information technology, legal, marketing, human resource support, credit and claims management, and carrier
services are supported centrally.

Customer Relationships

We seek to establish long-term relationships with our customers and to increase the amount of business done with each customer by providing them with a full range of logistics services. During 2011, we
served over 37,000 active customers worldwide, ranging from Fortune 100 companies to small businesses in a wide variety of industries.







During 2011, our largest customer accounted for approximately four percent of total revenues and approximately two percent of net revenues. In recent years, we have grown by adding new customers
and by increasing our volumes with, and providing more services to, our existing customers.

Branches seek additional business from existing
customers and pursue new customers based on their knowledge of the marketplace and the range of value of logistics services that we can provide. We believe that our account management disciplines and decentralized structure enable our salespeople to
better serve our customers by combining a broad knowledge of logistics and market conditions, with a deep understanding of the specific supply chain issues facing individual customers and certain vertical industries. With the guidance of our
executive team, branches are given significant latitude to pursue opportunities and to commit our resources to serve our customers.

We have
also expanded our corporate sales and marketing support to enhance branch sales capabilities. Branches also call on our executives and our corporate sales staff to support them in the pursuit of new business with companies that have more complex
logistics requirements.

Relationships with Transportation Providers

We continually work on establishing contractual relationships with qualified transportation providers that also meet our service requirements to assure dependable services, favorable pricing, and contract
carrier availability during periods when demand for transportation equipment is greater than the supply. Because we own very little transportation equipment and do not employ the people directly involved with the delivery of our customers’
freight, these relationships are critical to our success.

In 2011, we worked with approximately 53,000 transportation providers worldwide, of
which the vast majority are contracted motor carriers. To strengthen and maintain our relationships with motor carriers, our salespeople regularly communicate with carriers and try to assist them by increasing their equipment utilization, reducing
their empty miles, and repositioning their equipment. To make it easier for contract carriers to work with us, we have a policy of payment upon receipt of proof of delivery. For those contract carriers who would like a faster payment, we also offer
payment within 48 hours of receipt of proof of delivery in exchange for a discount, along with offering in-trip cash advances through our T-Chek subsidiary.

Contracted motor carriers provide access to temperature controlled vans, dry vans, and flatbeds. These contract carriers are of all sizes, including owner-operators of a single truck, small and mid-size
fleets, private fleets, and the largest national trucking companies. Consequently, we are not dependent on any one contract carrier. Our largest truck transportation provider was approximately two percent of our total cost of transportation in 2011.
Motor carriers that had fewer than 100 tractors transported approximately 82 percent of our truckload shipments in 2011. Every motor carrier with which we do business is required to execute a contract that establishes that the carrier is acting as
an independent contractor. At the time the contract is executed, and periodically thereafter, we verify that each motor carrier is properly licensed and insured, has the necessary federally-issued authority to provide transportation services, and
has the ability to provide the necessary level of service on a dependable basis. Our motor carrier contracts require that the motor carrier issue invoices only to and accept payment solely from us for the shipments that they transport under their
contract with us, and allow us to withhold payment to satisfy previous claims or shortages. Our standard contracts do not include volume commitments, and the initial contract rate is modified each time we confirm an individual shipment with a
carrier.

We also have intermodal marketing agreements with container owners and all Class 1 railroads in North America, giving us access to
additional trailers and containers. Our contracts with railroads specify the transportation services and payment terms by which our intermodal shipments are transported by rail. Intermodal transportation rates are typically negotiated between us and
the railroad on a customer-specific basis. We have entered into a two year lease for 348 containers through our relationship with a Class 1 railroad. To support future growth, in 2011, we purchased 500 53-foot containers. We believe that these
containers have helped us better serve our customers and we will continue to analyze the strategy of controlling containers.







In our non-vessel operating common carrier (“NVOCC”) ocean transportation and freight forwarding
business, we have contracts with most of the major ocean carriers which support a variety of service and rate needs for our customers. We negotiate annual contracts that establish the predetermined rates we agree to pay the ocean carriers. The rates
are negotiated based on expected volumes from our customers in specific trade lane requirements. These contracts are often amended throughout the year to reflect changes in market conditions for our business, such as additional trade lanes.

We operate both as a consolidator and as a transactional air freight forwarder internationally and in North America. We select air carriers,
provide for local pickup and delivery of shipments, and arrange for customs clearance of shipments, including the payment of duties. We execute our air freight services through our relationships with air carriers, through charter services, block
space agreements, capacity space agreements, and transactional spot market negotiations. Through charter services, we contract part or all of an airplane to meet customer requirements. Our block space agreements and capacity space agreements are
contracts for a defined time period. The contracts include fixed allocations for predetermined flights at agreed upon rates that are reviewed periodically throughout the year. The transactional negotiations afford us the ability to capture excess
capacity at prevailing market rates for a specific shipment.

Competition

The transportation services industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete against a large number of logistics companies, trucking companies, property freight brokers, carriers offering
logistics services, and freight forwarders. We also buy from and sell transportation services to companies that compete with us.

In our
Sourcing business, we compete with produce brokers, produce growers, produce marketing companies, produce wholesalers, and foodservice buying groups. We also buy from and sell produce to companies that compete with us.

The primary business of our Payment Services business is fuel card services. The fuel card processing industry is very consolidated and a small
number of companies represent the majority of the market.

We often compete with respect to price, scope of services, or a combination
thereof, but believe that our most significant competitive advantages are:



•Our branch network, which enables our salespeople to gain broad knowledge about individual customers, carriers, and the local and regional markets they
serve, and to provide superior customer service based on that knowledge. This network also offers customers higher service as responsibility for shipments is commonly shared across branches, to provide nationwide coverage and local market knowledge;



•Our 53,000 contracted carrier relationships;



•Our size, relative to other providers, is an advantage in attracting more carriers, which in turn enables us to serve our customers more efficiently
and earn more business. Additionally, because of the large number of transactions we do annually, approximately 10 million in 2011, we have greater opportunity to efficiently identify available capacity for our customers’ needs;



•Our business model, which enables us to remain flexible in our service offerings to our customers;



•Our dedicated employees and entrepreneurial culture, which are supported by our performance-based compensation system;



•Our proprietary information systems;



•Our ability to provide a broad range of logistics services;



•Our ability to provide door-to-door services on a worldwide basis; and



•Our financial strength and stability.







Proprietary Information Technology

Our information systems are essential to our ability to efficiently communicate, service our customers and contracted carriers, and manage our business. In 2011, our proprietary information systems helped
our employees efficiently handle approximately 10 million shipments, more than 37,000 active customer relationships, and 53,000 contract carrier relationships. Our employees are linked with each other and with our customers, carriers, and
suppliers by telephone, fax, internet, email, and/or EDI to communicate shipment requirements and availability, and to confirm and bill orders.

Our systems help our salespeople service customer orders, select the optimal modes of transportation, build and consolidate shipments, and identify
appropriate carriers, all based on customer-specific service parameters. Our systems also make shipment data visible to the entire sales team as well as customers and contracted carriers, enabling our salespeople to select contracted carriers and
track shipments in progress. Our systems also provide performance and productivity reports that our managers and executives can use to more efficiently manage our business.

Through our internet sites CHRWOnline®(www.chrwonline.com) and
CHRWTrucks®, customers and contracted carriers can contract for shipments or equipment as well as track and
trace shipments, including delivery confirmation. Customers, contracted carriers, and suppliers also have access to other information in our operating systems through the internet. Our systems use data captured from daily transactions to generate
various management reports that are available to our customers and contracted carriers. These reports provide them with information on traffic patterns, product mix and production schedules, and support analysis of their own customer base,
transportation expenditure trends, and the impact on out-of-route costs.

Government Regulation

We are subject to licensing and regulation as a property freight broker and are licensed by the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) to
arrange for the transportation of property by motor vehicle. The DOT prescribes qualifications for acting in this capacity, including certain surety bonding requirements. We are also subject to regulation by the Federal Maritime Commission as an
ocean freight forwarder and a NVOCC and we maintain separate bonds and licenses for each. We operate as an indirect air carrier of cargo subject to commercial standards set forth by the International Air Transport Association and federal regulations
issued by the Transportation Security Administration and provide customs brokerage services as a customs broker under a license issued by the Bureau of U.S. Customs and Border Protection. We also have and maintain other licenses as required by law.

Although Congress enacted legislation in 1994 that substantially preempts the authority of states to exercise economic regulation of motor
carriers and brokers of freight, some intrastate shipments for which we arrange transportation may be subject to additional licensing, registration, or permit requirements. We generally contractually require and/or rely on the carrier transporting
the shipment to ensure compliance with these types of requirements. We, along with the contracted carriers that we rely on in arranging transportation services for our customers, are also subject to a variety of federal and state safety and
environmental regulations. Although compliance with the regulations governing licensees in these areas has not had a materially adverse effect on our operations or financial condition in the past, there can be no assurance that such regulations or
changes thereto will not adversely impact our operations in the future. Violation of these regulations could also subject us to fines as well as increased claims liability.

We source fresh produce under licenses issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as required by the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act (“PACA”). Other sourcing and distribution
activities may be subject to various federal and state food and drug statutes and regulations. Our T-Chek operations are subject to federal and state regulations, including, but not limited to, the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970.







Risk Management and Insurance

We contractually require all motor carriers we work with to carry at least $750,000 in automobile liability insurance and $25,000 in cargo insurance. We also require all motor carriers to maintain workers
compensation and other insurance coverage as required by law. Many carriers have insurance exceeding these minimum requirements. Railroads, which are generally self-insured, provide limited common carrier liability protection, generally up to
$250,000 per shipment.

As a property freight broker, we are not legally liable for damage to our customers’ cargo. In our customer
contracts, we may agree to assume cargo liability up to a stated maximum. We do not assume cargo liability to our customers above minimum industry standards in our international freight forwarding, ocean transportation, and air freight businesses
but offer our customers the option to purchase shippers interest coverage to insure goods in transit. When we agree to store goods for our customers for longer terms, we provide limited warehouseman’s coverage to our customers and contract for
warehousing services from companies that provide us the same degree of coverage.

We maintain a broad cargo liability insurance policy to
protect us against catastrophic losses that may not be recovered from the responsible contracted carrier. We also carry various liability insurance policies, including automobile and general liability, with a $200 million umbrella in 2009, 2010,
2011, and 2012. Our contingent automobile liability coverage has a retention of $5 million per incident in 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012.

As a
seller of produce, we may, under certain circumstances, have legal responsibility arising from produce sales. Agricultural chemicals used on agricultural commodities intended for human consumption are subject to various approvals, and the
commodities themselves are subject to regulations on cleanliness and contamination. Concern about particular chemicals and alleged contamination can lead to product recalls, and tort claims may be brought by consumers of allegedly affected produce.
We carry product liability coverage under our general liability and umbrella policies to cover tort claims. In addition, in the event of a recall, we may be required to bear the costs of repurchasing, transporting, and destroying any allegedly
contaminated product, as well as potential consequential damages, which were generally not insured. Beginning in 2012, we carry product recall insurance coverage of $50 million. This policy has a retention of $5 million per incident. Any recall or
allegation of contamination could affect our reputation, particularly of our proprietary and licensed branded produce programs. Loss due to spoilage (including the need for disposal) is also a routine part of the sourcing business.

Investor Information

We were
reincorporated in Delaware in 1997 as the successor to a business existing, in various legal forms, since 1905. Our corporate office is located at 14701 Charlson Road, Eden Prairie, Minnesota, 55347-5088, and our telephone number is
(952) 937-8500. Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.chrobinson.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and our financial statements, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this report and other
documents incorporated by reference contain certain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
When used in this Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, in oral statements made by or with the approval of any of our executive
officers, the words or phrases “believes,” “may,” “could,” “will,” “expects,” “should,” “continue,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “will likely result,”
“estimates,” “projects,” or similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.







Except for the historical information contained in this Form 10-K, the matters set forth in this document
may be deemed to be forward-looking statements that represent our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies concerning future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results to differ materially from our historical experience or our present expectations, including, but not limited to, such factors such as changes in economic conditions; changes in market demand and pressures on the pricing for our services;
competition and growth rates within the third party logistics industry; freight levels and availability of truck capacity or alternative means of transporting freight; changes in relationships with existing contracted truck, rail, ocean, and air
carriers; changes in our customer base due to possible consolidation among our customers; our ability to integrate the operations of acquired companies with our historic operations successfully; risks associated with litigation, including contingent
auto liability and insurance coverage; risks associated with operations outside of the U.S.; risks associated with the potential impacts of changes in government regulations; risks associated with the produce industry, including food safety and
contamination issues; fuel price increases or shortages; the impact of war on the economy; and other risks and uncertainties, including those described below.



