ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (“C.H. Robinson,” “the company,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is one of the largest third party logistics companies in the world with 2013 consolidated total revenues of $12.8 billion. We are a service company. We provide freight transportation services and logistics solutions to companies of all sizes, in a wide variety of industries. During2013, we handled approximately12.7million shipments and worked with more than46,000active customers. We operate through a network of285offices, which we call branches, in North America, Europe, Asia, South America, and Australia. We have developed global transportation and distribution networks to provide transportation and supply chain services worldwide. As a result, we have the capability of facilitating most aspects of the supply chain on behalf of our customers.

As a third party logistics provider, we enter into contractual relationships with a wide variety of transportation companies, and utilize those relationships to efficiently and cost effectively transport our customers’ freight. We have contractual relationships with approximately63,000transportation companies, including motor carriers, railroads (primarily intermodal service providers), and air freight and ocean carriers. Depending on the needs of our customer and their supply chain requirements, we select and hire the appropriate transportation for each shipment. Our model enables us to be flexible, provide solutions that optimize service for our customers, and minimize our asset utilization risk. As an integral part of our transportation services, we provide a wide range of value-added logistics services, such as freight consolidation, supply chain consulting and analysis, optimization, and reporting.

In addition to transportation, we provide sourcing services (“Sourcing”). Our Sourcing business is primarily the buying, selling, and marketing of fresh produce. It was our original business when we were founded in 1905. The foundation for much of our logistics expertise can be traced to our significant experience in handling produce and temperature controlled commodities. We supply fresh produce through our network of independent produce growers and suppliers. Our customers include grocery retailers and restaurants, produce wholesalers, and foodservice distributors. In many cases, we also arrange the logistics and transportation of the products we sell and provide related supply chain services such as replenishment, category management, and merchandising. We have developed proprietary brands of produce and have exclusive licensing agreements to distribute fresh produce under consumer recognized brand names. The produce for these brands is sourced through our preferred grower network and packed to order through contract packing agreements. We have instituted quality assurance and monitoring procedures with each of these preferred growers.

Historically, we provided fee-based payment services ("Payment Services") primarily through our subsidiary, T-Chek Systems, Inc., ("T-Chek"). T-Chek provided a variety of payment management and business intelligence services primarily to motor carrier companies and to fuel distributors. Those services included funds transfer, fuel purchasing, and online expense management. For most of these services, T-Chek charged a fee per transaction. On October 16, 2012, we sold substantially all of the assets and transferred certain liabilities of T-Chek to Electronic Funds Source, LLC ("EFS"). We expect to continue to generate Payment Services revenues from the cash advance option we offer our contracted carriers through continued agreements with EFS.

Our flexible business model has been the main driver of our historical results and has positioned us for continued growth. One of our competitive advantages is our branch network of285offices. Our branch employees are in close proximity to both customers and transportation providers, which gives them broad knowledge of their local markets and enables them to respond quickly to customers’ and transportation providers’ changing needs. Branch employees act as a team in their sales efforts, customer service, and operations. A significant portion of most branch employees’ compensation is performance-oriented, based on the profitability of their branch and their contributions to the success of the branch. We believe this makes our employees more service-oriented and focused on driving growth and maximizing office productivity.

Our branches work together to complete transactions and collectively meet the needs of our customers. For large multi-location customers, we often coordinate our efforts in one branch and rely on multiple branch locations to deliver specific geographic or modal needs. As an example, approximately46 percentof our truckload shipments are shared transactions between branches. Our methodology of providing services is very similar across all branches. The majority of our global network operates on a common technology platform that is used to match customer needs with supplier capabilities, to collaborate with other branch locations, and to utilize centralized support resources to complete all facets of the transaction.









Historically, we have grown primarily through internal growth, by increasing market share through the addition of new customers and expanding relationships with our current customers, adding new services, expanding our market presence and operations globally, and hiring additional branch employees. We have augmented our growth through selective acquisitions. In October 2012, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of the operating subsidiaries of Apreo Logistics S.A. ("Apreo"), a leading freight forwarder based in Warsaw, Poland. This acquisition enhances our truckload capabilities in Europe. In November 2012, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of Phoenix International Freight Services, Ltd, ("Phoenix"), an international freight forwarder based in Chicago, Illinois. Phoenix has a strong track record and diverse customer base in the international freight forwarding industry. This acquisition expanded our global forwarding network and market presence.

Our net revenues are our total revenues less purchased transportation and related services, including contracted motor carrier, rail, ocean, air, and other costs, and the purchase price and services related to the products we source. Our net revenues are the primary indicator of our ability to source, add value, and sell services and products that are provided by third parties, and we consider them to be our primary performance measurement. Accordingly, the discussion of our results of operations focuses on the changes in our net revenues.



Transportation and Logistics Services

C.H. Robinson provides freight transportation and related logistics and supply chain services. Our services range from commitments on a specific shipment to much more comprehensive and integrated relationships. We execute these service commitments by hiring and training people, developing proprietary systems and technology processes, and utilizing our network of subcontracted transportation providers, including, but not limited to, contract motor carriers, railroads, air freight carriers, and ocean carriers. We make a profit on the difference between what we charge to our customers for the totality of services provided to them and what we pay to the transportation providers to handle or transport the freight. While industry definitions vary, given our extensive subcontracting to create a flexible network of solutions, we are generally referred to in the industry as a third party logistics company.

We provide all of the following transportation and logistics services:

•Truckload-Through our contracts with motor carriers, we have access to dry vans, temperature controlled vans, flatbeds, and bulk capacity. We also offer time-definite and expedited truck transportation.

•Less Than Truckload (“LTL”)-LTL transportation involves the shipment of single or multiple pallets of freight. We focus on shipments of a single pallet or larger, although we handle any size shipment. Through our contracts with motor carriers and our operating system, we consolidate freight and freight information to provide our customers with a single source of information on their freight. In many instances, we will consolidate partial shipments for several customers into full truckloads.

•Intermodal-Our intermodal transportation service is the shipment of freight in trailers or containers by a combination of truck and rail. We have intermodal marketing agreements with container owners and all Class 1 railroads in North America, and we arrange local pickup and delivery (known as drayage) through local contracted motor carriers. In addition, we own approximately 1,000 intermodal containers.

•Ocean-As a non-vessel ocean common carrier ("NVOCC") or freight forwarder, we consolidate shipments, determine routing, select ocean carriers, contract for ocean shipments, and provide for local pickup and delivery of shipments.

•Air-As a certified indirect air carrier ("Indirect Air Carrier") or freight forwarder, we organize air shipments and provide door-to-door service.

•Customs-Our customs brokers are licensed and regulated by U.S. Customs and Border Protection to assist importers and exporters in meeting federal requirements governing imports and exports.

•Other Logistics Services-We provide fee-based transportation management services, warehousing services, and other services.

Customers communicate their freight needs, typically on a shipment-by-shipment basis, to the C.H. Robinson branch responsible for their account. The branch employee ensures that all appropriate information about each shipment is available in our proprietary operating system. This information is entered by our employees, by the customer through our web tools, or received electronically from the customers' systems. With the help of information provided by our operating system, the salesperson then selects a contracted carrier or carriers, based upon his or her knowledge of the carrier’s service capability, equipment availability, freight rates, and other relevant factors. Based on the information he or she has about the market and









rates, the salesperson may either determine an appropriate price at that point or wait to communicate with a contracted carrier directly before setting a price. In many cases, employees from different branches collaborate to hire the appropriate contracted carrier for our customers’ freight, and the branch offices agree to an internal profit split.

Once the contracted carrier is selected, the salesperson communicates with the contract carrier to agree on the cost for the transportation and the contract carrier’s commitment to provide the transportation. We are in contact with the contract carrier through numerous means of communication to meet our customers’ requirements as well as track the status of the shipment from origin to delivery.

For most of our transportation and logistics services, we are a service provider. By accepting the customer’s order, we accept certain responsibilities for transportation of the shipment from origin to destination. The carrier’s contract is with us, not the customer, and we are responsible for prompt payment of freight charges. In the cases where we have agreed (either contractually or otherwise) to pay for claims for damage to freight while in transit, we pursue reimbursement from the contracted carrier for the claims. In our management services business, we are acting as the shipper’s agent. In those cases, the carrier’s contract is typically with the customer, and we collect a fee for our services.

As a result of our logistics capabilities, some of our customers have us handle all, or a substantial portion, of their freight transportation requirements. Our branch employees price our services to provide a profit to us for the totality of services performed for the customer. In some cases, our services to the customer are priced on a spot market, or transactional, basis. In a number of instances, we have contracts with the customer in which we agree to handle an estimated number of shipments, usually to specified destinations, such as from the customer’s plant to a distribution center. Our commitments to handle the shipments are usually at pre-determined rates. Most of our rate commitments are for one year or less and allow for renegotiation. As is typical in the transportation industry, most of these contracts do not include specific volume commitments. When we enter into prearranged rate agreements for truckload services with our customers, we usually have fuel surcharge agreements, in addition to the underlying line-haul portion of the rate.

We purchase the majority of our truckload services from our contract truckload carriers on a spot market or transactional basis, even when we are working with the customer on a contractual basis. When we enter into spot transactions with contract motor carriers, we generally negotiate a mutually agreed upon total market rate that includes all costs, including any applicable fuel expense. However, if requested by the contract carrier, we will estimate and report fuel separately. In a small number of cases, we may get advance commitments from one or more contract carriers to transport contracted shipments for the length of our customer contract. In those cases, where we have prearranged rates with contract carriers, there is a calculated fuel surcharge based on a mutually agreed-upon formula.

In the course of providing day-to-day transportation services, our branch employees often identify opportunities for additional logistics services as they become more familiar with our customers’ daily operations and the nuances of our customers’ supply chains. We offer a wide range of logistics services on a worldwide basis that reduce or eliminate supply chain inefficiencies. We will analyze the customers’ current transportation rate structures, modes of shipping, and carrier selection. We can identify opportunities to consolidate shipments for cost savings. We will suggest ways to improve operating and shipping procedures and manage claims. We can help customers minimize storage through crossdocking and other flow-through operations. We may also examine the customers’ warehousing and dock procedures. Many of these services are bundled with underlying transportation services and are not typically priced separately. They are usually included as a part of the cost of transportation services provided by us, based on the nature of the customer relationship. In addition to these transportation services, we may provide additional logistics services such as contract warehousing, consulting, transportation management, and other services, for which we are usually paid separately.

As we have emphasized integrated logistics solutions, our relationships with many customers have broadened, and we have become a key provider to them by managing a greater portion of their supply chains. We may serve our customers through specially created teams and through several branches. Our transportation services are provided to numerous international customers through our worldwide branch network. See Note 1 to our 2013 consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report for an allocation of our total revenues from domestic and foreign customers for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 and our long-lived assets as of December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011 in the United States and in foreign locations.









The table below shows our net revenues by transportation mode for the periods indicated:

Transportation Net Revenues

Year Ended December 31,(in thousands)20132012201120102009Truckload$1,054,565$1,060,120$1,037,876$919,787$907,586LTL239,477224,160198,735156,460133,117Intermodal39,08438,81541,18936,55035,245Ocean187,67184,92466,87360,76354,188Air73,08944,44439,37142,31532,662Customs36,57818,22513,10011,86610,546Other Logistics Services67,93157,44946,77245,38834,238Total$1,698,395$1,528,137$1,443,916$1,273,129$1,207,582

Transportation services accounted for approximately 93 percent of our net revenues in 2013, 89 percent of our net revenues in 2012, and 88 percent of our net revenues in 2011. The increases in ocean, air, and customs revenues in 2012 and 2013 are primarily related to our acquisition of Phoenix on November 1, 2012.



Sourcing

Since we were founded in 1905, we have been in the business of sourcing fresh produce. Much of our logistics expertise can be traced to our significant experience in handling produce and other perishable commodities. Because of its perishable nature, produce must be rapidly packaged, carefully transported within tight timetables usually in temperature controlled equipment, and quickly distributed to replenish high-turnover inventories maintained by retailers, wholesalers, foodservice companies, and restaurants. In many instances, we consolidate individual customers’ produce orders into truckload quantities at the point of origin and arrange for transportation of the truckloads, often to multiple destinations.

Our Sourcing customer base includes grocery retailers and restaurants, produce wholesalers, and foodservice distributors.

Our Sourcing services have expanded to include forecasting and replenishment, brand management, and category development services. We have various national and regional branded produce programs, including both proprietary brands and national licensed brands. These programs contain a wide variety of fresh bulk and value added fruits and vegetables that are high in quality. These brands have expanded our market presence and relationships with many of our retail customers. We have also instituted quality assurance and monitoring programs as part of our branded and preferred grower programs.

Sourcing accounted for approximately seven percent of our net revenues in 2013, and eight percent of our net revenues in 2012 and 2011.



Payment Services

On October 16, 2012, we sold substantially all of the operations of T-Chek, which represented a majority of our Payment Services. However, we still earn Payment Services revenues when we advance money to our contract carriers.

Payment Services accounted for less than one percent of our net revenues in 2013, three percent of our net revenues in 2012, and four percent of our net revenues in 2011.









Organization

Branch Network.To keep us close to our customers and markets, we operate through a network of offices, which we call "branches". We currently have285branches in the following areas of the world:

RegionNumber ofBranchesNorth America189Europe52Asia38South America5Australia1

Each branch is responsible for its own growth and profitability. Our branch employees are responsible for developing new business, negotiating and pricing services, receiving and processing service requests from customers, and negotiating with carriers to provide the transportation requested. In addition to routine transportation, branch employees are often called upon to handle customers’ unusual, seasonal, and emergency needs. Shipments to be transported by truck are priced at the branch level, and branches cooperate with each other to hire contract carriers to provide transportation. Branches may rely on expertise in other branches when contracting LTL, intermodal, ocean, and air shipments. Multiple branches may also work together to service larger, national accounts where the expertise and resources of more than one branch are required to meet the customer’s needs. Their efforts are usually coordinated by one “lead” branch on the account.

Employees in the branches both sell to and service their customers. Sales opportunities are identified through our internal database, referrals from current customers, leads generated by branch personnel through knowledge of their local and regional markets, and company marketing efforts. Branch employees are also responsible for recruiting new over the road contract carriers, who are referred to our centralized carrier services group to assure they are properly licensed and insured and have acceptable Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration ("FMCSA") issued safety ratings.

Branch Employees.Branch offices are responsible for their hiring and headcount decisions, based on the needs of their branch and balancing personnel resources with their business requirements. Because the quality of our employees is essential to our success, we are highly selective in our recruiting and hiring. To support our hiring processes, we have a corporate recruiting group that develops a pipeline of qualified candidates that managers can draw from. Our applicants typically have college degrees, and some have business experience, although not necessarily within the transportation industry.

Early in their tenure, most newly-hired branch employees go through centralized training that emphasizes development of the skills necessary to become productive members of a branch team, including technology training on our proprietary systems and our customer service philosophy. Centralized training is followed by ongoing, on-the-job training at the branch level. We expect most new branch employees to start contributing to the success of the branch in a matter of weeks.

Employees at a branch operate and are compensated in large part on a team basis. The team structure is motivated by our performance-based compensation system, in which a significant portion of the cash compensation of most branch managers and branch employees is dependent on the profitability of their particular branch. Branch managers and most branch employees are paid a performance-based bonus, which is a portion of the branch’s earnings for that calendar year. The percentage they can potentially earn is predetermined in an annual bonus contract and is based on their productivity and contributions to the overall success of the branch. Within our 401(k) plan, employees can also receive profit sharing contributions that depend on our overall profitability and other factors. In some special circumstances, such as opening new branches, we may guarantee a level of compensation to the branch manager and key branch employees for a short period of time.

All of our managers and certain other employees who have significant responsibilities are eligible to receive equity awards because we believe these awards are an effective tool for creating long-term ownership and alignment between employees and our shareholders. Generally, these awards are eligible to vest over five-year periods and also include financial performance-based requirements for management employees.

Individual branch employees benefit both through the growth and profitability of individual branches and by achieving individual goals. They are motivated by the opportunity to advance in a variety of career paths, including branch management, corporate sales, and account management. We have a “promote from within” philosophy and fill nearly all branch management positions with current employees.









Shared Services

Our branches are supported by our shared and centralized services. Approximately ten percent of our employees provide shared services in centralized centers. Approximately 44 percent of these shared services employees are information technology personnel who develop and maintain our proprietary operating system software and our wide area network.



Executive Officers

The Board of Directors designates the executive officers annually. Below are the names, ages, and positions of the executive officers:NameAgePositionJohn P. Wiehoff52Chief Executive Officer, President, and Chairman of the BoardBen G. Campbell48Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryBryan D. Foe46Vice President, EuropeAngela K. Freeman46Vice President, Human ResourcesJames P. Lemke46Senior Vice PresidentChad M. Lindbloom49Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThomas K. Mahlke42Vice President, Chief Information OfficerChristopher J. O'Brien46Senior Vice PresidentStéphane D. Rambaud49Senior Vice PresidentScott A. Satterlee45Senior Vice PresidentMark A. Walker56Senior Vice President

John P. Wiehoff has been chief executive officer of C.H. Robinson since May 2002, president of the company since December 1999, a director since 2001, and became the chairman in January 2007. Previous positions with the company include senior vice president from October 1998, chief financial officer from July 1998 to December 1999, treasurer from August 1997 to June 1998, and corporate controller from 1992 to June 1998. Prior to that, John was employed by Arthur Andersen LLP. John also serves on the Boards of Directors of Polaris Industries Inc. (NYSE: PII), a provider of off-road vehicles, snowmobiles, motorcycles and on-road electric/hybrid powered vehicles, and Donaldson Company, Inc. (NYSE: DCI), a provider of filtration systems. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree from St. John’s University.

Ben G. Campbell was named vice president, general counsel and secretary in January 2009. Ben joined C.H. Robinson in 2004 and most recently held the position of assistant general counsel. Before coming to C.H. Robinson, Ben was a partner at Rider Bennett, LLP, in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Ben holds a Bachelor of Science degree from St. John’s University and a Juris Doctor from William Mitchell College of Law.

Bryan D. Foe was named vice president, Europe in July 2012. He has served as a vice president since 2005. Additional positions with C.H. Robinson include president of T-Chek Systems, Inc., and manager of the Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, and Grand Rapids, Michigan, branch offices. Bryan joined the company in 1990. He also served as a Research Advisory Committee Member for the American Transportation Research Institute and was past treasurer of the Detroit Intermodal Association. He attended the Detroit College of Business.

Angela K. Freeman was named vice president, human resources in September 2012, having served as vice president, investor relations and public affairs since 2009. In that role she oversaw all internal and external communications, including marketing. Prior to that time, she served as the director of investor relationsand as director of marketing communications. She also currently serves as the President of the C.H. Robinson Foundation. Angie joined the company in 1998. She holds a Master of Science from the London School of Economics, and a Bachelor of Arts and a Bachelor of Science from the University of North Dakota. Angie also serves as Chairperson of Community Health Charities of Minnesota.

James P. Lemke was named senior vice president in December 2007, having served as vice president, Sourcing since 2003. Prior to that time, he served as the vice president and manager of C.H. Robinson’s Corporate Procurement and Distribution Services branch. Jim joined the company in 1989. Jim holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in International Relations from the University of Minnesota. Jim also serves on the Foundation Board of the United Fresh Produce Association.

Chad M. Lindbloom was named a senior vice president in December 2007. He has served as an executive and as chief financial officer since 1999. From June 1998 until December 1999, he served as corporate controller. Chad joined the company in 1990. Chad holds a Bachelor of Science degree and a Masters of Business Administration from the Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota. Chad also served on the Board of Directors of XRS Corporation (NASDAQ: XRSC), a provider









of vehicle data and fleet operations services to the trucking industry from February 2008 until March 2013, and the Board of Directors of Children's Hospital and Clinics of Minnesota from January 2008 until January 2014.

Thomas K. Mahlke was named vice president and chief information officer in August 2007. Prior to that time, he served as C.H. Robinson's corporate controller from December 1999 through August 2007. Tom joined the company in 1997 as an accounting manager. Before coming to C.H. Robinson, he was a supervisory senior accountant of Arthur Andersen LLP. Tom holds Bachelor of Accountancy degree from the University of North Dakota.

Christopher J. O'Brien was named a senior vice president in May 2012. He has served as a vice president since May 2003. Additional positions with C.H. Robinson include president of the company's European division and manager of the Raleigh, North Carolina, branch office. Chris joined the company in 1993. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Alma College in Alma, Michigan. Chris also serves on the Board of Trustees of the University of Minnesota's Landscape Arboretum.

Stéphane D. Rambaud was named a senior vice president in November 2012. Prior to that, he served as a chief executive officer for Phoenix International, a privately-held international freight forwarder, which was acquired by C.H. Robinson in November 2012. Stéphane joined Phoenix in 1985 and prior to becoming chief executive officer in 2007, he served as president from 2003 until 2007 and chief operating officer from 2000 until 2003. Stéphane completed his education at Académie Commerciale Internationale in Paris, France.

Scott A. Satterlee was named a senior vice president in December 2007. He has served as an executive and officer of           C.H. Robinson since February 2002. Additional positions with C.H. Robinson include director of operations and manager of the Salt Lake City, Utah, branch. Scott joined the company in 1991. Scott holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of St. Thomas. Scott also serves on the Board of Directors of Fastenal Company (NASDAQ: FAST), the largest fastener distributor in the nation.

Mark A. Walker was named senior vice president in December 2007, after serving as a vice president and officer since December 1999. Additional positions with C.H. Robinson include chief information officer from December 1999 to October 2001 and president of T-Chek. Mark joined the company in 1980. Mark holds a Bachelor of Science degree from Iowa State University and a Masters of Business Administration from the University of St. Thomas. Mark has announced that he will be retiring from the Company effective July 1, 2014.



Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had a total of11,676employees, 10,508 of whom were located in our branch offices. Services such as finance, information technology, legal, marketing, and human resource support are supported centrally.



Customer Relationships

We seek to establish long-term relationships with our customers and to increase the amount of business done with each customer by providing them with a full range of logistics services. During 2013, we served over46,000active customers worldwide, ranging from Fortune 100 companies to small businesses in a wide variety of industries.

During2013, our largest customer accounted for approximatelythreepercent of total revenues and approximatelytwopercent of net revenues. In recent years, we have grown by adding new customers and by increasing our volumes with, and providing more services to, our existing customers.

Branches seek additional business from existing customers and pursue new customers based on their knowledge of the marketplace and the range of logistics services that we can provide. We believe that our account management disciplines and decentralized structure enable our branch employees to better serve our customers by combining a broad knowledge of logistics and market conditions with a deep understanding of the specific supply chain issues facing individual customers and certain vertical industries. With the guidance of our executive team, branches are given significant latitude to pursue opportunities and to commit our resources to serve our customers.

We have also expanded our corporate sales and marketing support to enhance branch sales capabilities. Branches also call on our executives and our corporate sales staff to support them in the pursuit of new business with companies that have more complex logistics requirements.









Relationships with Transportation Providers

We continually work on establishing contractual relationships with qualified transportation providers that also meet our service requirements to assure dependable services, favorable pricing, and contract carrier availability during periods when demand for transportation equipment is greater than the supply. Because we own very little transportation equipment and do not employ the people directly involved with the delivery of our customers’ freight, these relationships are critical to our success.

In2013, we worked with approximately63,000transportation providers worldwide, of which the vast majority are contracted motor carriers. To strengthen and maintain our relationships with motor carriers, our branch employees regularly communicate with carriers and try to assist them by increasing their equipment utilization, reducing their empty miles, and repositioning their equipment. To make it easier for contract carriers to work with us, we have a policy of payment upon receipt of proof of delivery. For those contract carriers who would like a faster payment, we also offer payment within 48 hours of receipt of proof of delivery in exchange for a discount, along with offering in-trip cash advances.

Contracted motor carriers provide access to dry vans, temperature controlled vans, and flatbeds. These contract carriers are of all sizes, including owner-operators of a single truck, small and mid-size fleets, private fleets, and the largest national trucking companies. Consequently, we are not dependent on any one contract carrier. Our largest truck transportation provider was approximatelytwopercent of our total cost of transportation in2013. Motor carriers that had fewer than 100 tractors transported approximately83percent of our truckload shipments in2013. Every motor carrier with which we do business is required to execute a contract that establishes that the carrier is acting as an independent contractor. At the time the contract is executed, and daily, through subscriptions with a third party service, we assure that each motor carrier is properly licensed and insured, has the necessary federally-issued authority to provide transportation services, and has the ability to provide the necessary level of service on a dependable basis. Our motor carrier contracts require that the motor carrier issue invoices only to and accept payment solely from us for the shipments that they transport under their contract with us, and allow us to withhold payment to satisfy previous claims or shortages. Our standard contracts do not include volume commitments, and the initial contract rate is modified each time we confirm an individual shipment with a carrier.

We also have intermodal marketing agreements with container owners and all Class 1 railroads in North America, giving us access to additional trailers and containers. Our contracts with railroads specify the transportation services and payment terms by which our intermodal shipments are transported by rail. Intermodal transportation rates are typically negotiated between us and the railroad on a customer-specific basis. We own approximately 1,000 53-foot containers. We believe that these containers have helped us better serve our customers, and we will continue to analyze the strategy of controlling containers.



In our NVOCC ocean transportation business, we have contracts with most of the major ocean carriers which support a variety of service and rate needs for our customers. We negotiate annual contracts that establish the predetermined rates we agree to pay the ocean carriers. The rates are negotiated based on expected volumes from our customers in specific trade lanes. These contracts are often amended throughout the year to reflect changes in market conditions for our business, such as additional trade lanes.

We operate both as a consolidator and as a transactional air freight forwarder internationally and in North America. We select air carriers and provide for local pickup and delivery of shipments. We execute our air freight services through our relationships with air carriers, through charter services, block space agreements, capacity space agreements, and transactional spot market negotiations. Through charter services, we contract part or all of an airplane to meet customer requirements. Our block space agreements and capacity space agreements are contracts for a defined time period. The contracts include fixed allocations for predetermined flights at agreed upon rates that are reviewed periodically throughout the year. The transactional negotiations afford us the ability to capture excess capacity at prevailing market rates for a specific shipment.



Competition

The transportation services industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete against a large number of logistics companies, trucking companies, property freight brokers, carriers offering logistics services, and freight forwarders. We also buy from and sell transportation services to companies that compete with us.

In our Sourcing business, we compete with produce brokers, produce growers, produce marketing companies, produce wholesalers, and foodservice buying groups. We also buy from and sell produce to companies that compete with us.









We often compete with respect to price, scope of services, or a combination thereof, but believe that our most significant competitive advantages are:

•People-Smart, dedicated, empowered people are an extension of our customers’ teams to innovate and execute their supply chain strategies;

•Process-Proven processes and solutions combine strategy with practical experience for customized action plans that succeed in the real world;

•Technology-A significant investment in our Navisphere®proprietary technology gives flexibility, global visibility, customized solutions, easy integration, broad connectivity, and advanced security;

•Network-Our customers gain local presence, regional expertise, and multiple global logistics options from one of the world’s largest providers of logistics services;

•Relationships-A large number of unique, strong relationships provide global connections and valuable market knowledge;

•Portfolio of Services-A wide selection of services and products help provide our customers with consistent capacity and service levels;

•Scale-Our customers leverage our industry-leading capacity, broad procurement options, and substantial shipment volumes for better efficiency, service, and marketplace advantages; and

•Stability-Our financial strength, discipline, and consistent track record of success for strategic support of our customers’ supply chains.



Seasonality

Historically, our operating results have been subject to seasonal trends. In recent years, operating income and earnings have been lower in the first quarter than in the other three quarters, although this was not our experience in 2013 or 2012. 2012 would have followed this pattern, but our fourth quarter results were impacted by certain significant event-specific charges and credits related to our acquisitions and divestitures. We believe this pattern has been the result of, or influenced by, numerous factors including national holidays, weather patterns, consumer demand, economic conditions, and other similar and subtle forces. Although seasonal changes in the transportation industry have not had a significant impact on our cash flow or results of operations, we expect this trend to continue and we cannot guarantee that it will not adversely impact us in the future.



Proprietary Information Technology and Intellectual Property

Our information systems are essential to efficiently communicate, service our customers and contracted carriers, and manage our business. In2013, we executed approximately12.7million shipments for more than46,000active customers and63,000contract carriers.

We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and nondisclosure and non-competition agreements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology. Additionally, we have numerous registered trademarks, trade names, and logos in the United States and international locations.

In October 2012, we launched Navisphere®, a single platform that allows customers to communicate worldwide with every party in their supply chain across languages, currencies, and continents. Navisphere®offers sophisticated business analytics to help improve supply chain performance and meet increasing customer demands.

The CHRWTrucks®web-based platform provides contracted carriers additional access to our systems. Contract carriers can access available freight, perform on-line check calls, keep track of receivables, and upload scanned documentation. Many of our carriers favorite features from CHRWTrucks®are also available through our CHRWTrucks®mobile application available for Android and IOS mobile operating systems.

Our systems help our branch employees service customer orders, select the optimal mode of transportation, build and consolidate shipments, and identify appropriate carriers, all based on customer-specific service parameters. Our systems provide our vast organization the necessary business intelligence to allow for real time scorecards and necessary decision support in all areas of our business.









Government Regulation

Our operations may be regulated and licensed by various federal, state, and local transportation agencies in the United States and similar governmental agencies in foreign countries in which we operate.

We are subject to licensing and regulation as a property freight broker and are licensed by the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) to arrange for the transportation of property by motor vehicle. The DOT prescribes qualifications for acting in this capacity, including certain surety bonding requirements. We are also subject to regulation by the Federal Maritime Commission as an ocean freight forwarder and a NVOCC and we maintain separate bonds and licenses for each. We operate as a Department of Homeland Security certified Indirect Air Carrier, providing air freight services, subject to commercial standards set forth by the International Air Transport Association and federal regulations issued by the Transportation Security Administration. We provide customs brokerage services as a customs broker under a license issued by the Bureau of U.S. Customs and Border Protection. We also have and maintain other licenses as required by law.

Although Congress enacted legislation in 1994 that substantially preempts the authority of states to exercise economic regulation of motor carriers and brokers of freight, some intrastate shipments for which we arrange transportation may be subject to additional licensing, registration, or permit requirements. We generally contractually require and/or rely on the carrier transporting the shipment to ensure compliance with these types of requirements. We, along with the contracted carriers that we rely on in arranging transportation services for our customers, are also subject to a variety of federal and state safety and environmental regulations. Although compliance with the regulations governing licensees in these areas has not had a materially adverse effect on our operations or financial condition in the past, there can be no assurance that such regulations or changes thereto will not adversely impact our operations in the future. Violation of these regulations could also subject us to fines as well as increased claims liability.

We source fresh produce under licenses issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as required by the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act (“PACA”). Other sourcing and distribution activities may be subject to various federal and state food and drug statutes and regulations.

We are subject to a variety of other U.S. and foreign laws and regulations including, but not limited to, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption statutes.



Risk Management and Insurance

We contractually require all motor carriers we work with to carry at least $750,000 in automobile liability insurance and $25,000 in cargo insurance. We also require all motor carriers to maintain workers compensation and other insurance coverage as required by law. Many carriers have insurance exceeding these minimum requirements. Railroads, which are generally self-insured, provide limited common carrier liability protection, generally up to $250,000 per shipment.

As a property freight broker, we are not legally liable for damage to our customers’ cargo. In our customer contracts, we may agree to assume cargo liability up to a stated maximum. We typically do not assume cargo liability to our customers above minimum industry standards in our international freight forwarding, ocean transportation, and air freight businesses. We do offer our customers the option to purchase shippers interest coverage to insure goods in transit. When we agree to store goods for our customers for longer terms, we provide limited warehouseman’s coverage to our customers and contract for warehousing services from companies that provide us the same degree of coverage.

We maintain a broad cargo liability insurance policy to help protect us against catastrophic losses that may not be recovered from the responsible contracted carrier. We also carry various liability insurance policies, including automobile and general liability, with a $200 million umbrella. Our contingent automobile liability coverage has a retention of $5 million per incident.

As a seller of produce, we may, under certain circumstances, have legal responsibility arising from produce sales. We carry product liability coverage under our general liability and umbrella policies to cover tort claims. In addition, in the event of a recall, we may be required to bear the costs of repurchasing, transporting, and destroying any allegedly contaminated product, as well as potential consequential damages which were generally not insured. Beginning in 2012, we carry product recall insurance coverage of $50 million. This policy has a retention of $5 million per incident.



Investor Information

We were reincorporated in Delaware in 1997 as the successor to a business existing, in various legal forms, since 1905. Our corporate office is located at 14701 Charlson Road, Eden Prairie, Minnesota, 55347-5088, and our telephone number is (952) 937-8500. Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934









are available free of charge through our website (www.chrobinson.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with the Securities and Exchange Commission.



Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and our financial statements, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II of this report and other documents incorporated by reference contain certain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. When used in this Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, in oral statements made by or with the approval of any of our executive officers, the words or phrases “believes,” “may,” “could,” “will,” “expects,” “should,” “continue,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “will likely result,” “estimates,” “projects,” or similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.



