
10-K
FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 27, 1998



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549
                          -----------------------------


                                    FORM 10-K

[X]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
        ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 27, 1998

                                       OR

[ ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

             For the transition period from __________ to __________

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 0-20322


                              STARBUCKS CORPORATION
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

           WASHINGTON                                        91-1325671
(State or Other Jurisdiction of                           (I.R.S. Employer
Incorporation or Organization)                         Identification Number)

2401 UTAH AVENUE SOUTH, SEATTLE, WASHINGTON                    98134
 (Address of Principal Executive Offices)                    (Zip Code)

       Registrant's Telephone Number, including Area Code: (206) 447-1575

        Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: NONE

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                           COMMON STOCK, NO PAR VALUE

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                                 Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation of S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form l0-K. [X]

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant, based upon the closing sale price of the Registrants Common Stock on
December 1, 1998, as reported on the National Market tier of The Nasdaq Stock
Market, Inc. was $4,368,196,902.

As of December l, 1998, there were 89,655,557 shares of the Registrant's Common
Stock outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrants Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year
ended September 27, 1998 have been incorporated by reference into Parts II and
IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Portions of the definitive Proxy
Statement for the Registrant's Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
February 23, 1999 have been incorporated by reference into Part III of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.





             Cautionary Statement pursuant to the Private Securities
                         Litigation Reform Act of 1995

         Certain statements set forth in or incorporated by reference into this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, including anticipated store openings, planned
capital expenditures and trends in or expectations regarding the Company's
operations, specifically including the effect of problems associated with the
Year 2000, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on
currently available operating, financial and competitive information and are
subject to various risks and uncertainties. Actual future results and trends may
differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited
to, coffee and other raw materials prices and availability, successful execution
of internal performance and expansion plans, the impact of competition, the
effect of legal proceedings and other risks detailed herein.


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

          General. Starbucks Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively
"Starbucks" or the "Company") purchases and roasts high-quality whole bean
coffees and sells them, along with fresh, rich-brewed coffees, Italian-style
espresso beverages, a variety of pastries and confections and coffee-related
accessories and equipment, primarily through its Company-operated retail stores.
In addition to sales through its Company-operated retail stores, Starbucks sells
primarily whole bean coffees through its specialty sales operations. Starbucks,
through its joint venture partnerships, also produces and sells bottled
Frappuccino(TM) coffee drink and a line of premium ice creams. The Company's
objective is to establish Starbucks as the most recognized and respected brand
of coffee in the world. To achieve this goal, the Company plans to continue to
rapidly expand its retail operations, grow its specialty sales businesses, and
selectively pursue other opportunities to leverage the Starbucks brand through
the introduction of new products and the development of new distribution
channels.

          Starbucks is committed to selling only the finest whole bean coffees
and coffee beverages. To ensure compliance with its rigorous coffee standards,
Starbucks controls its coffee purchasing, roasting and packaging, and the
distribution of coffee to its retail stores. The Company purchases green coffee
beans for its many blends and single origin coffees from coffee-producing
regions around the world and custom roasts them to its exacting standards.

          Company-Operated Retail Stores. The Company's retail goal is to become
the leading retailer and brand of coffee in each of its target markets by
selling the finest quality coffee and related products and by providing superior
customer service, thereby building a high degree of customer loyalty. Starbucks
strategy for expanding its retail business is to increase its market share in
existing markets and to open stores in new markets where the opportunity exists
to become the leading specialty coffee retailer. In furtherance of this
strategy, the Company acquired London-based Seattle Coffee Holdings Limited
("Seattle Coffee Company") in exchange for approximately 1.8 million shares of
Starbucks common stock in May 1998. The acquisition gave the Company an
immediate presence in the United Kingdom with 61 Starbucks-style retail stores,
and provides a logical point of entry for future expansion into the European
market. As of September 27, 1998, Starbucks had 1,688 Company-operated stores in
32 states, the District of Columbia, four Canadian provinces and the United
Kingdom. Company-operated retail stores accounted for approximately 84% of net
revenues during the fiscal year ended September 27, 1998 ("fiscal 1998"). The
Company intends to finance additional growth in the number of Company-operated
retail stores with cash flow from operations, supplemented by debt financing, if
necessary.

         Starbucks retail stores are typically clustered in high-traffic,
high-visibility locations. Because the Company can vary the size and format of
its stores, Starbucks stores are located in a variety of settings, including
downtown and suburban retail centers, office buildings, supermarket foyers and
on university campuses. While the Company selectively locates stores in suburban
malls, it focuses on stores that are convenient for pedestrian street traffic.

          All Starbucks stores offer a choice of regular or decaffeinated coffee
beverages, including at least one "coffee of the day," a broad selection of
Italian-style espresso beverages and distinctively packaged, roasted whole 




bean coffees. Starbucks stores also offer a selection of fresh pastries and
other food items, sodas, juices, tea, and coffee-making equipment and
accessories. Each Starbucks store varies its product mix depending upon the size
of the store and its location. Larger stores carry a broad selection of the
Company's whole bean coffees in various sizes and types of packaging, as well as
an assortment of coffee and espresso-making equipment and accessories such as
coffee grinders, drip coffee makers, espresso machines, coffee filters, storage
containers, travel tumblers and mugs. Smaller Starbucks stores and kiosks
typically sell a full line of coffee beverages, a more limited selection of
whole bean coffees and a few accessories such as travel tumblers and logo mugs.
During fiscal 1998, the Company's retail sales mix by product type was
approximately 66% coffee beverages, 14% food items, 12% whole bean coffees, and
8% coffee-making equipment and accessories.

          Specialty Sales. Starbucks specialty sales operations strive to
develop the Starbucks brand outside the Company-operated retail store
environment. Starbucks strategy for expanding its specialty sales operations is
to reach customers as they shop, travel, work and dine by establishing
relationships with prominent third parties who share Starbucks values and
commitment to quality. These relationships take various forms, including
domestic wholesale accounts, domestic retail store and grocery channel licensing
agreements, international licensing arrangements and a direct response business.
In some situations, the licensee is a joint venture in which Starbucks has an
equity ownership interest. During fiscal 1998, specialty sales revenues (which
include royalties and fees from licensees as well as product sales) accounted
for approximately 16% of the Company's net revenues.

          Domestic Retail Licensing. Although the Company does not generally
relinquish operational control of its retail stores in North America, in
situations in which a master concessionaire or another company controls or can
provide improved access to desirable retail space, the Company may consider
licensing its operations. As part of these arrangements, Starbucks receives
license fees and royalties and sells coffee and related products for resale in
the licensed locations. Employees working in the licensed locations must follow
Starbucks detailed store-operating procedures and attend the same core training
classes given to Starbucks store managers and employees. As of September 27,
1998, the Company had 133 licensee-operated stores in continental North America.

          Domestic Grocery Licensing. Following supermarket tests in Portland,
Oregon and Chicago, Illinois during fiscal 1997 and early fiscal 1998, the
Company evaluated several strategic alternatives for accessing the market for
whole bean and ground specialty coffee in supermarkets. During the second half
of fiscal 1998, the Company expanded the distribution of its coffee to 10 West
Coast grocery markets. By fiscal year-end, Starbucks whole bean and ground
coffee was available in approximately 4,000 supermarkets. Late in fiscal 1998,
Starbucks entered into a long-term licensing agreement with Kraft Foods, Inc.
("Kraft") to accelerate the growth of the Starbucks brand into the grocery
channel in the United States. Pursuant to the arrangements with Kraft, Kraft
will handle all distribution, marketing, advertising and promotions for
Starbucks whole bean and ground coffee in grocery, warehouse club and mass
merchandise stores.

          Domestic Joint Ventures. The Company has entered into 50-50 joint
ventures with the Pepsi-Cola Company, a division of PepsiCo, Inc. ("Pepsi"), and
Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream, Inc. ("Dreyer's"). The joint venture with Pepsi, The
North American Coffee Partnership, was formed in fiscal 1994 to develop and
distribute ready-to-drink coffee-based products. In May 1996, The North American
Coffee Partnership introduced bottled Frappuccino coffee drink in selected
supermarkets and other retail points of distribution throughout the west coast
of the United States. In mid-1997, the joint venture began to distribute
Frappuccino to additional supermarkets, convenience and drug stores on the west
coast as well as key cities in the midwest and northeast United States. By the
end of fiscal 1998, the joint venture was distributing Frappuccino to
approximately 200,000 supermarkets, convenience and drug stores and other
locations throughout the United States. The Company's joint venture with
Dreyer's was formed in early fiscal 1996 to develop and distribute Starbucks
premium coffee ice creams. During fiscal 1997, the Company expanded the product
line produced and distributed through the joint venture from six flavors of ice
cream to eight flavors of ice cream and two novelty products, including two
low-fat ice creams and a low-fat blended coffee bar. In early 1998, the Company
introduced its first non-coffee ice cream in limited markets. (See Note 6 to the
Company's consolidated financial statements, "Joint Ventures and Other
Investments," incorporated by reference to the Company's 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.)

          International Licensing. Starbucks retail stores located outside of
continental North America and the United Kingdom are operated through a number
of joint venture and licensing arrangements with prominent retailers. During
fiscal 1998, the Company expanded its international presence by opening 45 new
stores in the 





Pacific Rim and entering into agreements with Restaurant Brands, the Berjaya
Group and Beijing Mei-Da Coffee Company Ltd. to develop Starbucks stores in New
Zealand, Malaysia and Beijing, China, respectively. At fiscal year end the
Company had 26 stores in Japan, 13 in Hawaii, 11 in Singapore, six in Taiwan,
five in the Philippines and one in Thailand. The Company also has two licensed
locations in South Africa and one in Kuwait obtained in the acquisition of
Seattle Coffee Company.

          Direct Response. The Company's direct response operations ensure that
fresh Starbucks coffee and products are conveniently available via mail order
and on-line. Starbucks publishes and distributes a mail order catalog that
offers its coffees, certain food items and select coffee-making equipment and
accessories. In early October 1998, the Company launched its web site at
www.Starbucks.com with an on-line store that allows customers to browse for and
purchase coffee, gifts and other items via the internet. Starbucks ships
products to customers located in all 50 states and in many foreign countries.
Management believes that the Company's direct response operations support its
retail store expansion into new markets and reinforce brand recognition in
existing markets.

          Product Supply. Coffee is the world's second largest traded commodity
and its supply and price are subject to significant volatility. Although most
coffee trades in the commodity market, coffee of the quality sought by the
Company tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial premium above
commodity coffee prices, depending upon the supply and demand at the time of
purchase. Supply and price can be affected by multiple factors in the producing
countries, including weather, political and economic conditions. In addition,
green coffee prices have been affected in the past, and may be affected in the
future, by the actions of certain organizations and associations that have
historically attempted to influence commodity prices of green coffee through
agreements establishing export quotas or restricting coffee supplies worldwide.

          The Company depends upon its relationships with outside trading
companies and exporters for its supply of green coffee. To secure an adequate
supply and to fix costs for future periods, the Company routinely enters into
fixed price purchase commitments for future deliveries of coffee. As of
September 27, 1998, the Company had approximately $96 million in fixed price
purchase commitments which, together with existing inventory, is expected to
provide an adequate supply of green coffee well into fiscal 1999. The Company
believes, based on relationships established with its suppliers in the past,
that the risk of non-delivery on such purchase commitments is remote. In
addition, the Company from time to time purchases and sells coffee futures
contracts as a hedging mechanism to minimize cost risk due to market
fluctuations. There can be no assurance that these activities will successfully
protect the Company against the risks of higher coffee prices or that such
activities will not result in the Company having to pay substantially more for
its coffee supply than it would have been required to pay absent such
activities.

          Products other than whole bean coffees and coffee beverages sold in
Starbucks retail stores are obtained through a number of different channels.
Specialty foods, such as fresh pastries and lunch items, are generally purchased
from local sources based on quality and price. Coffee-making equipment, such as
drip and french press coffee makers, espresso machines and coffee grinders, are
generally purchased directly from their manufacturers for resale. Coffee-related
accessories, including items bearing the Company's logos and trademarks, are
produced and distributed through contracts with a number of different vendors.

         Competition. The Company's primary competitors for coffee beverage
sales are restaurants, shops, and street carts. In almost all markets in which
the Company does business there has been a significant increase in competition
in the specialty coffee beverage business and management expects this trend to
continue. Although competition in the beverage market is currently fragmented, a
major competitor with substantially greater financial, marketing and operating
resources than the Company could enter this market at any time and compete
directly against the Company.

         The Company's whole bean coffees compete directly against specialty
coffees sold at retail through supermarkets, specialty retailers, and a growing
number of specialty coffee stores. The Company's coffee beverages compete
directly against all restaurant and beverage outlets that serve coffee and a
growing number of espresso stands, carts, and stores. Both the Company's whole
bean coffees and its coffee beverages compete indirectly against all other
coffees on the market. The Company believes that its customers choose among
retailers primarily on the basis of product quality, service and convenience,
and, to a lesser extent, on price.





          Management believes that supermarkets are the most competitive
distribution channel for specialty whole bean coffee, in part because
supermarkets offer customers a variety of choices without having to make a
separate trip to a specialty coffee store. A number of nationwide coffee
manufacturers are distributing premium coffee products in supermarkets that may
serve as substitutes for the Company's coffees. Regional specialty coffee
companies also sell whole bean coffees in supermarkets.

         In addition to the competition generated by supermarket sales of
coffee, Starbucks competes for whole bean coffee sales with franchise operators
and independent specialty coffee stores. In virtually every major metropolitan
area where Starbucks operates and expects to expand, there are local or regional
competitors with substantial market presence in the specialty coffee business.

          In addition to the competition for coffee beverage retail sales and
whole bean coffee, the Company faces intense competition from both restaurants
and other specialty retailers for suitable sites for new stores and qualified
personnel to operate both new and existing stores. There can be no assurance
that Starbucks will be able to continue to secure adequate sites at acceptable
rent levels or that the Company will be able to attract a sufficient number of
qualified workers. Starbucks specialty sales operations also face significant
competition from established wholesale and mail order suppliers, some of whom
have greater financial and marketing resources than the Company.

          Patents, Trademarks and Copyrights. The Company owns and/or has
applied to register numerous trademarks and service marks in the United States,
Canada and in more than 100 additional countries throughout the world. Rights to
the trademarks and service marks in the United States are held by Starbucks U.S.
Brands Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and are used by
the Company under license. Some of the Company's trademarks, including
"Starbucks," the Starbucks logo and "Frappuccino," are of material importance to
the Company. Trademarks are generally valid as long as they are in use and/or
their registrations are properly maintained, and they have not been found to
have become generic. Trademark registrations can generally be renewed
indefinitely so long as the marks are in use.

          The Company also owns numerous copyrights for its product packaging,
promotional materials, in-store graphics and training materials, among other
things. The Company also holds patents on certain products and systems. While
valuable, individual copyrights and patents currently held by the Company are
not viewed as material to the Company's business.

         Research and Development. The Company's Research and Development
department is comprised of chemists, engineers, food scientists and technicians
responsible for the formulation and technical development of new food, beverage
and equipment products. The department has played a major role in the
development of bottled Frappuccino, coffee ice cream products, a portafilter
system for espresso machines that accommodates both ground coffee and espresso
filter packs ("pods"), and the Company's blended fruit and tea beverage,
Tiazzi(TM). The Company spent approximately $4.0 million during fiscal 1998 on
technical research and development activities, in addition to customary product
testing and development in all areas of the Company's business.

          Seasonality and Quarterly Results. The Company's business is subject
to seasonal fluctuations. Significant portions of the Company's net revenues and
profits are realized during the first quarter of the Company's fiscal year that
includes the December holiday season. In addition, quarterly results are
affected by the timing of the opening of new stores, and the Company's rapid
growth may conceal the impact of other seasonal influences. Because of the
seasonality of the Company's business, results for any quarter are not
necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal
year.

         Employees. As of September 27, 1998, the Company employed approximately
26,000 individuals, approximately 24,000 in retail stores and regional offices
and the remainder in the Company's administrative, specialty sales, real estate,
roasting, and warehousing operations. At fiscal year end, 11 of the Company's
stores (out of a total of 1,688 Company-operated stores in continental North
America and the United Kingdom) were unionized. Starbucks has entered into a
labor agreement governing such stores that extends until July 1999. The Company
believes that its current relations with its employees are excellent.






ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

          Starbucks currently operates four roasting and distribution facilities
- - - two in the Seattle, Washington area, one in East Manchester Township, York
County, Pennsylvania and one in London, England. In the Seattle area, the
Company leases approximately 92,000 square feet in one building pursuant to a
lease extendable through 2001 (the "Seattle Plant"), and owns an additional
roasting plant and distribution facility of approximately 305,000 square feet
and leases a warehouse facility of approximately 156,000 square feet in Kent,
Washington (the "Kent Plant"). The Company has a lease agreement executed in
August 1994 with York County Industrial Development Corporation for a roasting
and distribution facility (the "York Plant"), providing for approximately
365,000 square feet initially. The lease has a 15-year term and the Company has
an option to purchase the land and building within five years of the date of
occupancy. Such option to purchase also provides that the Company may purchase,
within seven years of occupancy, additional land adjacent to the York Plant that
would expand it to 1,000,000 square feet. The Company is party to a letter of
intent and a commitment letter which provide that in the event that the Company
exercises its option to purchase the York Plant, the Company will have the right
to assume loans incurred in connection with its development. The Company also
leases a small roasting and storage facility in London, England that supports
its operations in the United Kingdom. The lease for this facility expires in
2007 unless extended by the parties.

          The Company also leases approximately 400,000 square feet of a
building located in Seattle, Washington for administrative offices and has
options to lease approximately 150,000 additional square feet in such building.
The Company owns 2.36 acres (102,800 square feet) of undeveloped land near its
administrative offices and adjacent to the Seattle Plant, which is currently
used for parking.

          As of September 27, 1998, Starbucks operated a total of 1,688 retail
stores. All Starbucks stores are located in leased premises. The Company also
leases space in approximately 50 additional locations for regional, district and
other administrative offices, training facilities and storage, not including
spaces within retail stores used for such purposes and certain seasonal retail
storage locations.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

          The Company is a party to various legal proceedings arising in the
ordinary course of its business, but is not currently a party to any legal
proceeding which the Company believes will have a material adverse effect on the
financial position or results of operations of the Company.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

          No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fourth quarter of fiscal year 1998.



                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

         The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the section entitled "Shareholder Information" in the Company's
1998 Annual Report to Shareholders.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the section entitled "Selected Financial Data" in the Company's
1998 Annual Report to Shareholders.





ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

         The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Company's 1998 Annual
Report to Shareholders.


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

         The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Risk Management" in
the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto in the
Company's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES

         None.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

          Information concerning the directors of the Company and compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is
incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled " Proposal 1 Election
of Directors" and "Executive Compensation - Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance" in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on February 23, 1999 (the "Proxy Statement").
The Company intends to file the Proxy Statement within 120 days after the end of
its fiscal year.

          The executive officers of the Company, each of whom serves a one-year
term and until his or her successor is elected and qualified, are as follows:









         HOWARD SCHULTZ is the founder of the Company and has been chairman of
the board and chief executive officer since its inception in 1985. From 1985 to
June 1994, Mr. Schultz was also the Company's president. From September 1982 to
December 1985, Mr. Schultz was the director of Retail Operations and Marketing
for Starbucks Coffee Company, a predecessor to the Company; and from January
1986 to July 1987, he was the chairman of the board, chief executive officer and
president of Il Giornale Coffee Company, a predecessor to the Company.





          ORIN SMITH joined the Company in 1990 and has served as president and
chief operating officer of the Company since June 1994. Prior to June 1994, Mr.
Smith served as the Company's vice president and chief financial officer and
later, as its executive vice president and chief financial officer.

          HOWARD BEHAR joined the Company in 1989 and has served as president of
Starbucks Coffee International, Inc. since June 1994. From February 1993 to June
1994, Mr. Behar served as the Company's executive vice president, Sales and
Operations. From February 1991 to February 1993, Mr. Behar served as senior vice
president, Retail Operations of the Company and from August 1989 to January
1991, he served as the Company's vice president, Retail Stores.

          JOHN B. RICHARDS joined the Company in September 1997 as president,
Retail North America. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Richards served as the
Executive Vice President of Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts for 10 years. Prior
to that time Mr. Richards held various positions with McKinsey & Company and
Procter & Gamble.

          MICHAEL CASEY joined Starbucks in August 1995 as senior vice president
and chief financial officer and was promoted to executive vice president, chief
financial officer and chief administrative officer in September 1997. Prior to
joining Starbucks, Mr. Casey served as executive vice president and chief
financial officer of Family Restaurants, Inc. from its inception in 1986. During
his tenure there, he also served as a director from 1986 to 1993, and as
president and chief executive officer of its El Torito Restaurants, Inc.
subsidiary from 1988 to 1993.

          E. R. (TED) GARCIA joined Starbucks in April 1995 as senior vice
president, Supply Chain Operations and was promoted to executive vice president,
Supply Chain and Coffee Operations in September 1997. From May 1993 to April
1995, Mr. Garcia was an executive for Gemini Consulting. From January 1990 until
May 1993, he was the vice president of Operations Strategy for Grand
Metropolitan PLC, Food Sector.

          DEIDRA WAGER joined Starbucks in 1992 and served as the Company's
senior vice president, Retail Operations from August 1993 to September 1997 when
she was promoted to executive vice president, Retail Marketing and Operations.
From September 1992 to August 1993, Ms. Wager served as the Company's vice
president, Operation Services. From March 1992 to September 1992, she was the
Company's California regional manager. From September 1988 to March 1992, Ms.
Wager held several operations positions with Taco Bell(R), Inc., including
having served as its director of operations systems development.

         JAMES ALLING joined Starbucks in September 1997 as senior vice
president, Grocery and became senior vice president, Specialty Sales and
Marketing in December 1998. From 1985 to 1997, Mr. Alling held several marketing
and general management positions for Nestle, U.S.A., including serving as the
vice president and general manager of the ground coffee division.

          BRUCE CRAIG joined Starbucks in October 1992 and served as regional
and then zone vice president for the Southwest. In September 1997, Mr. Craig was
promoted to the position of senior vice president, Retail Field Operations.
Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Craig served for 21 years with Burger King Corp.
in various positions, including executive vice president/division manager and as
an owner/operator.

          SHARON E. ELLIOTT joined Starbucks in 1994 as senior vice president,
Human Resources. From September 1993 to June 1994, Ms. Elliott served as the
corporate director, staffing and development of Allied Signal Corporation. From
July 1987 to August 1993, she held several human resources management positions
with Bristol-Myers Squibb, including serving as the director of human
resources--corporate staff.

          DEBORAH GILLOTTI joined Starbucks in February 1997 as senior vice
president and chief information officer. Prior to joining Starbucks, Ms.
Gillotti served as vice president, Corporate MIS for Duracell International,
Inc. (now a division of the Gillette Company). She also held several management
positions for KPMG Peat Marwick Management Consulting from 1989 to 1993.

          WANDA HERNDON joined Starbucks in July 1995 as vice president,
Communications and Public Affairs and was promoted to senior vice president,
Communication and Public Affairs in November 1996. From February 1990 to June
1995, Ms. Herndon held several communications management positions at DuPont.
From November 1978 to 





February 1990, Ms. Herndon held several public affairs and marketing
communications positions for Dow Chemical Company.

          SHELLEY B. LANZA joined Starbucks in June 1995 as senior vice
president, Law and Corporate Affairs and general counsel. From 1986 to 1995, Ms.
Lanza served as vice president and general counsel of Honda of America
Manufacturing, Inc. From 1982 to 1986, Ms. Lanza practiced law at the law firm
of Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease in Columbus, Ohio.

          JUDY MELELIAT joined Starbucks in October 1997 as vice president,
Marketing Operations and was promoted to senior vice president, Marketing in
November 1997. Prior to joining Starbucks, Ms. Meleliat was vice president of
Marketing for InfoAccess. From September 1995 to June 1996, she served at Edmark
Corporation as the vice president of Sales for the Education Channel. From
September 1987 to September 1995, Ms. Meleliat held several executive management
positions at Egghead Software.

          DAVID M. OLSEN joined Starbucks in 1986 and served as the Company's
senior vice president, Coffee from September 1991 to October 1997. From November
1987 to September 1991, Mr. Olsen served as vice president, Coffee, and from
February 1986 to November 1987, he served as the Company's director of training.

          ARTHUR I. RUBINFELD joined the Company in 1992 as senior vice
president, Real Estate. From April 1986 to May 1992, Mr. Rubinfeld served as a
managing partner of Epsteen & Associates, a commercial real estate company.

          MICHAEL SWEENEY joined the Company in November 1998 as senior vice
president, International. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Sweeney served from
September 1995 to November 1998 as the President of Minnesota Pizza Company, a
franchise of Papa Johns, International, which operated 37 locations. From May
1992 to July 1995, Mr. Sweeney served as the President of Blockbuster
Mid-America, a franchisee of Blockbuster Entertainment, Inc. that operated 35
locations.

          DON VALENCIA joined Starbucks in November 1993 as vice president,
Research and Development and was promoted to senior vice president, Research and
Development in October 1997. From 1980 to 1993, Mr. Valencia was president of
Immuno Concepts, Incorporated, a biomedical company.

          MARY WILLIAMS joined Starbucks in March 1993 as vice president, Green
Coffee and was promoted to senior vice president, Coffee in October 1997. From
May 1988 to March 1993, Ms. Williams served as president of Klein Bros.
International, Coffee Division.

          HOWARD WOLLNER joined Starbucks in January 1992 as vice president,
Administration and was promoted to senior vice president, Administration and
Strategic Alliance Management in October 1998. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr.
Wollner was executive vice president of Watts Silverstein Associates from July
1990 to July 1991. From 1977 to 1990, Mr. Wollner was associated with Canoon &
Black Corporation where he was president of C&B Consulting Group, an employee
benefits consulting firm.

          SCOTT T. SVENSON joined Starbucks in June 1998 as chief executive
officer of Starbucks Coffee (UK) Holdings Limited following the acquisition of
Seattle Coffee Company. Mr. Svenson co-founded Seattle Coffee Company in January
1995 and served as its chief executive officer until June 1998. From September
1993 to May 1996 Mr. Svenson was a director of Crestacare plc, assuming the role
of deputy chief executive for 1995 and 1996.

         There are no family relationships between any directors or executive
officers of the Company.


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

          The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
the section entitled "Executive Compensation" in the Company's Proxy Statement.






ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
the section entitled "Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock" in the Company's
Proxy Statement.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
the section entitled "Executive Compensation - Certain Transactions" in the
Company's Proxy Statement.


                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)  The following documents are filed as a part of this Annual Report on 
          Form l0-K:

          1.Financial Statements.

              The following financial statements are incorporated by
          reference to Part II, Item 8 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report
          to Shareholders:

          Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 27, 1998 and September 
            28, 1997;
          Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the fiscal years ending
            September 27, 1998, September 28, 1997 and September 29, 1996;
          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ending
            September 27, 1998, September 28, 1997 and September 29, 1996;
          Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the fiscal
            years ending September 27, 1998, September 28, 1997 and
            September 29, 1996;
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

          2.Financial Statement Schedules.

              Financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not
          required or are not applicable, or the required information is
          provided in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto
          described in Item 14(a)(1) above.

          3.Exhibits.

              The Exhibits listed below and on the accompanying Index to
          Exhibits immediately following the signature page hereto are filed
          as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report
          on Form 10-K.

















- - -------------

*         Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


 (b)      Reports on Form 8-K.

         The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated as of and filed
         on July 9, 1998 reporting in Item 5 the completion of the acquisition
         of all of the equity interests of Seattle Coffee Company. The Current
         Report contained the audited supplemental consolidated financial
         statements listed below as of September 28, 1997 and September 29,
         1996, and for each of the three years ended September 28, 1997, which
         had been restated as if Starbucks and Seattle Coffee Company had been
         combined for all periods presented. The Current Report also contained
         the unaudited supplemental consolidated financial statements listed
         below for the first and second quarters of fiscal 1998 (the periods
         ending December 28, 1997 and March 29, 1998, respectively), which had
         also been restated as if Starbucks and Seattle Coffee Company had been
         combined for such periods.












                                   SIGNATURES

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                    STARBUCKS CORPORATION


                                    By:  /s/ Howard Schultz
                                         --------------------------------------
                                         Howard Schultz
                                         chairman of the Board of Directors and
                                           chief executive officer

December 17, 1998

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.








                                  EXHIBIT INDEX






                                      E-1






                                      E-2





- - -------------
     * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.



                                      E-3

