10-K


v03654e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, DC 20549

Form 10-K

Commission File Number: 0-20322

Starbucks Corporation

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its
Charter)

(Registrant’s Telephone Number, including
Area Code):

(206) 447-1575

Securities Registered Pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

None

Securities Registered Pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, $0.001 Par Value Per
Share

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation of S-K is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of the Registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act):     Yes

þ

No

o

The
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant, based upon the closing sale
price of the Registrant’s Common Stock on March 28,
2004 as reported on the National Market tier of The NASDAQ Stock
Market, Inc. was $13,530,521,329.

As
of December 8, 2004, there were 399,976,509 shares of the
Registrant’s Common Stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions
of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the
fiscal year ended October 3, 2004, have been incorporated
by reference into Part II of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement for
the Registrant’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
on February 9, 2005 have been incorporated by reference
into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

STARBUCKS CORPORATION

FORM 10-K

For the Fiscal Year Ended October 3,



CAUTIONARY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE PRIVATE
SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

Certain statements herein, including
anticipated store openings, trends in or expectations regarding
Starbucks Corporation’s revenue and net earnings growth,
comparable store sales growth, cash flow requirements and
capital expenditures, all constitute “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on
currently available operating, financial and competitive
information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
Actual future results and trends may differ materially depending
on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, coffee,
dairy and other raw materials prices and availability;
successful execution of internal performance and expansion
plans; fluctuations in United States and international economies
and currencies; ramifications from the war on terrorism, or
other international events or developments; the impact of
competitors’ initiatives; the effect of legal proceedings;
and other risks detailed herein and in Starbucks
Corporation’s other filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Please also see “Certain Additional
Risks and Uncertainties” in the Starbucks Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 3,
2004.

A forward-looking statement is neither a
prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances,
and those future events or circumstances may not occur. Users
should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date of this report.
Starbucks Corporation is under no obligation to update or alter
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.

PART I

Item 1.

Business

Starbucks Corporation (together with its
subsidiaries, “Starbucks” or the “Company”),
purchases and roasts high-quality whole bean coffees and sells
them, along with fresh, rich-brewed coffees, Italian-style
espresso beverages, cold blended beverages, a variety of
complementary food items, coffee-related accessories and
equipment, a selection of premium teas and a line of compact
discs, primarily through Company-operated retail stores.
Starbucks also sells coffee and tea products through other
channels and, through certain of its equity investees, Starbucks
produces and sells bottled Frappuccino®and Starbucks
DoubleShot® coffee drinks and a line of superpremium ice
creams. These nonretail channels are collectively known as
“Specialty Operations.” The Company’s objective
is to establish Starbucks as the most recognized and respected
brand in the world. To achieve this goal, the Company plans to
continue rapid expansion of its retail operations, to grow its
Specialty Operations and to selectively pursue other
opportunities to leverage the Starbucks brand through the
introduction of new products and the development of new channels
of distribution.

The Company has two operating segments, United
States and International, each of which includes
Company-operated retail stores and Specialty Operations.

Company-operated Retail Stores

The Company’s retail goal is to become the
leading retailer and brand of coffee in each of its target
markets by selling the finest quality coffee and related
products and by providing each customer a unique

Starbucks
Experience.

This third place experience, after home and
work, is built upon superior customer service as well as clean
and well-maintained Company-operated retail stores that reflect
the personalities of the communities in which they operate,
thereby building a high degree of customer loyalty. Starbucks
strategy for expanding its retail business is to increase its
market share in existing markets primarily by opening additional
stores and to open stores in new markets where the opportunity
exists to become the leading specialty coffee retailer. In
support of this strategy, Starbucks opened 634 new
Company-operated stores during the fiscal year ended
October 3, 2004 (“fiscal 2004”). Company-operated
retail stores accounted for 84% of total net revenues during
fiscal 2004.



The following table summarizes total
Company-operated retail store data for the periods indicated:

Starbucks retail stores are typically located in
high-traffic, high-visibility locations. Because the Company can
vary the size and format, its stores are located in or near a
variety of settings, including downtown and suburban retail
centers, office buildings and university campuses. While the
Company selectively locates stores in shopping malls, it focuses
on locations that provide convenient access for pedestrians and
drivers. With the flexibility in store size and format, the
Company also locates retail stores in select rural and
off-highway locations to serve a broader array of customers
outside major metropolitan markets and further expand brand
awareness. To provide a greater degree of access and convenience
for nonpedestrian customers, the Company has increased focus on
drive-thru retail stores. At the end of fiscal 2004, the Company
had approximately 700 Company-operated drive-thru locations.

All Starbucks stores offer a choice of regular
and decaffeinated coffee beverages, a broad selection of
Italian-style espresso beverages, cold blended beverages, iced
shaken refreshment beverages and a selection of teas and
distinctively packaged roasted whole bean coffees. Starbucks
stores also offer a selection of fresh pastries and other food
items, sodas, juices, coffee-making equipment and accessories, a
selection of compact discs, games and seasonal novelty items.
Each Starbucks store varies its product mix depending upon the
size of the store and its location. Larger stores carry a broad
selection of the Company’s whole bean coffees in various
sizes and types of packaging, as well as an assortment of coffee
and espresso-making equipment and accessories such as coffee
grinders, coffee filters, storage containers, travel tumblers
and mugs. Smaller Starbucks stores and kiosks typically sell a
full line of coffee beverages, a limited selection of whole bean
coffees and a few accessories such as travel tumblers and logo
mugs. In the United States and in International markets,
approximately 2,100 stores and 500 stores, respectively, carry a
selection of grab-and-go sandwiches and salads. During fiscal
2004, the Company’s retail sales mix by product type was
77% beverages, 14% food items, 5% whole bean coffees and 4%
coffee-making equipment and other merchandise.

In fiscal 2004, the Company introduced the
Starbucks Hear Music

TM

Coffeehouse, a
first-of-its-kind music store in Santa Monica, California. This
Company-operated retail location combines the Starbucks
coffeehouse experience with an innovative new retail environment
for customers to discover, acquire and enjoy music. The Hear
Music Coffeehouse gives customers a hands-on guide to music
discovery with its interactive listening bar, and allows
customers access to CD burning technology to create personalized
CDs from a digital library of music. Currently, Starbucks is
testing the CD burning technology through its Hear
Music

TM

media bars in select Starbucks
Company-operated retail stores.

Specialty Operations

The Company’s Specialty Operations strive to
develop the Starbucks brand outside the Company-operated retail
store environment through a number of channels. Starbucks
strategy is to reach customers where they work, travel, shop and
dine by establishing relationships with prominent third parties
that share the Company’s values and commitment to quality.
These relationships take various forms, including licensing
arrangements, foodservice accounts and other initiatives related
to the Company’s core businesses. In certain



situations, Starbucks has an equity ownership
interest in licensee operations. During fiscal 2004, specialty
revenues (which include royalties and fees from licensees, as
well as product sales derived from Specialty Operations)
accounted for 16% of total net revenues.

Licensing

Although the Company does not generally
relinquish operational control of its retail stores in the
United States, in situations in which a master concessionaire or
another company controls or can provide improved access to
desirable retail space, the Company licenses its operations. As
part of these arrangements, Starbucks receives license fees and
royalties and sells coffee and related products for resale in
licensed locations. Employees working in licensed retail
locations must follow Starbucks detailed store operating
procedures and attend training classes similar to those given to
Company-operated store managers and employees.

During fiscal 2004, Starbucks opened 417 licensed
retail stores in the United States. As of October 3, 2004,
the Company had 1,839 licensed stores in the United States.
Product sales to and royalty and license fees from these stores
accounted for 24% of specialty revenues in fiscal 2004.

The Company’s International licensed retail
stores are operated through a number of licensing arrangements,
primarily with prominent retailers. During fiscal 2004,
Starbucks expanded its international presence by opening 293 new
International licensed stores, including the first stores in
France and Cyprus. At fiscal year end 2004, the Company’s
International operating segment had a total of 1,515 licensed
retail stores categorized by region and located as follows:

Product sales to and royalty and license fee
revenues from International licensed retail stores accounted for
15% of specialty revenues in fiscal 2004. In total, worldwide
retail store licensing accounted for 39% of specialty revenues
in fiscal 2004.

In fiscal 2004, the Company expanded its
licensing relationship with Kraft Foods, Inc.
(“Kraft”) to include a larger selection of
Starbucks® whole bean and ground coffees, as well as
Seattle’s Best Coffee® and Torrefazione Italia®
branded coffees and a selection of premium Tazo® teas, in
grocery and warehouse club stores throughout the United States.
Kraft manages all distribution, marketing, advertising and
promotion and pays a royalty to Starbucks. By the end of fiscal
2004, the Company’s coffees and teas were available in
approximately 20,000 grocery and warehouse club stores, 19,000
in the United States and 1,000 in International markets.
Revenues from this category comprised 27% of specialty revenues
in fiscal 2004.



The Company has licensed the rights to produce
and distribute Starbucks branded products to two partnerships in
which the Company holds a 50% equity interest: The North
American Coffee Partnership with the Pepsi-Cola Company develops
and distributes bottled Frappuccino® and Starbucks
DoubleShot® coffee drinks; and the Starbucks Ice Cream
Partnership with Dreyer’s Grand Ice Cream, Inc., develops
and distributes superpremium ice creams. In fiscal 2004, the
Company entered into an agreement with Jim Beam Brands Co., a
unit of Fortune Brands, Inc., to develop, manufacture and market
a Starbucks-branded premium coffee liqueur product in the United
States. The Company conducted tests of this product in two
U.S. markets in the fiscal fourth quarter and expects to
introduce the product nationally during the fiscal second
quarter of 2005 in retail locations licensed to sell distilled
spirits, such as restaurants, bars and retail outlets where
premium distilled spirits are sold. The Company will not sell
the liqueur product in its Company-operated or licensed retail
stores. The associated revenues from this category accounted for
1% of specialty revenues in fiscal 2004.

Foodservice Accounts

The Company sells whole bean and ground coffees,
including the Starbucks, Seattle’s Best Coffee and
Torrefazione Italia brands, as well as a selection of premium
Tazo teas, to institutional foodservice companies that service
business, industry, education and healthcare accounts, office
coffee distributors, hotels, restaurants, airlines and other
retailers. Beginning in fiscal 2003, the Company transitioned
the majority of its U.S. foodservice accounts to SYSCO
Corporation’s national broadline distribution network and
aligned foodservice sales, customer service and support
resources with those of SYSCO Corporation. This alliance greatly
improved customer service levels and is expected to continue to
generate new foodservice accounts over the next several years.
Starbucks and Seattle’s Best Coffee are the only
superpremium national-brand coffees actively promoted by SYSCO
Corporation. The Company’s total worldwide foodservice
operations had approximately 13,700 foodservice accounts at
fiscal year end 2004, and revenues from these accounts comprised
31% of total specialty revenues.

Other Initiatives

The Company maintains a website at Starbucks.com
where customers may purchase, register or reload Starbucks
stored value cards, as well as apply for the Starbucks Card
Duetto

TM

Visa® (the “Duetto Card”),
issued through the Company’s agreement with Bank One
Corporation and Visa. The Duetto Card is a first-of-its-kind
card, combining the functionality of a credit card with the
convenience of a reloadable Starbucks Card. Additionally, the
website contains information about the Company’s coffee
products, brewing equipment and store locations.

In fiscal 2004, the Company entered into a
strategic marketing alliance with XM Satellite Radio related to
the debut of the 24-hour Starbucks Hear Music

TM

channel 75. This channel is available to all XM Satellite Radio
subscribers, and Starbucks customers will be able to enjoy the
same programming when it is launched in more than 4,000
Company-operated locations in the United States during fiscal
2005. Collectively, the operations of these other initiatives
accounted for 2% of specialty revenues in fiscal 2004.

Segment Financial Information

Information about the Company’s total net
revenues, earnings before income taxes, depreciation and
amortization, income from equity investees, equity method
investments and identifiable assets by segment is included in
Note 19 of the Company’s consolidated financial
statements included in Exhibit 13 to this report.

Product Supply

Starbucks is committed to selling only the finest
whole bean coffees and coffee beverages. To ensure compliance
with its rigorous coffee standards, Starbucks controls its
coffee purchasing, roasting and packaging, and the distribution
of coffee to its retail stores. The Company purchases green
coffee beans from coffee-producing regions around the world and
custom roasts them to its exacting standards for its many blends
and single origin coffees.

The supply and price of coffee are subject to
significant volatility. Although most coffee trades in the
commodity market, coffee of the quality sought by the Company
tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a



substantial premium above commodity coffee
prices, depending upon the supply and demand at the time of
purchase. Supply and price can be affected by multiple factors
in the producing countries, including weather, political and
economic conditions. In addition, green coffee prices have been
affected in the past, and may be affected in the future, by the
actions of certain organizations and associations that have
historically attempted to influence prices of green coffee
through agreements establishing export quotas or restricting
coffee supplies.

The Company depends upon its relationships with
coffee producers, outside trading companies and exporters for
its supply of green coffee. Following several years of depressed
prices, green coffee prices in most of the world markets have
been trending higher in recent years. In an effort to encourage
the continuing supply of high quality coffee and provide a
certain degree of price stability for green coffee purchases,
the Company negotiates contracts directly with its suppliers and
has been successful in securing annual contracts for the
majority of its coffee requirements on this basis. The Company
routinely enters into fixed-price purchase commitments for
future deliveries of coffee. As of October 3, 2004, the
Company had $271.7 million in fixed-price purchase
commitments, which, together with existing inventory, are
expected to provide an adequate supply of green coffee for
calendar 2005. The Company believes, based on relationships
established with its suppliers in the past, the risk of
non-delivery on such purchase commitments is low.

During fiscal 2004, Starbucks established the
Starbucks Coffee Agronomy Company S.R.L., a wholly owned
subsidiary located in Costa Rica, to reinforce the
Company’s leadership role in the coffee industry and to
help ensure sustainability and future supply of high-quality
green coffees from Central America. Staffed with agronomists and
sustainability experts, this first-of-its-kind Farmer Support
Center will be able to, among other things, proactively respond
to changes in coffee producing countries that impact farmers and
the supply of green coffee. There can be no assurance that these
activities will successfully protect the Company against the
risks of higher coffee prices or that such activities will not
result in the Company having to pay substantially more for its
coffee supply than it would have been required to pay absent
such activities.

In addition to coffee, the Company also purchases
significant amounts of dairy products to support the needs of
its Company-operated retail stores. Fluid milk is purchased from
multiple suppliers who have processing facilities near
concentrations of Company-operated retail stores. Dairy prices
in the United States, which closely follow the monthly
Class I fluid milk base price as calculated by the
U.S. Department of Agriculture, reached an all-time high
during fiscal 2004. While management monitors published dairy
prices on the related commodities markets, management cannot
predict with any certainty future prices to be paid for dairy
products.

The Company also purchases a broad range of paper
and plastic products, such as cups, lids, napkins, straws,
shopping bags and corrugated paper boxes from several companies
to support the needs of its retail stores as well as its
manufacturing and distribution operations. The cost of these
materials is somewhat dependent upon commodity paper and plastic
resin costs, but the Company believes it mitigates the effect of
short-term raw material price fluctuations through strategic
relationships with key suppliers.

Products other than whole bean coffees and coffee
beverages sold in Starbucks retail stores are obtained through a
number of different channels. Beverage ingredients, other than
coffee and milk, including leaf teas and the Company’s menu
of ready-to-drink beverages, are purchased from several
specialty manufacturers, usually pursuant to long-term supply
contracts. Food products, such as fresh pastries and lunch
items, are generally purchased from both regional and local
sources. Coffee-making equipment, such as drip and French press
coffeemakers, espresso machines and coffee grinders, are
generally purchased directly from their manufacturers.
Coffee-related accessories, including items bearing the
Company’s logos and trademarks, are produced and
distributed through contracts with a number of different
suppliers.

Competition

The Company’s primary competitors for coffee
beverage sales are restaurants, specialty coffee shops and
doughnut shops. In almost all markets in which the Company does
business, there are numerous competitors in the specialty coffee
beverage business, and management expects this situation to
continue. Although competition in the beverage market is
currently fragmented, a major competitor with substantially
greater financial, marketing and operating resources than the
Company could enter this market at any time and compete directly
against Starbucks.



The Company’s whole bean coffees compete
directly against specialty coffees sold through supermarkets,
specialty retailers and a growing number of specialty coffee
stores. Both the Company’s whole bean coffees and its
coffee beverages compete indirectly against all other coffees on
the market. The Company believes that its customers choose among
retailers primarily on the basis of product quality, service and
convenience, and, to a lesser extent, on price.

Starbucks believes that supermarkets are the most
competitive distribution channel for specialty whole bean
coffee, in part because supermarkets offer customers a variety
of choices without having to make a separate trip to a specialty
coffee store. A number of coffee manufacturers are distributing
premium coffee products in supermarkets that may serve as
substitutes for the Company’s coffees. Regional specialty
coffee companies also sell whole bean coffees in supermarkets.

In addition to the competition generated by
supermarket sales of coffee, Starbucks competes for whole bean
coffee sales with franchise operators and independent specialty
coffee stores. In virtually every major metropolitan area where
Starbucks operates and expects to expand, there are local or
regional competitors with substantial market presence in the
specialty coffee business. Starbucks Specialty Operations also
face significant competition from established wholesale and mail
order suppliers, some of whom have greater financial and
marketing resources than the Company.

The Company faces intense competition from both
restaurants and other specialty retailers for suitable sites for
new stores and qualified personnel to operate both new and
existing stores. There can be no assurance that Starbucks will
be able to continue to secure adequate sites at acceptable rent
levels or that the Company will be able to attract a sufficient
number of qualified personnel.

Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Domain
Names

The Company owns and/or has applied to register
numerous trademarks and service marks in the United States and
in nearly 150 additional countries throughout the world. Rights
to the trademarks and service marks in the United States are
generally held by a wholly owned affiliate of the Company and
are used by the Company under license. Some of the
Company’s trademarks, including Starbucks®, the
Starbucks logo and Frappuccino®, as well as other acquired
trademarks and trade names such as Seattle’s Best
Coffee® and Tazo®, are of material importance to the
Company. The duration of trademark registrations varies from
country to country. However, trademarks are generally valid and
may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or
their registrations are properly maintained.

The Company owns numerous copyrights for items
such as product packaging, promotional materials, in-store
graphics and training materials. The Company also holds patents
on certain products, systems and designs. In addition, the
Company has registered and maintains numerous Internet domain
names, including “Starbucks.com” and
“Starbucks.net.”

Research and Development

The Company’s research and development
efforts are led by food scientists, engineers, chemists and
culinarians in the Research and Development department. This
team is responsible for the technical development of food and
beverage products and new equipment. Recent development efforts
have resulted in new brewing and espresso-making equipment,
successful flavor line extensions for espresso-based beverages,
Frappuccino® Light blended coffees and new items for the
Company’s morning pastry and lunch lines. The Company spent
approximately $6.5 million, $5.4 million and
$3.6 million during fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively, on technical research and development activities,
in addition to customary product testing and product and process
improvements in all areas of its business.

Seasonality and Quarterly Results

The Company’s business is subject to
seasonal fluctuations. Significant portions of the
Company’s net revenues and profits are realized during the
first quarter of the fiscal year, which includes the December
holiday season. In addition, quarterly results are affected by
the timing of the opening of new stores, and the Company’s
rapid growth may conceal the impact of other seasonal
influences. Because of the seasonality of



the business, results for any quarter are not
necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for
the full fiscal year.

Employees

As of October 3, 2004, the Company employed
approximately 96,700 people worldwide. In the United States,
Starbucks employed approximately 82,000 people, 76,200 in
Company-operated retail stores and the remainder in the
Company’s administrative and regional offices, and store
development, roasting and warehousing operations. Approximately
14,700 employees were employed in International Company-operated
retail stores and regional support facilities. At fiscal year
end, employees at 10 of the Company’s Canadian stores and a
group of 13 maintenance mechanics and technicians at one
U.S. roasting plant were represented by unions. The Company
believes its efforts to recruit, train and retain qualified
employees have been successful, and that its current relations
with its employees are good.

Certain Additional Risks and
Uncertainties

Market expectations for the Company’s
financial performance are high, and Starbucks stock often trades
at a significant multiple to expected earnings per share.
Failure to meet these market expectations could cause the price
of the Company’s common stock to drop rapidly and sharply.
Investing in Starbucks common stock entails assuming the risk
that the Company may not meet the market’s high
expectations.

The Company’s long-term goal is to open
approximately 15,000 stores in the United States and at least
15,000 stores in International markets. Management expects
annual total net revenue growth of approximately 20% and annual
earnings per share growth of approximately 20-25% for the next
three to five year period. Managing rapid growth can be
challenging, and any failure to execute that growth effectively
could adversely impact the Company’s business, financial
condition and results of operations.

The Company’s financial performance is
highly dependent upon the U.S. retail operations, which
comprised 72% of consolidated total net revenues at fiscal
year-end 2004. Any substantial, sustained decline in these
operations would have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s business, financial condition and results of
operations. Declines in financial performance could arise from,
among other things:

•

failure to identify and secure real estate
    locations sufficient to meet annual targets for store openings;

•

shortfalls in comparable store sales or revenue
    growth compared to management’s expectations; and

•

negative trends in operating expenses.

The Company’s International stores and
licensees may not be successful in their operations or in
achieving expected growth. Some factors critical to the success
of the Company’s International stores and licensees are
different than those affecting the United States stores and
licensees. Tastes naturally vary by region, and consumers in new
International markets into which Starbucks and its licensees
expand may not embrace products and services to the same extent
as consumers in the Company’s existing U.S. markets.
Occupancy costs and store operating expenses are sometimes
higher internationally than in the United States due to higher
rents for prime, inner-city store locations or due to local laws
that make it more expensive to retain or terminate employees.
The Company’s International operations are also subject to
the inherent risks of foreign currency fluctuations and changes
in economic, social and political conditions. Because many of
the Company’s International operations are in an early
phase of development and have country-specific regulatory
requirements, operating expenses as a percentage of related
revenues are often higher, compared to similar financial metrics
for the United States operations.

Future operating results for the Company may
fluctuate, perhaps significantly, depending upon a number of
factors which include, but are not limited to, the following:

•

the Company’s ability to continue to
    increase net revenues and operating income in the United States
    operating segment;

•

the Company’s ability to grow operating
    income in the International operating segment;

•

the Company’s ability to integrate or
    leverage resources from domestic or foreign acquisitions;



•

the impact of recording the cost of stock option
    grants as an expense in the consolidated statements of
    earnings; and

•

the general economic conditions in the markets in
    which the Company operates.

Available Information

The Company’s annual reports on
Form 10-K, along with all other reports and amendments
filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission are publicly available free of charge on the Investor
Relations section of the Company’s website at
www.starbucks.com/aboutus/investor.asp as soon as reasonably
practicable after the Company files such materials with, or
furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
Company’s corporate governance policies, ethics code and
Board of Directors’ committee charters are also posted
within this section of the website. The information on the
Company’s website is not part of this or any other report
Starbucks files with, or furnishes to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission.

Item 2.

Properties

The following table shows properties used by
Starbucks in connection with its roasting and distribution
operations:

The Company leases approximately
780,000 square feet of a building located in Seattle,
Washington for administrative offices and has options to lease
approximately 240,000 additional square feet in the same
building. The Company owns 2.4 acres of undeveloped land
near its administrative offices that is used for parking.

As of October 3, 2004, Starbucks had a total
of 5,215 Company-operated retail stores, of which nearly all are
located in leased premises. The Company also leases space in
approximately 90 additional locations for regional, district and
other administrative offices, training facilities and storage,
not including certain seasonal retail storage locations.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

The Company is party to various legal proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of its business, but it is not
currently a party to any legal proceeding that management
believes would have a material adverse effect on the financial
position or results of operations of the Company.



Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fiscal fourth quarter of 2004.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Company are as
follows:

Howard Schultz

is
the founder of the Company and has been chairman of the board
since 1985. Mr. Schultz served as chief executive officer
from 1985 until June 2000, when he transitioned into the role of
chief global strategist. From 1985 to June 1994,
Mr. Schultz was also the Company’s president. From
September 1982 to December 1985, Mr. Schultz was the
director of Retail Operations and Marketing for Starbucks Coffee
Company, and from January 1986 to July 1987, he was the chairman
of the board, chief executive officer and president of
Il Giornale Coffee Company, a predecessor to the Company.

Orin C. Smith

joined
the Company in 1990 and has served as president and chief
executive officer of the Company since June 2000. From June 1994
to June 2000, Mr. Smith served as the Company’s
president and chief operating officer. Prior to June 1994,
Mr. Smith served as the Company’s vice president and
chief financial officer and later, as its executive vice
president and chief financial officer. Mr. Smith announced
his intention to retire as the Company’s president and
chief executive officer, effective March 31, 2005.

James L. Donald

joined Starbucks in October 2002 as
president, North America and was promoted to ceo designate in
October 2004. Mr. Donald will become the Company’s
president and chief executive officer upon Mr. Smith’s
retirement on March 31, 2005. Prior to joining Starbucks,
Mr. Donald served as chairman, president and chief
executive officer of Pathmark Stores, Inc. from 1996 to 2002.
From 1994 to 1996, he served as president and manager of
Safeway’s 130-store Eastern Division. From 1991 to 1994
Mr. Donald was an executive with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. From
1976 to 1991, he held several managerial positions with
Albertson’s, Inc.

James C. Alling

joined Starbucks in September 1997 as
senior vice president, Grocery and was promoted to president,
Starbucks Coffee U.S. in October 2004. Mr. Alling held a
number of positions as senior vice president from September 1997
until November 2003, when he was promoted to executive vice
president, Business and Operations — United States.
Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Alling held several senior
positions at Nestlé from 1985 to 1997 and served as vice
president and general manager of several divisions, including
ground coffee.

Martin Coles

joined
Starbucks in April 2004 as president, Starbucks Coffee
International. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Coles served
as executive vice president of Global Operating Units for
Reebok, Ltd from December 2001 to February 2004. From February
2001 to December 2001, Mr. Coles was senior vice president,
International Operations for Gateway, Inc. From February 2000 to
January 2001, Mr. Coles was president and chief executive
officer of Letsbuyit.com. From September 1992 to February 2000,
Mr. Coles



held several executive level general management,
sales and operations positions for NIKE Inc.’s Global and
European operations.

Michael Casey

joined
Starbucks in August 1995 as senior vice president and chief
financial officer and was promoted to executive vice president,
chief financial officer and chief administrative officer in
September 1997. Prior to joining Starbucks, Mr. Casey
served as executive vice president and chief financial officer
of Family Restaurants, Inc. from its inception in 1986. During
his tenure there, he also served as a director from 1986 to
1993, and as president and chief executive officer of its
El Torito Restaurants, Inc. subsidiary from 1988 to 1993.

Paula E. Boggs

joined Starbucks in September 2002 as
executive vice president, general counsel and secretary. Prior
to joining Starbucks, Ms. Boggs served as vice president,
legal, for products, operations and information technology at
Dell Computer Corporation from 1997 to 2002. From 1995 to 1997,
Ms. Boggs was a partner with the law firm of Preston
Gates & Ellis. Ms. Boggs served in several roles
at the Pentagon, White House and U.S. Department of Justice
between 1984 and 1995.

Dorothy J. Kim

joined Starbucks in November 1995 and
was promoted to executive vice president, Supply Chain and
Coffee Operations in December 2004. From April 2003 to December
2004, Ms. Kim was senior vice president, Global Logistics,
Planning and Procurement. From April 2002 to April 2003,
Ms. Kim was vice president, Supply Chain and Coffee
Operations, Logistics, and from October 2000 to April 2002,
Ms. Kim was vice president, Supply Chain and Coffee
Operations, Finance and Systems. Prior to becoming a vice
president, Ms. Kim held several positions in retail
planning and operations.

David A. Pace

joined
Starbucks in July 2002 as executive vice president of Partner
Resources. From 2000 to 2002, Mr. Pace was the president of
i2 Technologies. From 1999 to 2000, Mr. Pace served as
the chief human resources officer for HomeGrocer.com. From 1995
to 1999, he served as senior vice president of human resources
for Tricon Restaurants International (now YUM! Brands, Inc.).

There are no family relationships between any
directors or executive officers of the Company.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for the Registrant’s Common
    Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
    Equity Securities

The following table provides information
regarding repurchases by the Company of its common stock during
the 14-week period ended October 3, 2004:

Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities

(1)

Monthly information is presented by reference to
    the Company’s fiscal months during the fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2004.

(2)

On June 19, 2002, the Company announced a
    share repurchase plan to repurchase up to ten million shares of
    its common stock. On March 31, 2003, the Company announced
    a share repurchase plan to repurchase up to an additional ten
    million shares of its common stock. On September 23, 2004,
    the



Company announced a share repurchase plan to
    repurchase up to an additional nine million shares of its common
    stock. None of these plans have an expiration date.

The information required by this item other than
“Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” is
incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled
“Shareholder Information” in the Company’s Fiscal
2004 Annual Report to Shareholders, and is also attached in
Exhibit 13 hereto.

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

The information required by this item is
incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled
“Selected Financial Data” in the Company’s Fiscal
2004 Annual Report to Shareholders, and is also attached in
Exhibit 13 hereto.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The information required by this item is
incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” in the Company’s
Fiscal 2004 Annual Report to Shareholders, and is also attached
in Exhibit 13 hereto.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk

The information required by this item is
incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Commodity
Prices, Availability and General Risk Conditions” and
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Financial Risk
Management” in the Company’s Fiscal 2004 Annual Report
to Shareholders, and is also attached in Exhibit 13 hereto.

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data

The information required by this item is
incorporated herein by reference to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and the notes thereto in the Company’s Fiscal
2004 Annual Report to Shareholders, and is also attached in
Exhibit 13 hereto.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

The Company carried out an evaluation, under the
supervision and with the participation of the Company’s
management, including the chief executive officer and the chief
financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and
operation of the disclosure controls and procedures, as defined
in Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Based
upon that evaluation, the Company’s chief executive officer
and chief financial officer concluded that the Company’s
disclosure controls and procedures are effective, as of the end
of the period covered by this Report (October 3, 2004), in
ensuring that material information relating to Starbucks
Corporation, including its consolidated subsidiaries, required
to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or
submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms,
including ensuring that such material information is accumulated
and communicated to the Company’s management, including the
Company’s chief executive officer and chief financial
officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosure.

There were no significant changes in the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as
required by the Exchange Act) that occurred during the last
fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal
controls over financial reporting.

At the end of fiscal 2005, Section 404 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require the Company’s
management to provide an assessment of the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial



reporting, and the Company’s independent
registered public accounting firm will be required to audit
management’s assessment. The Company is in the process of
performing the system and process documentation, evaluation and
testing required for management to make this assessment and for
its independent auditors to provide its attestation report. The
Company has not completed this process or its assessment, and
this process will require significant amounts of management time
and resources. In the course of evaluation and testing,
management may identify deficiencies that will need to be
addressed and remediated.

Item 9B.

Other Information

None.

PART III

As used in this Part III,
“Starbucks” and the “Company” mean Starbucks
Corporation.

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant

The information required by this item regarding
the Company’s directors is incorporated herein by reference
to the sections entitled “Proposal 1 —
Election of Directors” and “Executive
Compensation — Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance” in the Company’s definitive
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on February 9, 2005 (the “Proxy Statement”).
Information regarding the Company’s executive officers is
set forth in Item 4 of Part 1 of this report under the
caption “Executive Officers of the Registrant.”

The Company adopted a code of ethics applicable
to its chief executive officer, chief financial officer,
controller and other finance leaders, which is a “code of
ethics” as defined by applicable rules of the Securities
and Exchange Commission. This code is publicly available on the
Company’s website at
www.starbucks.com/aboutus/corporate

governance.asp.
If the Company makes any amendments to this code other than
technical, administrative or other non-substantive amendments,
or grants any waivers, including implicit waivers, from a
provision of this code to the Company’s chief executive
officer, chief financial officer or controller, the Company will
disclose the nature of the amendment or waiver, its effective
date and to whom it applies on its website or in a report on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to the section entitled
“Executive Compensation” in the Proxy Statement.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management

The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to the sections entitled
“Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock” and
“Executive Compensation — Equity Compensation
Plan Information” in the Proxy Statement.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions

The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to the section entitled
“Executive Compensation — Certain Transactions
and Compensation Arrangements” in the Proxy Statement.

Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and
    Services

The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to the sections entitled
“Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Fees”
and “Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and
Permissible Non-Audit Services of the Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm” in the Proxy Statement.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement
    Schedules

(a) The following documents are filed as a
part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:

1.     Financial
Statements

The following financial statements are
incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K:

2.     Financial
Statement Schedules

Financial statement schedules are omitted because
they are not required or are not applicable, or the required
information is provided in the consolidated financial statements
or notes thereto described in Item 15(a)(1) above.

3.     Exhibits

The Exhibits listed in the Index to Exhibits,
which appears immediately following the signature page and is
incorporated herein by reference, are filed as part of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

POWER OF ATTORNEY

Know all persons by these presents, that each
person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints
Howard Schultz and Orin C. Smith, and each of them, as such
person’s true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with
full power of substitution and resubstitution, for such person
and in such person’s name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Report, and
to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents
in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and
each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each
and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in
connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as
such person might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming that all said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of
them or their or such person’s substitute or substituted,
may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue thereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





INDEX TO EXHIBITS


*

Denotes a compensatory plan, contract or
    arrangement, in which the Company’s directors or executive
    officers may participate.