ITEM 1.  Business



General



We believe we are the largest distributor of healthcare products and services primarily to office-based healthcare practitioners.  We serve more than 700,000 customers worldwide, including dental practitioners and laboratories, physician practices and animal health clinics, as well as government and other institutions.  We believe that we have a strong brand identity due to our more than 78 years of experience distributing healthcare products.



We are headquartered in Melville, New York, employ more than 13,500 people (of which over 6,000 are based outside the United States) and have operations in the United States, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.  We also have affiliates in Iceland, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates.



We have established strategically located distribution centers to enable us to better serve our customers and increase our operating efficiency.  This infrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive prices, and a strong commitment to customer service, enables us to be a single source of supply for our customers’ needs.  Our infrastructure also allows us to provide convenient ordering and rapid, accurate and complete order fulfillment.



We conduct our business through two reportable segments: healthcare distribution and technology.  These segments offer different products and services to the same customer base.  The healthcare distribution reportable segment aggregates our dental, medical, animal health and international operating segments.  This segment consists of consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large dental equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products and vitamins.Our technology group provides software, technology and other value-added services to healthcare practitioners, primarily in the United States, Canada, the United Kin
gdom, Australia and New Zealand.  Our value-added practice solutions include practice management software systems for dental and medical practitioners and animal health clinics.  Our technology group offerings also include financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services and continuing education services for practitioners.



Industry



The healthcare products distribution industry, as it relates to office-based healthcare practitioners, is highly fragmented and diverse.  This industry, which encompasses the dental, medical and animal health markets, was estimated to produce revenues of approximately $28 billion in 2010 in the combined North American, European and Australian/New Zealand markets.  The industry ranges from sole practitioners working out of relatively small offices to group practices or service organizations ranging in size from a few practitioners to a large number of practitioners who have combined or otherwise associated their practices.



Due in part to the inability of office-based healthcare practitioners to store and manage large quantities of supplies in their offices, the distribution of healthcare supplies and small equipment to office-based healthcare practitioners has been characterized by frequent, small quantity orders, and a need for rapid, reliable and substantially complete order fulfillment.  The purchasing decisions within an office-based healthcare practice are typically made by the practitioner or an administrative assistant.  Supplies and small equipment are generally purchased from more than one distributor, with one generally serving as the primary supplier.





The healthcare products distribution industry continues to experience growth due to the aging population, increased healthcare awareness, the proliferation of medical technology and testing, new pharmacology treatments and expanded third-party insurance coverage, partially offset by the affects of increased unemployment on insurance coverage.  In addition, the physician market continues to benefit from the shift of procedures and diagnostic testing from acute care settings to alternate-care sites, particularly physicians’ offices.



We believe that consolidation within the industry will continue to result in a number of distributors, particularly those with limited financial and marketing resources, seeking to combine with larger companies that can provide growth opportunities.  This consolidation also may continue to result in distributors seeking to acquire companies that can enhance their current product and service offerings or provide opportunities to serve a broader customer base.



In recent years, the healthcare industry has increasingly focused on cost containment.  This trend has benefited distributors capable of providing a broad array of products and services at low prices.  It also has accelerated the growth of HMOs, group practices, other managed care accounts and collective buying groups, which, in addition to their emphasis on obtaining products at competitive prices, tend to favor distributors capable of providing specialized management information support.  We believe that the trend towards cost containment has the potential to favorably affect demand for technology solutions, including software, which can enhance the efficiency and facilitation of practice management.



Competition



The distribution and manufacture of healthcare supplies and equipment is highly competitive.  Many of the healthcare distribution products we sell are available to our customers from a number of suppliers.  In addition, our competitors could obtain exclusive rights from manufacturers to market particular products.  Manufacturers also could seek to sell directly to end-users, and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors.





We also face significant competition internationally, where we compete on the basis of price and customer service against several large competitors, including the GACD Group, Pluradent AG & Co., Planmeca Oy, Arseus NV, Billericay Dental Supply Co. Ltd., National Veterinary Services and Alcyon SA, as well as a large number of dental, medical and animal health product distributors and manufacturers in Australia, Austria, Belgium, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey and the United Kingdom.





Significant price reductions by our competitors could result in a similar reduction in our prices.  Any of these competitive pressures may materially adversely affect our operating results.

Competitive Strengths



We have more than 78 years of experience in distributing products to healthcare practitioners resulting in strong awareness of the “Henry Schein” brand.  Our competitive strengths include:



Direct sales and marketing expertise.  Our sales and marketing efforts are designed to establish and solidify customer relationships through personal visits by field sales representatives, frequent direct marketing and telesales contact, emphasizing our broad product lines, including exclusive distribution agreements, competitive prices and ease of order placement.  The key elements of our direct sales and marketing efforts are:•Field sales consultants.  We have approximately 3,100 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, covering major North American, European and other international markets.  These consultants complement our direct marketing and telesales efforts and enable us to better market, service and support the sale of more sophisticated products and equipment.



•Direct marketing.  During 2010, we distributed approximately 30.8 million pieces of direct marketing material, including catalogs, flyers, order stuffers and other promotional materials to existing and potential office-based healthcare customers.



•Telesales.We support our direct marketing effort with approximately 1,600 inbound and outbound telesales representatives, who facilitate order processing and generate new sales through direct and frequent contact with customers.



Broad product and service offerings at competitive prices.  We offer a broad range of products and services to our customers, at competitive prices, in the following categories:



•Consumable supplies and equipment.  We offer over 90,000 Stock Keeping Units, or SKUs, to our customers.  Of the SKUs offered, approximately 51,000 are offered to our dental customers, approximately 38,000 to our medical customers and approximately 21,000 to our animal health customers.  We offer over 100,000 additional SKUs to our customers in the form of special order items.

•Technology and other value-added products and services.  We sell practice management software systems to our dental, medical and animal health customers.  Our practice management and electronic medical records software solutions provide practitioners with patient treatment history, billing, accounts receivable analyses and management, appointment calendars, electronic claims processing and word processing programs.  As of December 25, 2010, we have an active user base of more than 70,000 practices, including Dentrix®, Easy Dental®, Oasis® and EXACT® for dental practices, MicroMD® for physician practices and AVImark® and DVM Manager® for animal health clinics.



•Repair services.We have 188 equipment sales and service centers worldwide that provide a variety of repair, installation and technical services for our healthcare customers.  Our ProRepair technicians provide installation and repair services for dental handpieces; dental, medical and animal health small equipment; table top sterilizers; and large dental equipment.

•Financial services.We offer our customers solutions in operating their practices by providing access to a number of financial services and products (including non-recourse financing for equipment, technology and software products; non-recourse patient financing; collection services and credit card processing) at rates that we believe are generally lower than what they would be able to secure independently.  We also provide dental practice valuation and brokerage services.





Commitment to superior customer service.  We maintain a strong commitment to providing superior customer service.  We frequently monitor our customer service through customer surveys, focus groups and statistical reports.  Our customer service policy primarily focuses on:



•Exceptional order fulfillment.  Approximately 99% of items ordered in the United States and Canada are shipped without back ordering and are shipped on the same business day the order is received.



•Streamlined ordering process.  Customers may place orders 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by mail, fax, telephone, e-mail, Internet and by using our computerized order entry systems.



Integrated management information systems.  Our information systems generally allow for centralized management of key functions, including accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable, payroll, purchasing, sales and order fulfillment.  These systems allow us to manage our growth, deliver superior customer service, properly target customers, manage financial performance and monitor daily operational statistics.



Cost-effective purchasing.  We believe that cost-effective purchasing is a key element to maintaining and enhancing our position as a competitive-pricing provider of healthcare products.  We continuously evaluate our purchase requirements and suppliers’ offerings and prices in order to obtain products at the lowest possible cost.  In 2010, our top 10 healthcare distribution suppliers and our single largest supplier accounted for approximately 31% and 8%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases.



Efficient distribution.  We distribute our products from our strategically located distribution centers.  We strive to maintain optimal inventory levels in order to satisfy customer demand for prompt delivery and complete order fulfillment.  These inventory levels are managed on a daily basis with the aid of our management information systems.  Once an order is entered, it is electronically transmitted to the distribution center nearest the customer’s location and a packing slip for the entire order is printed for order fulfillment.





Products



The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net sales by principal categories of products offered through our healthcare distribution and technology reportable segments:



201020092008Healthcare DistributionDental:Consumable dental products, dental laboratory productsand small equipment (1)42.2%45.9%46.4%Large dental equipment (2)15.517.117.9Total dental57.763.064.3Medical products (3)19.223.422.9Animal health products (4)20.411.010.2Total Healthcare Distribution97.397.497.4TechnologySoftware and related products andother value-added products (5)2.72.62.6Total100.0%100.0%100.0%



(1)Includes X-ray products, infection-control products, handpieces, preventatives, impression materials, composites, anesthetics, teeth, dental implants, gypsum, acrylics, articulators and abrasives.



(2)Includes dental chairs, delivery units and lights, X-ray equipment, equipment repair and high-tech equipment.



(3)Includes branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products, X-ray products, equipment and vitamins.



(4)Includes branded and generic pharmaceuticals, surgical and consumable products and services and equipment.



(5)Includes software and related products and other value-added products, including financial products and continuing education.





Business Strategy



Our objective is to continue to expand as a value-added distributor of healthcare products and services to office-based healthcare practitioners.  To accomplish this, we will apply our competitive strengths in executing the following strategies:



•Increase penetration of our existing customer base.  We have over 700,000 customers worldwide and we intend to increase sales to our existing customer base and enhance our position as their primary supplier.



•Increase the number of customers we serve.  This strategy includes increasing the number and productivity of field sales consultants, as well as using our customer database to focus our marketing efforts.



•Leverage our value-added products and services.  We continue to increase cross-selling efforts for key product lines.  In the dental business, we have significant cross-selling opportunities between our dental practice management software users and our dental distribution customers.  In the medical business, we have opportunities to expand our vaccine, injectables and other pharmaceuticals sales to medical distribution customers, as well as cross-selling core products and practice management software with these key products.  In the animal health business, we have opportunities to cross-sell practice management software and other products.



•Pursue strategic acquisitions and joint ventures.  Our acquisition strategy includes acquiring businesses and entering into joint ventures complementary to ours that will provide, among other things, additional sales to be channeled through our existing distribution infrastructure, access to additional product lines and field sales consultants and an opportunity to further expand into new geographic markets.



Markets Served



Demographic trends indicate that our markets are growing, as an aging U.S. population is increasingly using healthcare services.  Between 2010 and 2020, the 45 and older population is expected to grow by approximately 15%.  Between 2010 and 2030, this age group is expected to grow by approximately 29%.  This compares with expected total U.S. population growth rates of approximately 10% between 2010 and 2020 and approximately 20% between 2010 and 2030.



In the dental industry, there is predicted to be a rise in oral healthcare expenditures as the 45 and older segment of the population increases.  Cosmetic dentistry is another growing aspect of dental practices as new technologies allow dentists to offer cosmetic solutions that patients seek.  At the same time, there is an expected increase in dental insurance coverage.



We support our dental professionals through the many SKUs that we offer, as well as through important value-added services, including practice management software, electronic claims processing, financial services and continuing education, all designed to help maximize a practitioner’s efficiency.



There continues to be a migration of procedures from acute-care settings to physicians’ offices, a trend that we believe provides additional opportunities for us.  There also is the continuing use of vaccines, injectables and other pharmaceuticals in alternate-care settings.  We believe we have established a leading position as a vaccine supplier to the office-based physician practitioner.



We believe our international group is a leading European healthcare supplier servicing office-based dental, medical and animal health practices.  We are in the process of implementing SAP software across continental Europe.  Additionally, we are expanding our dental full-service model and our animal health presence in Europe, as well as our medical offerings in countries where opportunities exist.  Through our “Schein Direct” program, we also have the capability to provide door-to-door air package delivery to practitioners in over 200 countries around the world.



For information on revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area, see Note 15 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which is incorporated herein by reference.





Seasonality and Other Factors Affecting Our Business and Quarterly Results



We experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings.  As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline.



Our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations.  Net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners and year-end promotions.  Net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters.  We expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future.  Quarterly results also may be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including:



•costs of developing new applications and services;•costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses;•timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures;•timing of pricing changes offered by our vendors;•timing of the introduction of new products and services by our vendors;•changes in or availability of vendor contracts or rebate programs;•vendor rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals;•changes in the way vendors introduce or deliver products to market;•exclusivity requirements with certain vendors may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other vendors;•loss of sales representatives;•general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare industry and related industries;•timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services;•our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships;•restructuring costs;•changes in accounting principles;•unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products;•product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers;•exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; and•increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers.

Any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to fluctuate.  If our operating results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline.





Governmental Regulations



Certain of our businesses involve the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and in this regard we are subject to various local, state, federal and foreign governmental laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices.  Among the federal laws applicable to us are the Controlled Substances Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987, and Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act.  We are also subject to comparable foreign regulations.



The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act generally regulates the introduction, manufacture, advertising, labeling, packaging, storage, handling, reporting, marketing and distribution of, and record keeping for, pharmaceuticals and medical devices shipped in interstate commerce, and states may similarly regulate such activities within the state.  Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act, which provides authority to prevent the spread of communicable diseases, serves as the legal basis for the United States Food and Drug Administration’s regulation of human cells, tissues, and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as HCT/P products.



The Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987, or PDMA, which amended the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, establishes certain requirements applicable to the wholesale distribution of prescription drugs, including the requirement that wholesale drug distributors be licensed by each state in which they conduct business, provide certain drug pedigree information on the distribution of prescription drugs and act in accordance with federally established guidelines on storage, handling and record maintenance.



Under the Controlled Substances Act, as a distributor of controlled substances, we are required to obtain a registration annually from the United States Drug Enforcement Administration and are subject to other regulatory requirements relating to the sale, marketing, handling and distribution of such drugs, in accordance with specified rules and regulations.  We are subject to inspection by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration.





Certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) healthcare fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws, and regulations with respect to their operations.  Such laws prohibit, among other things, the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement, and soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing, of items or services that are paid for by government health care programs (known as “anti-kickback” laws). Violations of these laws could result in civil and criminal penalties.  The fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject





to heightened enforcement activity over the past few years, particularly through “relators,” who serve as whistleblowers by filing complaints in the name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state False Claims Act statutes, and an anti-kickback violation could be a basis for a False Claims action.  These laws and regulations are subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation, and can have a material adverse impact on us if a violation is found.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, enacted in March 2010, known as The Health Care Reform Bill or PPACA, significantly strengthened the federal False Claims Act, and the anti-kickback provisions, which could lead to the possibility of increased whistleblower or relator suits.



PPACA also included other provisions to reduce fraud and abuse and Medicare expenditures and the cost of healthcare generally, to increase federal oversight of private health insurance plans and to provide access to health coverage for an additional 32 million people, some of which impact and further regulate some of our businesses. In addition to the foregoing, PPACA imposed new reporting and disclosure requirements for pharmaceutical and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain practitioners, including physicians and dentists, and teaching hospitals beginning in January 2012.  A provision in PPACA requiring those without insurance to pay a penalty was recently declared unconstitutional by a Virginia federal district court, which permitted other provisions of the legislation that
 do not relate to health insurance, as well as those provisions that could improve insurance coverage, to remain in effect.  PPACA in its entirety was declared unconstitutional by a Florida federal district court on January 31, 2011.  Two other federal district courts (in Michigan and Virginia) have affirmed the constitutionality of PPACA.  Appeals are pending, and the matter is expected to be determined by the Supreme Court of the United States.



Certain of our businesses also maintain contracts with governmental agencies and are subject to certain regulatory requirements specific to government contractors.





The United States Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, which went into effect on September 27, 2007, requires the United States Food and Drug Administration to establish standards and identify and validate effective technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs.  These standards include any track and trace or authentication technologies, such as RFID and other technologies.  The United States Food and Drug Administration has indicated that it is currently drafting a proposed rule as required by the statute.  The United States Food and Drug Administration has also indicated that it is developing a proposal to require unique device identifiers for medical devices.





Certain of our businesses involve access to personal health, medical, financial and other information of individuals, and are accordingly directly or indirectly subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of such information, and require, among other things, the implementation of various recordkeeping, operational, notice and other practices intended to safeguard that information, limit its use to allowed purposes, and notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches.  As a result of the federal Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH Act), which was passed in 2009, some of our businesses that were previously only indirectly subject to federal HIPAA privacy and security rules became directly subject to such ru
les because such businesses serve as “business associates” of HIPAA covered entities, such as health care providers. Additional rules under the HITECH Act are expected to be issued in early 2011, further expanding the privacy and security requirements applicable to some of our businesses.



In addition, United States and international import and export laws and regulations require us to abide by certain standards relating to the importation and exportation of products.  We also are subject to certain laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records.



While we believe that we are substantially compliant with the foregoing laws and regulations promulgated thereunder and possess all material permits and licenses required for the conduct of our business, there can be no assurance that regulations that impact our business or customers’ practices will not have a material adverse impact on our business.  As a result of political, economic and regulatory influences, the healthcare distribution industry in the United States is under intense scrutiny and subject to fundamental changes.  We cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us.



See “ITEM 1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of additional regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition.



Proprietary Rights



We hold trademarks relating to the “Henry Schein” name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks.  Pursuant to agreements executed in connection with our reorganization in 1994, both Henry Schein, Inc. and Schein Pharmaceutical, Inc. (which was acquired by Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2000), a company previously engaged in the manufacture and distribution of multi-source pharmaceutical products, are entitled to use the “Schein” name in connection with their respective businesses, but Schein Pharmaceutical, Inc. must always use “Schein” in combination with the word “Pharmaceutical” and is not entitled to use the name “Henry Schein” or to use “Schein” alone or with any other word (other than “Pharmaceutical”).  We intend to protec
t our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable.



Employees



As of December 25, 2010, we employed more than 13,500 full-time employees, including approximately 1,600 telesales representatives, 3,100 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 2,575 ware­house employees, 600 computer programmers and technicians, 1,250 management employees and 4,775 office, clerical and administrative employees.  Approximately 305 or 2.3% of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements.  We believe that our relations with our employees are excellent.





Available Information



We make available free of charge through our Internet Web site,www.henryschein.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on Forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) and Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC.



The above information is also available at the SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy at United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-0213 or obtainable by calling the SEC at (800) 732-0330.  In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet Web site atwww.sec.gov, where the above information can be viewed.



Our principal executive offices are located at 135 Duryea Road, Melville, New York 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500.  Unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the “Company,” “Henry Schein,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Henry Schein, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.





Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers:



NameAgePositionStanley M. Bergman61Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, DirectorGerald A. Benjamin58Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, DirectorJames P. Breslawski57President, Chief Operating Officer, DirectorLeonard A. David62Senior Vice President, Chief Compliance OfficerJames Harding55Senior Vice President, Chief Technology OfficerStanley Komaroff75Senior AdvisorMark E. Mlotek55Executive Vice President, Corporate Business Development, DirectorSteven Paladino53Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, DirectorMichael Racioppi56Senior Vice President, Chief Merchandising OfficerLonnie Shoff52President, Global Healthcare Specialties GroupMichael Zack58President, International Group



Stanley M. Bergmanhas been our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1989 and a director since 1982.  Mr. Bergman held the position of President from 1989 to 2005.  Mr. Bergman held the position of Executive Vice President from 1985 to 1989 and Vice President of Finance and Administration from 1980 to 1985.



Gerald A. Benjaminhas been our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since 2000 and a director since 1994.  Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Benjamin was Senior Vice President of Administration and Customer Satisfaction since 1993.  Mr. Benjamin was Vice President of Distribution Operations from 1990 to 1992 and Director of Materials Management from 1988 to 1990.  Before joining us in 1988, Mr. Benjamin was employed for 13 years in various management positions at Estée Lauder, Inc., where his last position was Director of Materials Planning and Control.



James P. Breslawskihas been our President and Chief Operating Officer since 2005 and a director since 1992.  Mr. Breslawski held the position of Executive Vice President and President of U.S. Dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the North American Dental Group.  Between 1980 and 1990, Mr. Breslawski held various positions with us, including Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance and Administration and Controller.



Leonard A. Davidhas been our Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer since 2006.  Mr. David held the position of Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer from 2005 to 2006.  Mr. David held the position of Vice President of Human Resources and Special Counsel from 1995 to 2005.  Mr. David held the position of Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1990 through 1994 and practiced corporate and business law for eight years prior to joining us.



James Hardinghas been our Chief Technology Officer since 2005 and Senior Vice President since 2001.  Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Harding was Chief Information Officer since 2001, with primary responsibility for worldwide information technology.



Stanley Komaroffhas been our Senior Advisor since 2003.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Komaroff was a partner for 35 years in the law firm of Proskauer Rose LLP, counsel to us.  He served as Chairman of that firm from 1991 to 1999.





Mark E. Mlotekhas been Executive Vice President of our Corporate Business Development Group since 2004 and was Senior Vice President of Corporate Business Development from 2000 to 2004.  Prior to that, Mr. Mlotek was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Mlotek was a partner in the law firm of Proskauer Rose LLP, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994.



Steven Paladinohas been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2000.  Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Paladino was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992.  From 1990 to 1992, Mr. Paladino served as Vice President and Treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as Corporate Controller.  Before joining us, Mr. Paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of BDO USA, LLP.  Mr. Paladino is a certified public accountant.



Michael Racioppihas been our Senior Vice President, Chief Merchandising Officer since 2008. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Racioppi was President of the Medical Division from 2000 to 2008 and Interim President from 1999 to 2000, and Corporate Vice President from 1994 to 2008.  Mr. Racioppi served as Senior Director, Corporate Merchandising from 1992 to 1994.  Before joining us in 1992, Mr. Racioppi was employed by Ketchum Distributors, Inc. as the Vice President of Purchasing and Marketing.



Lonnie Shoffhas been President of the Global Healthcare Specialties Group since September 2009.  Prior to joining us, Ms. Shoff was employed with Roche Diagnostics, where she held a series of positions of increasing responsibility in the United States and Switzerland over the past 20 years, most recently as Senior Vice President General Manager, Applied Science.



Michael Zackhas been President of our International Group since 2006.  Mr. Zack held the position of Senior Vice President of our International Group from 1989 to 2006.  Mr. Zack was employed by Polymer Technology (a subsidiary of Bausch & Lomb) as Vice President of International Operations from 1984 to 1989 and by Gruenenthal GmbH as Manager of International Subsidiaries from 1975 to 1984.







