ITEM 1.  Business



General



We
believe we are the largest distributor of healthcare products and services
primarily to office-based healthcare practitioners.  We serve more
than 600,000 customers worldwide, including dental practitioners and
laboratories, physician practices and animal health clinics, as well as
government and other institutions.  We believe that we have a strong
brand identity due to our more than 77 years of experience distributing
healthcare products.



We are
headquartered in Melville, New York, employ more than 12,500 people (of which
over 5,500 are based outside the United States) and have operations in the
United States, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, the Czech Republic,
France, Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland and the United
Kingdom.  We also have affiliates in Iceland, Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates.



We have
established strategically located distribution centers to enable us to better
serve our customers and increase our operating efficiency.  This
infrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive
prices, and a strong commitment to customer service, enables us to be a single
source of supply for our customers’ needs.  Our infrastructure also
allows us to provide convenient ordering and rapid, accurate and complete order
fulfillment.



We
conduct our business through two reportable segments: healthcare distribution
and technology.  These segments offer different products and services
to the same customer base.  The healthcare distribution reportable
segment aggregates our dental, medical (including animal health) and
international operating segments.  This segment consists of consumable
products, small equipment, laboratory products, large dental and medical
equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals,
vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products and
vitamins.



Industry



The
healthcare products distribution industry, as it relates to office-based
healthcare practitioners, is highly fragmented and diverse.  This
industry, which encompasses the dental, medical and animal health markets, was
estimated to produce revenues of approximately $27.5 billion in 2009 in the
combined North American and European markets.  The industry ranges
from sole practitioners working out of relatively small offices to group
practices or service organizations ranging in size from a few practitioners to a
large number of practitioners who have combined or otherwise associated their
practices.



Due in
part to the inability of office-based healthcare practitioners to store and
manage large quantities of supplies in their offices, the distribution of
healthcare supplies and small equipment to office-based healthcare practitioners
has been characterized by frequent, small quantity orders, and a need for rapid,
reliable and substantially complete order fulfillment.  The purchasing
decisions within an office-based healthcare practice are typically made by the
practitioner or an administrative assistant.  Supplies and small
equipment are generally purchased from more than one distributor, with one
generally serving as the primary supplier.



The
healthcare products distribution industry continues to experience growth due to
the aging population, increased healthcare awareness, the proliferation of
medical technology and testing, new pharmacology treatments and expanded
third-party insurance coverage, partially offset by the effects of reduced
insurance coverage due to unemployment.  In addition, the physician
market continues to benefit from the shift of procedures and diagnostic testing
from acute care settings to alternate-care sites, particularly physicians’
offices.





We
believe that consolidation within the industry will continue to result in a
number of distributors, particularly those with limited financial and marketing
resources, seeking to combine with larger companies that can provide growth
opportunities.  This consolidation also may continue to result in
distributors seeking to acquire companies that can enhance their current product
and service offerings or provide opportunities to serve a broader customer
base.



In recent
years, the healthcare industry has increasingly focused on cost
containment.  This trend has benefited distributors capable of
providing a broad array of products and services at low prices.  It
also has accelerated the growth of HMOs, group practices, other managed care
accounts and collective buying groups, which, in addition to their emphasis on
obtaining products at competitive prices, tend to favor distributors capable of
providing specialized management information support.  We believe that
the trend towards cost containment has the potential to favorably affect demand
for technology solutions, including software, which can enhance the efficiency
and facilitation of practice management.



Competition



The
distribution and manufacture of healthcare supplies and equipment is highly
competitive.  Many of the healthcare distribution products we sell are
available to our customers from a number of suppliers.  In addition,
our competitors could obtain exclusive rights from manufacturers to market
particular products.  Manufacturers also could seek to sell directly
to end-users, and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other
distributors.





We also
face significant competition internationally, where we compete on the basis of
price and customer service against several large competitors, including the GACD
Group, Pluradent AG & Co., Planmeca Oy, Omega Pharma NV, Billericay Dental
Supply Co. Ltd., National Veterinary Services and Alcyon SA, as well as a large
number of dental, medical and animal health product distributors and
manufacturers in Australia, Austria, Belgium, China, the Czech Republic, France,
Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New
Zealand, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.



Significant
price reductions by our competitors could result in a similar reduction in our
prices.  Any of these competitive pressures may materially adversely
affect our operating results.





Competitive
Strengths



We have
more than 77 years of experience in distributing products to healthcare
practitioners resulting in strong awareness of the “Henry Schein”
brand.  Our competitive strengths include:



Direct sales and marketing
      expertise.  Our sales and marketing efforts are designed
      to establish and solidify customer relationships through personal visits
      by field sales representatives, frequent direct marketing and telesales
      contact, emphasizing our broad product lines, including exclusive
      distribution agreements, competitive prices and ease of order
      placement.  The key elements of our direct sales and marketing
      efforts are:•Field sales
      consultants.  We have approximately 2,750 field sales
      consultants, including equipment sales specialists, covering major North
      American, European and other international markets.  These
      consultants complement our direct marketing and telesales efforts and
      enable us to better market, service and support the sale of more
      sophisticated products and
equipment.



•Direct
      marketing.  During 2009, we distributed approximately
      27.0 million pieces of direct marketing material, including catalogs,
      flyers, order stuffers and other promotional materials to existing and
      potential office-based healthcare
customers.



•Telesales.  We
      support our direct marketing effort with approximately 1,400 inbound and
      outbound telesales representatives, who facilitate order processing and
      generate new sales through direct and frequent contact with
      customers.





Broad product and service
      offerings at competitive prices.  We offer a broad range
      of products and services to our customers, at competitive prices, in the
      following categories:



•Consumable supplies and
      equipment.  We offer over 90,000 Stock Keeping Units, or
      SKUs, to our customers.  Of the SKUs offered, approximately
      49,000 are offered to our dental customers, approximately 39,000 to our
      medical customers and approximately 22,000 to our animal health
      customers.  We offer over 100,000 additional SKUs to our
      customers in the form of special order
items.



•Technology and other
      value-added products and services.  We sell practice
      management software systems to our dental, medical and animal health
      customers.  Our practice management software solutions provide
      practitioners with patient treatment history, billing, accounts receivable
      analyses and management, appointment calendars, electronic claims
      processing and word processing programs.  As of December 26,
      2009, we have an active user base of more than 65,000 practices, including
      Dentrix®, Easy Dental®, Oasis® and EXACT® for dental practices, MicroMD®
      for physician practices and AVImark® for animal health
      clinics.



•Repair
      services.  We have 192 equipment sales and service
      centers worldwide that provide a variety of repair, installation and
      technical services for our healthcare customers.  Our ProRepair
      technicians provide installation and repair services for dental
      handpieces; dental, medical and animal health small equipment; table top
      sterilizers; and large dental
equipment.



•Financial
      services.  We offer our customers solutions in operating
      their practices by providing access to a number of financial services and
      products (including non-recourse financing for equipment, technology and
      software products; non-recourse patient financing; collection services and
      credit card processing) at rates that we believe are generally lower than
      what they would be able to secure
independently.









Commitment to superior
      customer service.  We maintain a strong commitment to
      providing superior customer service.  We frequently monitor our
      customer service through customer surveys, focus groups and statistical
      reports.  Our customer service policy primarily focuses
      on:



•Exceptional order
      fulfillment.  Approximately 99% of items ordered in the
      United States and Canada are shipped without back ordering and are shipped
      on the same business day the order is
received.



•Streamlined ordering
      process.  Customers may place orders 24 hours a day,
      7 days a week by mail, fax, telephone, e-mail, Internet and by using
      our computerized order entry
systems.



Integrated management
      information systems.  Our information systems generally
      allow for centralized management of key functions, including accounts
      receivable, inventory, accounts payable, payroll, purchasing, sales and
      order fulfillment.  These systems allow us to manage our growth,
      deliver superior customer service, properly target customers, manage
      financial performance and monitor daily operational
      statistics.



Cost-effective
      purchasing.  We believe that cost-effective purchasing is
      a key element to maintaining and enhancing our position as a
      competitive-pricing provider of healthcare products.  We
      continuously evaluate our purchase requirements and suppliers’ offerings
      and prices in order to obtain products at the lowest possible
      cost.  In 2009, our top 10 healthcare distribution suppliers and
      our single largest supplier accounted for approximately 31% and 8%,
      respectively, of our aggregate
purchases.



Efficient
      distribution.  We distribute our products from our
      strategically located distribution centers.  We strive to
      maintain optimal inventory levels in order to satisfy customer demand for
      prompt delivery and complete order fulfillment.  These inventory
      levels are managed on a daily basis with the aid of our management
      information systems.  Once an order is entered, it is
      electronically transmitted to the distribution center nearest the
      customer’s location and a packing slip for the entire order is printed for
      order fulfillment.







Products



The
following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net sales by principal
categories of products offered through our healthcare distribution and
technology reportable segments:



      (1)2007
      (1)Healthcare
      DistributionDental:Consumable
      dental products, dental laboratory productsand
      small equipment (2)45.9%46.4%46.0%Large
      dental equipment (3)17.117.918.3Total
      dental63.064.364.3Medical:Medical
      products (4)23.422.927.0Animal
      health products (5)11.010.26.5Total
      medical34.433.133.5Total
      Healthcare Distribution97.497.497.8TechnologySoftware
      and related products andother
      value-added products (6)2.62.62.2Total100.0%100.0%100.0%



(1)Adjusted
      to reflect the effects of discontinued
  operations.



(2)Includes
      X-ray products, infection-control products, handpieces, preventatives,
      impression materials, composites, anesthetics, teeth, dental implants,
      gypsum, acrylics, articulators and
abrasives.



(3)Includes
      dental chairs, delivery units and lights, X-ray equipment, equipment
      repair and high-tech equipment.



(4)Includes
      branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products,
      diagnostic tests, infection-control products, X-ray products, equipment
      and vitamins.



(5)Includes
      branded and generic pharmaceuticals, surgical and consumable products and
      services and equipment.



(6)Includes
      software and related products and other value-added products, including
      financial products and continuing
education.









Business
Strategy



Our
objective is to continue to expand as a value-added distributor of healthcare
products and services to office-based healthcare practitioners.  To
accomplish this, we will apply our competitive strengths in executing the
following strategies:



•Increase penetration of our
      existing customer base.  We have over 600,000 customers
      worldwide and we intend to increase sales to our existing customer base
      and enhance our position as their primary
  supplier.



•Increase the number of
      customers we serve.  This strategy includes increasing
      the number and productivity of field sales consultants, as well as using
      our customer database to focus our marketing
  efforts.



•Leverage our value-added
      products and services.  We continue to increase
      cross-selling efforts for key product lines.  In the dental
      business, we have significant cross-selling opportunities between our
      dental practice management software users and our dental distribution
      customers.  In the medical business, we have opportunities to
      expand our vaccine, injectables and other pharmaceuticals sales to medical
      distribution customers, as well as cross-selling core products and
      practice management software with these key products.  In the
      animal health business, we have opportunities to cross-sell practice
      management software and other
products.



•Pursue strategic acquisitions
      and joint ventures.  Our acquisition strategy includes
      acquiring businesses complementary to ours that will provide, among other
      things, additional sales to be channeled through our existing distribution
      infrastructure, access to additional product lines and networks of field
      sales consultants and an opportunity to further expand into new geographic
      markets.



Markets
Served



Demographic
trends indicate that our markets are growing, as an aging U.S. population is
increasingly using healthcare services.  Between 2009 and 2019, the 45
and older population is expected to grow by approximately
16%.  Between 2009 and 2029, this age group is expected to grow by
approximately 30%.  This compares with expected total U.S. population
growth rates of approximately 10% between 2009 and 2019 and approximately 21%
between 2009 and 2029.



In the
dental industry, there is predicted to be a rise in oral healthcare expenditures
as the 45 and older segment of the population increases.  Cosmetic
dentistry is another growing aspect of dental practices as new technologies
allow dentists to offer cosmetic solutions that patients seek.  At the
same time, there is an increase in dental insurance
coverage.  Approximately 56% of the U.S. population now has some form
of dental coverage, up from 49% in 1996.



We
support our dental professionals through the many SKUs that we offer, as well as
through important value-added services, including practice management software,
electronic claims processing, financial services and continuing education, all
designed to help maximize a practitioner’s efficiency.



There
continues to be a migration of procedures from acute-care settings to
physicians’ offices, a trend that we believe provides additional opportunities
for us.  There also is the continuing use of vaccines, injectables and
other pharmaceuticals in alternate-care settings.  We believe we have
established a leading position as a vaccine supplier to the office-based
physician practitioner.



We
believe our international group is a leading European healthcare supplier
servicing office-based dental, medical and animal health
practices.  We are in the process of implementing SAP software across
continental Europe.  Additionally, we are expanding our dental
full-service model and our animal health presence in Europe, as well as our
medical offerings in countries where opportunities exist.  Through our
“Schein Direct” program, we also have the capability to provide door-to-door air
package delivery to practitioners in over 200 countries around the
world.



For
information on revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area, see Note 13 of
“Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which is incorporated herein by
reference.





Seasonality
and Other Factors Affecting Our Business and Quarterly Results



We
experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings.  As a result, we may
fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors,
which could cause our stock price to decline.



Our
business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations.  Net
sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth
quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza
vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based
healthcare practitioners and year-end promotions.  Net sales and
operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due
to increased sales in the prior two quarters.  While recent history
has resulted in flat to declining sales, we expect our historical seasonality of
sales to continue in the foreseeable future.  Quarterly results also
may be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including:



•costs
      of developing new applications and services;



•costs
      related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or
      businesses;



•timing
      and amount of sales and marketing expenditures;•timing
      of pricing changes offered by our vendors;•timing
      of the introduction of new products and services by our
      vendors;•changes
      in or availability of vendor contracts or rebate programs;•vendor
      rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals;•changes
      in the way vendors introduce or deliver products to
market;•exclusivity
      requirements with certain vendors may prohibit us from distributing
      competitive products manufactured by other vendors;•loss
      of sales representatives;



•general
      economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare industry
      and related industries;•timing
      of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related
      products and services;•our
      success in establishing or maintaining business
    relationships;•restructuring
      charges;



•changes
      in accounting principles;•unexpected
      difficulties in developing and manufacturing
  products;



•product
      demand and availability or recalls by
  manufacturers;



•exposure
      to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the
      products we sell results in injury;
and



•increases
      in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party
      shippers.



Any
change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or
quarterly operating results to fluctuate.  If our operating results do
not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline.





Governmental
Regulations



Certain
of our businesses involve the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical
devices, and in this regard we are subject to various local, state, federal and
foreign governmental laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of
pharmaceuticals and medical devices.  Among the federal laws
applicable to us are the Controlled Substances Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act, as amended, the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987, and
Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act.  We are also subject to
comparable foreign regulations.



The
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act generally regulates the introduction,
manufacture, advertising, labeling, packaging, storage, handling, reporting,
marketing and distribution of, and record keeping for, pharmaceuticals and
medical devices shipped in interstate commerce, and states may similarly
regulate such activities within the state.  Section 361 of the Public
Health Service Act (“Regulations to Control Communicable Diseases”) serves as
the legal basis for such regulation of human cells, tissues, and cellular and
tissue-based products.



The
Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987, which amended the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, establishes certain requirements applicable to the wholesale
distribution of prescription drugs, including the requirement that wholesale
drug distributors be licensed by each state in which they conduct business,
provide certain drug pedigree information on the distribution of prescription
drugs and act in accordance with federally established guidelines on storage,
handling and record maintenance.



Under the
Controlled Substances Act, as a distributor of controlled substances, we are
required to obtain a registration annually from the United States Drug
Enforcement Administration and are subject to other regulatory requirements
relating to the sale, marketing, handling and distribution of such drugs, in
accordance with specified rules and regulations.  We are subject to
inspection by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration.





Certain
of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign)
healthcare fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws, and regulations
with respect to their operations.  Such laws prohibit, among other
things, the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims
for reimbursement, and soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in
order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or
arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing, of items or
services that are paid for by government health care programs.  The
fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject to heightened enforcement
activity over the past few years, particularly through “relators,” who
file





complaints
in the name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states) under
federal and state False Claims Act statutes.  These laws and
regulations are subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation, and
can have a material adverse impact on us if a violation is
found.  Certain of our businesses also maintain contracts with the
governments and are subject to certain regulatory requirements relating to
government contractors.





The
United States Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, which went
into effect on September 27, 2007, requires the United States Food and Drug
Administration to establish standards and identify and validate effective
technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against
counterfeit drugs.  These standards include any track and trace or
authentication technologies, such as RFID and other technologies.  The
United States Food and Drug Administration is currently conducting pilot
programs and seeking feedback from medical device manufacturers and distributors
who are willing to comment prior to unique device identifier (UDI) rulemaking
expected mid-2010.



Certain
of our businesses involve access to personal health, medical, financial and
other information of individuals, and are accordingly subject to numerous
federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy
and security of such information, and require, among other things, the
implementation of various recordkeeping, operational, notice and other practices
intended to safeguard that information, limit its use to allowed purposes, and
notify individuals in the event of privacy breaches.



In
addition, United States and international import and export laws and regulations
require us to abide by certain standards relating to the importation and
exportation of products.  We also are subject to certain laws and
regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the
accuracy of our internal books and records.







While we
believe that we are substantially compliant with the foregoing laws and
regulations promulgated thereunder and possess all material permits and licenses
required for the conduct of our business, there can be no assurance that
regulations that impact our business or customers’ practices will not have a
material adverse impact on our business.  As a result of political,
economic and regulatory influences, the healthcare distribution industry in the
United States is under intense scrutiny and subject to fundamental
changes.  We cannot predict what reform proposals, if any, will be
adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on
us.



See “ITEM
1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of additional regulatory developments that
may affect our results of operations and financial condition.



Proprietary
Rights



We hold
trademarks relating to the “Henry Schein” name and logo, as well as certain
other trademarks.  Pursuant to agreements executed in connection with
our reorganization in 1994, both Henry Schein, Inc. and Schein Pharmaceutical,
Inc. (which was acquired by Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2000), a company
previously engaged in the manufacture and distribution of multi-source
pharmaceutical products, are entitled to use the “Schein” name in connection
with their respective businesses, but Schein Pharmaceutical, Inc. must always
use “Schein” in combination with the word “Pharmaceutical” and is not entitled
to use the name “Henry Schein” or to use “Schein” alone or with any other word
(other than “Pharmaceutical”).  We intend to protect our trademarks to
the fullest extent practicable.



Employees



As of
December 26, 2009, we employed more than 12,500 full-time employees, including
approximately 1,400 telesales representatives, 2,750 field sales consultants,
including equipment sales specialists, 2,250 warehouse employees, 500
computer programmers and technicians, 1,150 management employees and 4,800
office, clerical and administrative employees.  Approximately 279 or
2.2% of our employees were subject to collective bargaining
agreements.  We believe that our relations with our employees are
excellent.



Available
Information



We make
available free of charge through our Internet Web site,www.henryschein.com,
our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on Forms 3, 4 and
5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) and Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as
reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or
furnished to, the SEC.



The above
information is also available at the SEC’s Office of Investor Education and
Advocacy at United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street,
N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-0213 or obtainable by calling the SEC at (800)
732-0330.  In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet Web site atwww.sec.gov,
where the above information can be viewed.



Our
principal executive offices are located at 135 Duryea Road, Melville, New York
11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500.  Unless the context
specifically requires otherwise, the terms the “Company,” “Henry Schein,” “we,”
“us” and “our” mean Henry Schein, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its
consolidated subsidiaries.





Executive
Officers of the Registrant



The
following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive
officers:



NameAgePositionStanley
      M. Bergman60Chairman,
      Chief Executive Officer, DirectorGerald
      A. Benjamin57Executive
      Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, DirectorJames
      P. Breslawski56President,
      Chief Operating Officer, DirectorLeonard
      A. David61Senior
      Vice President, Chief Compliance OfficerJames
      Harding54Senior
      Vice President, Chief Technology OfficerStanley
      Komaroff74Senior
      AdvisorMark
      E. Mlotek54Executive
      Vice President, Corporate Business Development,
DirectorSteven
      Paladino52Executive
      Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, DirectorMichael
      Racioppi55Senior
      Vice President, Chief Merchandising OfficerLonnie
      Shoff51President,
      Global Healthcare Specialties GroupMichael
      Zack57President,
      International Group



Stanley M. Bergmanhas been
our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1989 and a director since
1982.  Mr. Bergman held the position of President from 1989 to
2005.  Mr. Bergman held the position of Executive Vice President from
1985 to 1989 and Vice President of Finance and Administration from 1980 to
1985.



Gerald A. Benjaminhas been
our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since 2000 and a
director since 1994.  Prior to holding his current position, Mr.
Benjamin was Senior Vice President of Administration and Customer Satisfaction
since 1993.  Mr. Benjamin was Vice President of Distribution
Operations from 1990 to 1992 and Director of Materials Management from 1988 to
1990.  Before joining us in 1988, Mr. Benjamin was employed for 13
years in various management positions at Estée Lauder, Inc., where his last
position was Director of Materials Planning and Control.



James P. Breslawskihas been
our President and Chief Operating Officer since 2005 and a director since
1992.  Mr. Breslawski held the position of Executive Vice President
and President of U.S. Dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for
the North American Dental Group.  Between 1980 and 1990, Mr.
Breslawski held various positions with us, including Chief Financial Officer,
Vice President of Finance and Administration and Controller.



Leonard A. Davidhas been our
Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer since 2006.  Mr.
David held the position of Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer from 2005
to 2006.  Mr. David held the position of Vice President of Human
Resources and Special Counsel from 1995 to 2005.  Mr. David held the
position of Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1990 through 1994
and practiced corporate and business law for eight years prior to joining
us.



James Hardinghas been our
Chief Technology Officer since 2005 and Senior Vice President since
2001.  Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Harding was Chief
Information Officer since 2001, with primary responsibility for worldwide
information technology.



Stanley Komaroffhas been our
Senior Advisor since 2003.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Komaroff was a
partner for 35 years in the law firm of Proskauer Rose LLP, counsel to
us.  He served as Chairman of that firm from 1991 to
1999.





Mark E. Mlotekhas been
Executive Vice President of our Corporate Business Development Group since 2004
and was Senior Vice President of Corporate Business Development from 2000 to
2004.  Prior to that, Mr. Mlotek was Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995.  Prior
to joining us, Mr. Mlotek was a partner in the law firm of Proskauer Rose LLP,
counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate
reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994.



Steven Paladinohas been our
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since
2000.  Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Paladino was Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a
director since 1992.  From 1990 to 1992, Mr. Paladino served as Vice
President and Treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as Corporate
Controller.  Before joining us, Mr. Paladino was employed in public
accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm
of BDO Seidman, LLP.  Mr. Paladino is a certified public
accountant.



Michael Racioppihas been our
Senior Vice President, Chief Merchandising Officer since 2008. Prior to holding
his current position, Mr. Racioppi was President of the Medical Division from
2000 to 2008 and Interim President from 1999 to 2000, and Corporate Vice
President from 1994 to 2008.  Mr. Racioppi served as Senior Director,
Corporate Merchandising from 1992 to 1994.  Before joining us in 1992,
Mr. Racioppi was employed by Ketchum Distributors, Inc. as the Vice President of
Purchasing and Marketing.



Lonnie Shoffhas been
President of the Henry Schein Global Healthcare Specialties Group since
September 2009.  Prior to joining us, Ms. Shoff was employed with
Roche Diagnostics, most recently as Senior Vice President General Manager,
Applied Science.



Michael Zackhas been
President of our International Group since 2006.  Mr. Zack held the
position of Senior Vice President of our International Group from 1989 to
2006.  Mr. Zack was employed by Polymer Technology (a subsidiary of
Bausch & Lomb) as Vice President of International Operations from 1984 to
1989 and by Gruenenthal GmbH as Manager of International Subsidiaries from 1975
to 1984.







