ITEM 1.  Business



General



We believe we are the world’s largest provider of health care products and services primarily to office-based dental, medical and animal health care practitioners.  We serve over 775,000 customers worldwide, including dental practitioners and laboratories, physician practices and animal health clinics, as well as government, institutional health care clinics and other alternate care clinics.  We believe that we have a strong brand identity due to our more than 80 years of experience distributing health care products.



We are headquartered in Melville, New York, employ more than 15,000 people (of which nearly 7,000 are based outside the United States) and have operations or affiliates in 25 countries, including the United States, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Mauritius, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey and the United Kingdom.



We offer a comprehensive selection of products and services and value-added solutions for operating efficient practices and delivering high quality care.  We operate through a centralized and automated distribution network with a selection of more than 96,000 branded products and Henry Schein private brand products in stock, as well as more than 110,000 additional products available as special order items.  We also offer our customers exclusive, innovative technology solutions, including practice management software and e-commerce solutions, as well as a broad range of financial services.



We have established approximately four million square feet of space in 67 strategically located distribution centers around the world to enable us to better serve our customers and increase our operating efficiency.  This infrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive prices, and a strong commitment to customer service, enables us to be a single source of supply for our customers’ needs.  Our infrastructure also allows us to provide convenient ordering and rapid, accurate and complete order fulfillment.



We conduct our business through two reportable segments: (i) health care distribution and (ii) technology and value-added services.  These segments offer different products and services to the same customer base.



The health care distribution reportable segment aggregates our global dental, medical and animal health operating segments.  This segment consists of consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products and vitamins.  Our global dental group serves office-based dental practitioners, schools and other institutions.  Our global medical group serves office-based medical practitioners, ambulatory surgery centers, other alternate-care settings and other institutions.  Our global animal health group serves animal health practices and clinics.



Our global technology and value-added services group provides software, technology and other value-added services to health care practitioners.  Our technology group offerings include practice management software systems for dental and medical practitioners and animal health clinics.  Our value-added practice solutions include financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, practice technology, network and hardware services, plus continuing education services for practitioners.



Industry



The health care products distribution industry, as it relates to office-based health care practitioners, is highly fragmented and diverse.  This industry, which encompasses the dental, medical and animal health markets, was estimated to produce revenues of approximately $30 billion in 2012 in the combined North American, European and Australian/New Zealand markets.  The industry ranges from sole practitioners working out of relatively small offices to group practices or service organizations ranging in size from a few practitioners to a large number of practitioners who have combined or otherwise associated their practices.





Due in part to the inability of office-based health care practitioners to store and manage large quantities of supplies in their offices, the distribution of health care supplies and small equipment to office-based health care practitioners has been characterized by frequent, small quantity orders, and a need for rapid, reliable and substantially complete order fulfillment.  The purchasing decisions within an office-based health care practice are typically made by the practitioner or an administrative assistant.  Supplies and small equipment are generally purchased from more than one distributor, with one generally serving as the primary supplier.



The health care products distribution industry continues to experience growth due to the aging population, increased health care awareness, the proliferation of medical technology and testing, new pharmacology treatments and expanded third-party insurance coverage, partially offset by the affects of increased unemployment on insurance coverage.  In addition, the physician market continues to benefit from the shift of procedures and diagnostic testing from acute care settings to alternate-care sites, particularly physicians’ offices.



We believe that consolidation within the industry will continue to result in a number of distributors, particularly those with limited financial and marketing resources, seeking to combine with larger companies that can provide growth opportunities.  This consolidation also may continue to result in distributors seeking to acquire companies that can enhance their current product and service offerings or provide opportunities to serve a broader customer base.



In recent years, the health care industry has increasingly focused on cost containment.  This trend has benefited distributors capable of providing a broad array of products and services at low prices.  It also has accelerated the growth of HMOs, group practices, other managed care accounts and collective buying groups, which, in addition to their emphasis on obtaining products at competitive prices, tend to favor distributors capable of providing specialized management information support.  We believe that the trend towards cost containment has the potential to favorably affect demand for technology solutions, including software, which can enhance the efficiency and facilitation of practice management.



Competition



The distribution and manufacture of health care supplies and equipment is highly competitive.  Many of the health care distribution products we sell are available to our customers from a number of suppliers.  In addition, our competitors could obtain exclusive rights from manufacturers to market particular products.  Manufacturers also could seek to sell directly to end-users, and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors.





We also face significant competition internationally, where we compete on the basis of price and customer service against several large competitors, including the GACD Group, Pluradent AG & Co., Planmeca Oy, Arseus NV, Billericay Dental Supply Co. Ltd., National Veterinary Services and Alcyon SA, as well as a large number of dental, medical and animal health product distributors and manufacturers in Australia, Austria, Belgium, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey and the United Kingdom.



Significant price reductions by our competitors could result in a similar reduction in our prices.  Any of these competitive pressures may materially adversely affect our operating results.





Competitive Strengths



We have more than 80 years of experience in distributing products to health care practitioners resulting in strong awareness of the “Henry Schein” brand.  Our competitive strengths include:



A focus on meeting our customers’ unique needs.  We are committed to providing customized solutions to our customers that are driven by our understanding of the market and reflect the technology-driven products and services best suited for their practice needs.



Direct sales and marketing expertise.  Our sales and marketing efforts are designed to establish and solidify customer relationships through personal visits by field sales representatives, frequent direct marketing and telesales contact, emphasizing our broad product lines, including exclusive distribution agreements, competitive prices and ease of order placement.  The key elements of our direct sales and marketing efforts are:•Field sales consultants.  We have approximately 3,300 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, covering major North American, European and other international markets.  These consultants complement our direct marketing and telesales efforts and enable us to better market, service and support the sale of more sophisticated products and equipment.



•Direct marketing.  During 2012, we distributed approximately 31.6 million pieces of direct marketing material, including catalogs, flyers, order stuffers and other promotional materials to existing and potential office-based health care customers.



•Telesales.  We support our direct marketing effort with approximately 1,650 inbound and outbound telesales representatives, who facilitate order processing and generate new sales through direct and frequent contact with customers.



•Electronic commerce solutions.We provide our customers and sales teams with innovative and competitive Internet, PC and mobile e-commerce solutions.



•Social media.  Our operating entities and employees engage our customers and supplier partners through various social media platforms.



Broad product and service offerings at competitive prices.  We offer a broad range of products and services to our customers, at competitive prices, in the following categories:



•Consumable supplies and equipment.  We offer over 96,000 Stock Keeping Units, or SKUs, to our customers.  Of the SKUs offered, approximately 51,000 are offered to our dental customers, approximately 39,000 to our medical customers and approximately 15,500 to our animal health customers.  We offer over 110,000 additional SKUs to our customers in the form of special order items.



•Technology and other value-added products and services.  We sell practice management software systems to our dental, medical and animal health customers.  Our practice management solutions provide practitioners with electronic medical records, patient treatment history, billing, accounts receivable analyses and management, appointment calendars, electronic claims processing and word processing programs.  As of December 29, 2012, we have an active user base of more than 75,000 practices, including Dentrix®, Easy Dental®, Oasis®, Evolution® and EXACT®, Power Practice Px, AxiUm, EndoVision, PerioVision, OMSVision and ViiveTMfor dental practices, MicroMD® for physician practices and Advantage+, AVImark®, DVM Manager®, Infinity, Sunpoint, Triple Crown® and Vetech Advantage for animal health practices.



•Repair services.  We have 187 equipment sales and service centers worldwide that provide a variety of repair, installation and technical services for our health care customers.  Our ProRepair technicians provide installation and repair services for: dental handpieces; dental, medical and animal health small equipment; table top sterilizers; and large dental equipment.



•Financial services.  We offer our customers solutions in operating their practices more efficiently by providing access to a number of financial services and products (including non-recourse financing for equipment, technology and software products; non-recourse patient financing; collection services and credit card processing) at rates that we believe are generally lower than what our customers would be able to secure independently. We also provide dental practice valuation and brokerage services.





Commitment to superior customer service.  We maintain a strong commitment to providing superior customer service.  We frequently monitor our customer service through customer surveys, focus groups and statistical reports.  Our customer service policy primarily focuses on:



•Exceptional order fulfillment.  We ship an average of approximately 120,000 cartons daily.  Approximately 99% of items ordered are shipped without back ordering and are shipped on the same business day the order is received.



•Streamlined ordering process.  Customers may place orders 24 hours a day, 7 days a week by mail, fax, telephone, e-mail, Internet and by using our computerized order entry systems.



Integrated management information systems.  Our information systems generally allow for centralized management of key functions, including accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable, payroll, purchasing, sales and order fulfillment.  These systems allow us to manage our growth, deliver superior customer service, properly target customers, manage financial performance and monitor daily operational statistics.



Cost-effective purchasing.  We believe that cost-effective purchasing is a key element to maintaining and enhancing our position as a competitive-pricing provider of health care products.  We continuously evaluate our purchase requirements and suppliers’ offerings and prices in order to obtain products at the lowest possible cost.  In 2012, our top 10 health care distribution suppliers and our single largest supplier accounted for approximately 37% and 7%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases.



Efficient distribution.  We distribute our products from our strategically located distribution centers.  We strive to maintain optimal inventory levels in order to satisfy customer demand for prompt delivery and complete order fulfillment.  These inventory levels are managed on a daily basis with the aid of our management information systems.  Once an order is entered, it is electronically transmitted to the distribution center nearest the customer’s location and a packing slip for the entire order is printed for order fulfillment.





Products



The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net sales by principal categories of products offered through our health care distribution and technology reportable segments.  Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation:



201220112010Health care distribution:Dental products (1)53.455.958.7Medical products (2)17.417.618.2Animal health products (3)26.023.620.4Total health care distribution96.897.197.3Technology:Software and related products andother value-added products (4)3.22.92.7Total100.0%100.0%100.0%(1)Includes infection-control products, handpieces, preventatives, impression materials, composites, anesthetics, teeth, dental implants,gypsum, acrylics, articulators, abrasives, dental chairs, delivery units and lights, X-ray supplies and equipment, equipmentrepair and high-tech equipment.(2)Includes branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products, X-ray products,equipment and vitamins.(3)Includes branded and generic pharmaceuticals, surgical and consumable products and services and equipment.(4)Includes software and related products and other value-added products, including financial products and other services, includinge-services and continuing education services for practitioners.



Business Strategy



Our objective is to continue to expand as a global value-added provider of health care products and services to office-based dental, medical and animal health care practitioners.  To accomplish this, we will apply our competitive strengths in executing the following strategies:



•Increase penetration of our existing customer base.  We have over 775,000 customers worldwide and we intend to increase sales to our existing customer base and enhance our position as their primary supplier.



•Increase the number of customers we serve.  This strategy includes increasing the number and productivity of field sales consultants, as well as using our customer database to focus our marketing efforts in all of our operating segments.  In the dental business, we provide products and services to traditional dental practices as well as new emerging segments, such as dental support organizations and community health centers.  Leveraging our unique assets and capabilities, we offer solutions to address these new markets.  In the medical business, we have expanded to serve customers located in settings outside of the traditional office, such as urgent care clinics, retail and occupational health settings.  As settings of health care shift, we remain committed to serving these practitioners and providing them with the products and services they need.



•Leverage our value-added products and services.  We continue to increase cross-selling efforts for key product lines utilizing a consultative selling process.  In the dental business, we have significant cross-selling opportunities between our dental practice management software users and our dental distribution customers.  In the medical business, we have opportunities to expand our vaccine, injectables and other pharmaceuticals sales to health care practitioners, as well as cross-selling core products and electronic health record and practice management software.  Our strategy extends to providing health systems, integrated delivery networks and other large group and multi-site health care organizations, that include physician clinics, these same value added products and services.  As physicians and health systems closely align, we have increased access to opportunities for cross-marketing and selling our product and service portfolios.  In the animal health business, we have opportunities to cross-sell practice management software and other products.



•Pursue strategic acquisitions and joint ventures.  Our acquisition strategy includes acquiring businesses and entering into joint ventures complementary to ours that will provide, among other things, additional sales to be channeled through our existing distribution infrastructure, access to additional product lines and field sales consultants and an opportunity to further expand into new geographic markets.



Markets Served



Demographic trends indicate that our markets are growing, as an aging U.S. population is increasingly using health care services.  Between 2012 and 2022, the 45 and older population is expected to grow by approximately 13%.  Between 2012 and 2032, this age group is expected to grow by approximately 26%.  This compares with expected total U.S. population growth rates of approximately 9% between 2012 and 2022 and approximately 18% between 2012 and 2032.



In the dental industry, there is predicted to be a rise in oral health care expenditures as the 45 and older segment of the population increases.  There is increasing demand for new technologies that allow dentists to increase productivity, and this is being driven in the U.S. by lower insurance reimbursement rates.  At the same time, there is an expected increase in dental insurance coverage.



We support our dental professionals through the many SKUs that we offer, as well as through important value-added services, including practice management software, electronic claims processing, financial services and continuing education, all designed to help maximize a practitioner’s efficiency.



There continues to be a migration of procedures from acute-care settings to physicians’ offices, a trend that we believe provides additional opportunities for us.  There also is the continuing use of vaccines, injectables and other pharmaceuticals in alternate-care settings.  We believe we have established a leading position as a vaccine supplier to the office-based physician practitioner.



The animal health market, impacted by growing companion pet ownership and care, as well increased focus on safety and efficiency in livestock production, continues to provide additional growth opportunities for us.  We support the animal health practitioners we serve through the distribution of biologicals, pharmaceuticals, supplies and equipment and by actively engaging in the development, sale and distribution of veterinary practice management software.



Additionally, we are expanding our dental full-service model, our animal health presence and our medical offerings in countries where opportunities exist.  Through our “Schein Direct” program, we also have the capability to provide door-to-door air package delivery to practitioners in over 190 countries around the world.



For information on revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area, see Note 15 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which is incorporated herein by reference.





Seasonality and Other Factors Affecting Our Business and Quarterly Results



We experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings.  As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline.



Our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations.  Net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners and year-end promotions.  Net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters.  We expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future.  Quarterly results also may be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including:



•timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures;



•timing of pricing changes offered by our vendors;



•timing of the introduction of new products and services by our vendors;



•timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services;



•changes in or availability of vendor contracts or rebate programs;



•vendor rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals;



•changes in the way vendors introduce or deliver products to market;



•costs of developing new applications and services;



•exclusivity requirements with certain vendors may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other vendors;



•loss of sales representatives;



•costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses;



•costs associated with our self-insured medical and dental insurance programs;



•general market and economic conditions, as well as those specific to the health care industry and related industries;



•our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships;



•unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products;



•product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers;



•exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury;



•increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers;



•restructuring costs; and



•changes in accounting principles.



Any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to fluctuate.  If our operating results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline.





Governmental Regulations



Operating, Security and Licensure Standards



Certain of our businesses involve the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and in this regard we are subject to various local, state, federal and foreign governmental laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices.  Among the federal laws applicable to us are the Controlled Substances Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended, and Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act.  We are also subject to comparable foreign regulations.



The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FDC Act”) generally regulates the introduction, manufacture, advertising, labeling, packaging, storage, handling, reporting, marketing and distribution of, and record keeping for, pharmaceuticals and medical devices shipped in interstate commerce, and states may similarly regulate such activities within the state.  Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act, which provides authority to prevent the spread of communicable diseases, serves as the legal basis for the United States Food and Drug Administration’s regulation of human cells, tissues, and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as HCT/P products.



The FDC Act also establishes certain requirements applicable to the wholesale distribution of prescription drugs, including the requirement that wholesale drug distributors be licensed by each state in which they conduct business, provide certain drug pedigree information on the distribution of prescription drugs and act in accordance with federally established guidelines on storage, handling and record maintenance.



Under the Controlled Substances Act, as a distributor of controlled substances, we are required to obtain and renew annually registrations from the United States Drug Enforcement Administration permitting us to handle controlled substances.  We are also subject to other statutory and regulatory requirements relating to the sale, marketing, handling and distribution of such drugs, in accordance with specified rules and regulations, and these requirements have been subject to heightened enforcement activity in recent times.  We are subject to inspection by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration.







Certain of our businesses are subject to various additional federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including with respect to the sale, transportation, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, and safe working conditions.  In recent years, some states have passed or proposed laws and regulations that are intended to protect the integrity of the medical supply channel.  For example, Florida and certain other states have implemented or are implementing drug pedigree requirements that require that prescription drugs be distributed with records or information documenting the prior distribution of the drug, from distributors and potentially back to the manufacturers.  California has enacted a law requiring the implementation of an electronic drug pedigree system that provides track and trace chain of custody technologies, such as radio frequency identification, or RFID, technologies.  The law will take effect on a staggered basis, commencing on January 1, 2015 for pharmaceutical manufacturers, and July 1, 2016 for pharmaceutical wholesalers and repackagers.  There have been increasing efforts by various levels of government to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system in order to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or misbranded pharmaceuticals into the distribution system.



At the federal level, the FDC Act requires certain wholesalers to provide a drug pedigree for each wholesale distribution of prescription drugs which includes an identifying statement that records the chain of ownership of a prescription drug.  Currently, the United States Food and Drug Administration, in the exercise of its enforcement discretion, requires these wholesalers to maintain drug pedigrees that include transaction dates, names and addresses regarding transactions going back to either the manufacturer or the last authorized distributor of record that handled the drugs.



The FDC Act also requires the United States Food and Drug Administration to establish standards and identify and validate effective technologies for the purpose of securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs.  These standards include any track and trace or authentication technologies, such as RFID and other technologies.  The United States Food and Drug Administration has continued to develop its policies in this area, such as issuing a Final Guidance in 2010 regarding standardized numerical identification for prescription drug packages, and issuing a proposed rule in July 2012 for a unique medical device identification system.



Certain of our businesses also maintain contracts with governmental agencies and are subject to certain regulatory requirements specific to government contractors.



Health Care Fraud



Certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations.  Some of these laws-referred to as “false claims laws”- prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs.  Other laws, referred to as “anti-kickback laws”, prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing, of items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs.



The fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity over the past few years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of  “relators,” who serve as whistleblowers by filing complaints in the name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claims laws.  Under the federal False Claims Act relators can be entitled to receive up to 30% of total recoveries.  Also, violations of the federal False Claims Act can result in treble damages, and each false claim submitted can be subject to a penalty of up to $11,000 per claim.  The Health Care Reform Law significantly strengthened the federal False Claims Act and the anti-kickback law provisions, which could lead to the possibility of increased whistleblower or relator suits, and among other things made clear that a federal anti-kickback law violation can be a basis for federal False Claims Act liability.



The government has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians and dentists on the other.  As a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance.  We are now engaged in discussions with the government that may lead to changes in certain of our marketing practices and, potentially, payments which we do not expect to be material.  In addition, under the reporting and disclosure obligations of the Physician Payment Sunshine Act provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, each enacted in March 2010, generally known as the “Health Care Reform Law” (discussed in more detail in Health Care Reform, below), by the second quarter of 2014, the general public and government officials will be provided with new access to detailed information with regard to payments or other transfers of value to certain practitioners





(including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals) by applicable drug and device manufacturers subject to such reporting and disclosure obligations, which is likely to include us.  This information may lead to greater scrutiny, which may result in modifications to established practices and additional costs.



We also are subject to certain laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity in recent years.



Failure to comply with fraud and abuse laws and regulations could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse impact on our business.  Also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses.  Even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs.  In addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial and regulatory authorities, increasing the risk of noncompliance.



While we believe that we are substantially compliant with fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response, could adversely affect our business.



Health Care Reform



The Health Care Reform Law also included other provisions to reduce fraud and abuse and Medicare expenditures and the cost of health care generally, to increase federal oversight of private health insurance plans and to increase access to health coverage, some of which impact and further regulate some of our businesses.  In particular, a Health Care Reform Law provision, generally referred to as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, imposed new reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain practitioners (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity.  Implementation had been delayed pending the issuance of applicable rules by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”).  On February 1, 2013, CMS released the final rule to implement the Physician Payment Sunshine Act.   The final rule provides that data collection activities begin on August 1, 2013, and first disclosure reports are due by March 31, 2014 for the period August 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013.  On or about June 1, 2014, CMS will publish information from these reports, including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital identities, in a national publicly available data bank.



The final rule implementing the Physician Payment Sunshine Act is complex, ambiguous, and broad in scope, and we are in the process of analyzing its application to our businesses.  For example, the final rule is unclear as to whether the Physician Payment Sunshine Act requires that wholesale drug and device distributors that take title to the products they distribute, such as we generally do, are to be treated as “applicable manufacturers” subject to full reporting requirements.  The CMS commentary on the final rule indicates that they are; however, this interpretation appears to be inconsistent with the language of the Physician Payment Sunshine Act itself.  In addition, because certain of our subsidiaries manufacture drugs and devices, we will in any event likely be required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals.  It is difficult to predict how the new requirements may impact existing relationships among manufacturers, distributors, physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals. The Physician Payment Sunshine Act preempts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries may be required to continue to report under certain of such state laws.  While we expect to have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to comply with the Physician Payment Sunshine Act requirements, our compliance with the new final rule is likely to pose additional costs on us.





On June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme Court overturned certain lower federal court decisions to uphold as constitutional a key provision in the Health Care Reform Law often referred to as the “individual mandate,” which requires individuals without health insurance to pay a penalty.  However, the decision also invalidated a provision in the Health Care Reform Law requiring states to expand their Medicaid programs or risk the complete loss of all federal Medicaid funding. The Court held that the federal government may offer states the option of accepting the expansion requirement, but that it may not take away pre-existing Medicaid funds in order to coerce states into complying with the expansion. A number of states have indicated a reluctance to accept the Medicaid expansion, so the full extent of increased health care coverage under the Health Care Reform Law is uncertain.



Regulated Software; Electronic Health Records



The United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of computer software intended for use in health care settings, and has been developing policies on regulating clinical decision support tools as medical devices.  Certain of our businesses involve the development and sale of software and related products to support physician and dental practice management, and it is possible that the FDA could determine that one or more of our products is a medical device, which could subject us or one or more of our businesses to substantial additional requirements with respect to these products.



Certain of our businesses involve access to personal health, medical, financial and other information of individuals, and are accordingly directly or indirectly subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of such information, and require, among other things, the implementation of various recordkeeping, operational, notice and other practices intended to safeguard that information, limit its use to allowed purposes, and notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches.  Failure to comply with these laws can result in substantial penalties and other liabilities. As a result of the federal Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH Act”), which was passed in 2009, some of our businesses that were previously only indirectly subject to federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) privacy and security rules became directly subject to such rules because such businesses serve as “business associates” of HIPAA covered entities, such as health care providers. On January 17, 2013 the Office for Civil Rights of the Department of Health and Human Services released a final rule implementing the HITECH Act and making certain other changes to HIPAA privacy and security requirements.  Compliance with the rule is required by September 23, 2013, and will increase the requirements applicable to some of our businesses.



In addition, federal initiatives, including in particular the HITECH Act, are providing a program of incentive payments available to certain health care providers involving the adoption and use of certain electronic health care records systems and processes.  The HITECH initiative includes providing, among others, physicians and dentists, with financial incentives, if they meaningfully use certified electronic health record technology (“EHR”).  Also, eligible providers that fail to adopt certified EHR systems may be subject to Medicare reimbursement reductions beginning in 2015.  Qualification for the incentive payments requires the use of EHRs that are certified as having certain capabilities for meaningful use pursuant to standards adopted by the Department of Health and Human Services.  Initial (“stage one”) standards addressed criteria for periods beginning in 2011.  CMS has also issued a final rule with “stage two” criteria for periods beginning in 2014, which are more demanding, and new, incrementally more rigorous criteria are expected to be issued for stage “three” compliance, however, final standards have not yet been issued and so these criteria are not yet  certain.  Certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of certified EHR systems and other products linked to incentive programs, and so must maintain compliance with these evolving governmental criteria.



Also, HIPAA requires certain health care providers, such as physicians, to use certain transaction and code set rules for specified electronic transactions, such as transactions involving claims submissions.  Commencing July 1, 2012, CMS required that, electronic claim submissions and related electronic transactions be conducted under a new HIPAA transaction standard, called Version 5010.  CMS has required this upgrade in connection with another new requirement applicable to the industry, the implementation of new diagnostic code sets to be used in claims submission.  The new diagnostic code sets are called the ICD-10-CM. They were originally to be implemented on October 1, 2013, but CMS recently issued a final rule that extended the implementation date until October 1, 2014.  Certain of our businesses provide electronic practice management products that must meet those requirements, and while we believe we are prepared to timely adopt the new standards, it is possible that the transition to these new standards, particularly the transition to ICD-10-CM, may result in a degree of disruption and confusion, thus potentially increasing the costs associated with supporting this product.





International TransactionsIn addition, United States and international import and export laws and regulations require us to abide by certain standards relating to the importation and exportation of products.  We also are subject to certain laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, as well as other types of requirements similar to those imposed in the United States.While we believe that we are substantially compliant with the foregoing laws and regulations promulgated thereunder and possess all material permits and licenses required for the conduct of our business, there can be no assurance that regulations that impact our business or customers’ practices will not have a material adverse impact on our business.  As a result of political, economic and regulatory influences, the health care distribution industry in the United States is under intense scrutiny and subject to fundamental changes.  We cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us.See “ITEM 1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of additional burdens, risks and regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition.

Proprietary Rights



We hold trademarks relating to the “Henry Schein” name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks.  Pursuant to agreements executed in connection with our reorganization in 1994, both Henry Schein, Inc. and Schein Pharmaceutical, Inc. (which was acquired by Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2000), a company previously engaged in the manufacture and distribution of multi-source pharmaceutical products, are entitled to use the “Schein” name in connection with their respective businesses, but Schein Pharmaceutical, Inc. must always use “Schein” in combination with the word “Pharmaceutical” and is not entitled to use the name “Henry Schein” or to use “Schein” alone or with any other word (other than “Pharmaceutical”).  We intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable.



Employees



As of December 29, 2012, we employed more than 15,000 full-time employees, including approximately 1,650 telesales representatives, 3,300 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 2,925 warehouse employees, 725 computer programmers and technicians, 1,475 management employees and 5,550 office, clerical and administrative employees.  Over 315 or 2.1% of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements.  We believe that our relations with our employees are excellent.



Available Information



We make available free of charge through our Internet Web site,www.henryschein.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on Forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) and Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC.



The above information is also available at the SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy at United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-0213 or obtainable by calling the SEC at (800) 732-0330.  In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet Web site atwww.sec.gov, where the above information can be viewed.



Our principal executive offices are located at 135 Duryea Road, Melville, New York 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500.  Unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the “Company,” “Henry Schein,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Henry Schein, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.





Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers:



NameAgePositionStanley M. Bergman63Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, DirectorGerald A. Benjamin60Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, DirectorJames P. Breslawski59President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Henry ScheinGlobal Dental, DirectorLeonard A. David64Senior Vice President, Chief Compliance OfficerJames Harding57Senior Vice President, Chief Technology OfficerStanley Komaroff77Senior AdvisorMark E. Mlotek57Executive Vice President, Chief Strategic Officer, DirectorSteven Paladino55Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, DirectorMichael Racioppi58Senior Vice President, Chief Merchandising OfficerLonnie Shoff54President and Chief Executive Officer, Global Animal Health andStrategic PartnershipsMichael Zack60President, International Group



Stanley M. Bergmanhas been our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1989 and a director since 1982.  Mr. Bergman held the position of President from 1989 to 2005.  Mr. Bergman held the position of Executive Vice President from 1985 to 1989 and Vice President of Finance and Administration from 1980 to 1985.



Gerald A. Benjaminhas been our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since 2000 and a director since 1994.  Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Benjamin was Senior Vice President of Administration and Customer Satisfaction since 1993.  Mr. Benjamin was Vice President of Distribution Operations from 1990 to 1992 and Director of Materials Management from 1988 to 1990.  Before joining us in 1988, Mr. Benjamin was employed for 13 years in various management positions at Estée Lauder, Inc., where his last position was Director of Materials Planning and Control.



James P. Breslawskihas been our President and Chief Operating Officer since 2005 and a director since 1992.  Mr. Breslawski is also the Chief Executive Officer of our Henry Schein Global Dental Group.  Mr. Breslawski held the position of Executive Vice President and President of U.S. Dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the North American Dental Group.  Between 1980 and 1990, Mr. Breslawski held various positions with us, including Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance and Administration and Controller.



Leonard A. Davidhas been our Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer since 2006.  Mr. David held the position of Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer from 2005 to 2006.  Mr. David held the position of Vice President of Human Resources and Special Counsel from 1995 to 2005.  Mr. David held the position of Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1990 through 1994 and practiced corporate and business law for eight years prior to joining us.



James Hardinghas been our Chief Technology Officer since 2005 and Senior Vice President since 2001.  Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Harding was Chief Information Officer since 2001, with primary responsibility for worldwide information technology.



Stanley Komaroffhas been our Senior Advisor since 2003.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Komaroff was a partner for 35 years in the law firm of Proskauer Rose LLP, counsel to us.  He served as Chairman of that firm from 1991 to 1999.





Mark E. Mlotekhas been Executive Vice President and Chief Strategic Officer since 2004.  Mr. Mlotek was Senior Vice President of Corporate Business Development from 2000 to 2004.  Prior to that, Mr. Mlotek was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Mlotek was a partner in the law firm of Proskauer Rose LLP, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994.



Steven Paladinohas been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2000.  Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Paladino was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992.  From 1990 to 1992, Mr. Paladino served as Vice President and Treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as Corporate Controller.  Before joining us, Mr. Paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of BDO USA, LLP.  Mr. Paladino is a certified public accountant.



Michael Racioppihas been our Senior Vice President, Chief Merchandising Officer since 2008. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Racioppi was President of the Medical Division from 2000 to 2008 and Interim President from 1999 to 2000, and Corporate Vice President from 1994 to 2008.  Mr. Racioppi served as Senior Director, Corporate Merchandising from 1992 to 1994.  Before joining us in 1992, Mr. Racioppi was employed by Ketchum Distributors, Inc. as the Vice President of Purchasing and Marketing.



Lonnie Shoffhas been President and Chief Executive Officer of the Global Animal Health and Strategic Partnerships Group since 2009.  Prior to joining us, Ms. Shoff was employed with Roche Diagnostics, where she held a series of positions of increasing responsibility in the United States and Switzerland over the past 20 years, most recently as Senior Vice President General Manager, Applied Science.



Michael Zackhas been President of our International Group since 2006.  Mr. Zack held the position of Senior Vice President of our International Group from 1989 to 2006.  Mr. Zack was employed by Polymer Technology (a subsidiary of Bausch & Lomb) as Vice President of International Operations from 1984 to 1989 and by Gruenenthal GmbH as Manager of International Subsidiaries from 1975 to 1984.





