ITEM  1.    BUSINESS

INTRODUCTION



Overview

UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company dedicated to helping people live healthier lives and helping to make the health system work better for everyone. The terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “its,” “UnitedHealth Group,” or the “Company” used in this report refer to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and its subsidiaries.

Through our diversified family of businesses, we leverage core competencies in advanced, enabling technology; health care data, information and intelligence; and clinical care management and coordination to help meet the demands of the health system. These core competencies are deployed within our two distinct, but strategically aligned, business platforms: health benefits operating under UnitedHealthcare and health services operating under Optum.

UnitedHealthcare provides health care benefits to an array of customers and markets. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual serves employers ranging from sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers, public sector employers and other individuals. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement delivers health and well-being benefits for Medicare beneficiaries and retirees. UnitedHealthcare Community & State manages health care benefit programs on behalf of state Medicaid and community programs and their participants. UnitedHealthcare Global includes UnitedHealthcare Brazil, a health care company providing health and dental benefits and hospital and clinical services to employer groups and individuals in Brazil, and other diversified global health businesses.

Optum is a health services business serving the broad health care marketplace, including payers, care providers, employers, governments, life sciences companies and consumers, through its OptumHealth, OptumInsight and OptumRx businesses. These businesses have dedicated units that help improve overall health system performance through optimizing care quality, reducing costs and improving consumer experience and care provider performance leveraging distinctive capabilities in data and analytics, pharmacy care services, population health, health care delivery and health care operations.

Through UnitedHealthcare and Optum, in 2016, we processed more than one half trillion dollars in gross billed charges and we managed more than $200 billion in aggregate health care spending on behalf of the customers and consumers we serve. Our revenues are derived from premiums on risk-based products; fees from management, administrative, technology and consulting services; sales of a wide variety of products and services related to the broad health and well-being industry; and investment and other income. Our two business platforms have four reportable segments:

•UnitedHealthcare, which includes UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement, UnitedHealthcare Community & State and UnitedHealthcare Global;

•OptumHealth;

•OptumInsight; and

•OptumRx.

For our financial results and the presentation of certain other financial information by segment, including revenues and long-lived fixed assets by geographic source, seeNote 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements.”

UnitedHealthcare

Through its health benefits offerings, UnitedHealthcare is enabling better health, helping to control rising health care costs and creating a better health care experience for its customers. UnitedHealthcare’s market position is built on:

•strong local market relationships;

•the breadth of product offerings, which are responsive to many distinct market segments in health care;

•service and advanced technology;

•competitive medical and operating cost positions;

•effective clinical engagement;

•extensive expertise in distinct market segments; and

•innovation for customers and consumers.









UnitedHealthcare utilizes Optum’s capabilities to help coordinate patient care, improve affordability of medical care, analyze cost trends, manage pharmacy benefits, work with care providers more effectively and create a simpler consumer experience.

In the United States, UnitedHealthcare arranges for discounted access to care through networks that include 1 million physicians and other health care professionals and approximately 6,000 hospitals and other facilities.

UnitedHealthcare is subject to extensive government regulation. See further discussion of our regulatory environment below under“Government Regulation”and inPart II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers an array of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services nationwide for large national employers, public sector employers, mid-sized employers, small businesses, and individuals. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual provides access to medical services for over 30 million people on behalf of our customers and alliance partners. This includes more than 200,000 employer customers across all 50 states. Products are offered through affiliates that are licensed as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations (HMOs), or third-party administrators (TPAs). Large employer groups typically use self-funded arrangements where UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual earns a service fee. Smaller employer groups and individuals are more likely to purchase risk-based products because they are less willing or unable to bear a greater potential liability for health care expenditures.

Through its risk-based product offerings, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual assumes the risk of both medical and administrative costs for its customers in return for a monthly premium, which is typically a fixed rate per individual served for a one-year period. When providing administrative and other management services to customers that elect to self-fund the health care costs of their employees and employees’ dependents, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual receives a fixed monthly service fee per individual served. These customers retain the risk of financing medical benefits for their employees and employees’ dependents, while UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual provides services such as coordination and facilitation of medical and related services to customers, consumers and health care professionals, administration of transaction processing and access to a contracted network of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals, including dental and vision.

The consolidated purchasing capacity represented by the individuals served by UnitedHealth Group makes it possible for UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual to contract for cost-effective access to a large number of conveniently located care professionals and facilities. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual has relationships with network care providers that integrate data and analytics, implement value-based payments and care management programs, and enable us to jointly better manage health care across populations.

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual typically distributes its products through consultants or direct sales in the larger employer and public sector segments. In the smaller group segment of the commercial marketplace, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s distribution system consists primarily of direct sales and sales through collaboration with brokers and agents. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual also distributes products through wholesale agents or agencies that contract with health insurance carriers to distribute individual or group benefits and provide other related services to their customers.

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual also distributes its products through professional employer organizations, associations and, increasingly, through both multi-carrier and its own proprietary private exchange marketplaces. Direct-to-consumer sales are supported by participation in multi-carrier health insurance marketplaces for individuals and small groups through exchanges. In 2017, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual will participate in individual public exchanges in three states, a reduction from 34 states in 2016.

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s diverse product portfolio offers a continuum of benefit designs, price points and approaches to consumer engagement, which provides the flexibility to meet the coverage needs of employers of all sizes. The market for health benefit products is shifting, with benefit and network offerings shaped, at least in part, by the requirements and effects of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) and related federal and state regulations, increased employer focus on quality and employee engagement and the urgent need to align the system around value. Cost pressures are stimulating demand for improved health care affordability and more coordinated care. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual is responding to this demand with medical network and contracting constructs (such as performance incentives and benefit designs that direct more patients to higher-performing care providers), alternative access to affordable and convenient care (such as through telehealth appointments with registered nurses and physicians) and a consumer-responsive service called Advocate4Me.









UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers affordable products and actionable information to enable better health outcomes and to help employers attract and retain talent. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s major product families include:

Traditional Products.Traditional products include a full range of medical benefits and network options from managed plans, such as Choice and Options PPO, to more traditional indemnity products. The plans offer a full spectrum of covered services, including preventive care, direct access to specialists and catastrophic protection.

Consumer Engagement Products.Consumer engagement products couple plan design with financial accounts to increase individuals’ responsibility for their health and well-being. This suite of products includes high-deductible consumer-driven benefit plans, which include health reimbursement accounts (HRAs), health savings accounts (HSAs) and consumer engagement services such as personalized behavioral incentive programs and consumer education. During 2016, more than 40,000 employer-sponsored benefit plans, including nearly 400 employers in the large group self-funded market, purchased HRA or HSA products from us.

Clinical and Pharmacy Products.UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers a comprehensive suite of clinical and pharmacy care services products, which complement its service offerings by improving quality of care, engaging members and providing cost-saving options. All UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual members are provided access to clinical products that help them make better health care decisions and better use of their medical benefits, which contribute to improved health and lowered medical expenses.

Each medical plan has a core set of clinical programs embedded in the offering, with additional services available depending on offering type (risk-based or self-funded), line of business (e.g., small business, key accounts, public sector, national accounts or individuals) and clinical need. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s clinical programs include:

•wellness programs;

•decision support;

•utilization management;

•case and disease management;

•complex condition management;

•on-site programs, including biometrics and flu shots;

•incentives to reinforce positive behavior change;

•mental health/substance use disorder management; and

•employee assistance programs.

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s comprehensive and integrated pharmaceutical care services promote lower costs by using formulary programs to produce better unit costs, encouraging consumers to use drugs that offer improved value and outcomes, helping consumers take actions to improve their health and supporting the appropriate use of drugs based on clinical evidence through physician and consumer education programs.

Specialty Offerings. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual also delivers dental, vision, life, critical illness and disability product offerings through an integrated approach, including a network of more than 20,000 vision offices and more than 80,000 dental offices, in private and retail settings.

UnitedHealthcare Military & Veterans.UnitedHealthcare Military & Veterans is the provider of health care services for nearly 3 million active duty and retired military service members and their families in 21 states under the Department of Defense’s (DoD) TRICARE Managed Care Support contract. The contract that began on April 1, 2013 is scheduled to conclude in 2017 and has not been renewed.

UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement

UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health and well-being services to individuals age 50 and older, addressing their unique needs for preventive and acute health care services, as well as services dealing with chronic disease and other specialized issues common among older individuals. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement is fully dedicated to serving this growing senior market segment, providing products and services in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and most U.S. territories. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement has distinct pricing, underwriting, clinical program management and marketing capabilities dedicated to health products and services in this market.









UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement offers a selection of products that allow people to obtain the health coverage and services they need as their circumstances change. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement is positioned to serve seniors who find that affordable, network-based care provided through Medicare Advantage plans meets their unique health care needs. For those who prefer traditional fee-for-service Medicare, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement offers both Medicare Supplement and Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit (Medicare Part D) prescription drug programs that supplement their government-sponsored Medicare by providing additional benefits and coverage options. Beneficiaries with special needs are served through UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement Dual, Chronic and Institutional Special Needs Plans (SNPs) in many markets. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement services include care management and clinical management programs, a nurse health line service, 24-hour access to health care information, access to discounted health services from a network of care providers and administrative services.

UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement has extensive distribution capabilities and experience, including direct marketing to consumers on behalf of its key clients: AARP, the nation’s largest membership organization dedicated to the needs of people age 50 and over, and state and U.S. government agencies. Products are also offered through employer groups and agent channels.

UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement’s major product categories include:

Medicare Advantage.UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health care coverage for seniors and other eligible Medicare beneficiaries primarily through the Medicare Advantage program administered by CMS, including Medicare Advantage HMO plans, preferred provider organization (PPO) plans, Point-of-Service plans, Private-Fee-for-Service plans and SNPs. Under the Medicare Advantage program, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health insurance coverage in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from CMS plus, in some cases, monthly consumer premiums. Premium amounts received from CMS vary based on the geographic areas in which members reside; demographic factors such as age, gender and institutionalized status; and the health status of the individual. Medicare Advantage plans are designed to compete at the local level, taking into account member and care provider preferences, competitor offerings,  our quality and cost initiatives, our historical financial results and the long-term payment rate outlook for each geographic area. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement served3.6 millionpeople through its Medicare Advantage products as of December 31, 2016.

Built on more than 20 years of experience, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement’s senior-focused care management model operates at a medical cost level below that of traditional Medicare, while helping seniors live healthier lives. Through UnitedHealth Group’s HouseCalls program, nurse practitioners performed more than 1 million in-home preventative care visits in 2016 to address unmet care opportunities and close gaps in care. For high-risk patients in certain care settings and programs, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement uses proprietary, automated medical record software that enables clinical care teams to capture and track patient data and clinical encounters, creating a comprehensive set of care information that bridges across home, hospital and nursing home care settings. Proprietary predictive modeling tools help identify members at high risk and allow care managers to reach out to those members and create individualized care plans that help them obtain the right care, in the right place, at the right time.

Medicare Part D.UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides Medicare Part D benefits to beneficiaries throughout the United States and its territories through its Medicare Advantage and stand-alone Medicare Part D plans. The stand-alone Medicare Part D plans address a large spectrum of beneficiaries’ needs and preferences for their prescription drug coverage, including low cost prescription options. Each of the plans includes the majority of the drugs covered by Medicare and provides varying levels of coverage to meet the diverse needs of Medicare beneficiaries. As of December 31, 2016, UnitedHealthcare enrolled 8.6 million people in the Medicare Part D programs, including 4.9 million individuals in the stand-alone Medicare Part D plans with the remainder in Medicare Advantage plans incorporating Medicare Part D coverage.

Medicare Supplement.UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement is currently serving 4.7 million seniors nationwide through various Medicare Supplement products in association with AARP. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement offers a full range of supplemental products at diverse price points. These products cover the various levels of coinsurance and deductible gaps that seniors are exposed to in the traditional Medicare program.

Premium revenues from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) represented25%of UnitedHealth Group’s total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016, most of which were generated by UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement.

UnitedHealthcare Community & State

UnitedHealthcare Community & State is dedicated to serving state programs that care for the economically disadvantaged, the medically underserved and those without the benefit of employer-funded health care coverage, in exchange for a monthly premium per member from the state program. In some cases, these premiums are subject to experience or risk adjustments. UnitedHealthcare Community & State’s primary customers oversee Medicaid plans, Children’s Health Insurance Programs (CHIP), SNPs, integrated Medicare-Medicaid plans (MMP) and other federal, state and community health care programs. As of









December 31, 2016, UnitedHealthcare Community & State participated in programs in 24 states and the District of Columbia, and served5.9 millionbeneficiaries. The Affordable Care Act provided for optional Medicaid expansion effective January 1, 2014. As of December 31, 2016, UnitedHealthcare Community & State served more than 1 million people through Medicaid expansion programs in 15 states.

States using managed care services for Medicaid beneficiaries select health plans by using a formal bid process or by awarding individual contracts. A number of factors are considered by UnitedHealthcare Community & State when choosing programs for participation, including the state’s commitment and consistency of support for its Medicaid managed care program in terms of service, innovation and funding; the eligible population base, both immediate and long term; and the structure of the projected program. UnitedHealthcare Community & State works with its state customers to advocate for actuarially sound rates that are commensurate with medical cost trends.

The primary categories of eligibility for the programs served by UnitedHealthcare Community & State and its participation are:

•Temporary Assistance to Needy Families, primarily women and children - 22 markets;

•CHIP - 21 markets;

•Aged, Blind and Disabled - 20 markets;

•SNP  - 15 markets;

•Medicaid Expansion - 15 markets;

•Long-Term Services and Supports - 12 markets;

•childless adult programs for the uninsured - 2 markets;

•other programs (e.g., developmentally disabled, rehabilitative services) - 5 markets; and

•MMP - 2 markets.

These health plans and care programs offered are designed to address the complex needs of the populations they serve, including the chronically ill, those with disabilities and people with a higher risk of medical, behavioral and social conditions. UnitedHealthcare Community & State administers benefits for the unique needs of children, pregnant women, adults, seniors and those who are institutionalized or are nursing home eligible. These individuals often live in areas that are medically underserved and are less likely to have a consistent relationship with the medical community or a care provider. These individuals also tend to face significant social and economic challenges.

UnitedHealthcare Community & State leverages the national capabilities of UnitedHealth Group locally, supporting effective care management, strong regulatory partnerships, greater administrative efficiency, improved clinical outcomes and the ability to adapt to a changing national and local market environment. UnitedHealthcare Community & State coordinates resources among family, physicians, other health care providers, and government and community-based agencies and organizations to facilitate continuous and effective care.

Approximately 75% of the people in state Medicaid programs are served by managed care, but this population represents only 40% of total Medicaid spending. UnitedHealthcare Community & State’s business development opportunities include entering fee-for-service markets converting to managed care, which represents a population of nearly 8 million people; and growing in existing managed care markets, including state-carve-ins of populations with more complex needs requiring more sophisticated models of care. This expansion includes integrated management of physical, behavioral, long-term care services and supports and social services by applying strong data analytics and community-based collaboration.

UnitedHealthcare Community & State continues to evolve its clinical model to enhance quality and the clinical experience for the people it serves. The model allows UnitedHealthcare Community & State to quickly identify the people who could benefit most from more highly coordinated care; typically, the 5% of members who are most at risk and drive over 50% of states’ medical costs.

UnitedHealthcare Global

UnitedHealthcare Global participates in international markets through national “in country” and cross-border strategic approaches. UnitedHealthcare Global’s cross-border health care business provides comprehensive health benefits, care management and care delivery for multinational employers, governments and individuals around the world. UnitedHealthcare Global’s goal is to create health care business solutions that are based on local expertise, infrastructure, culture and needs. As of December 31, 2016, UnitedHealthcare Global provided medical benefits to4.2 millionpeople, principally in Brazil, but also residing in more than 125 other countries.

UnitedHealthcare Brazil.UnitedHealthcare Brazil provides medical and dental benefits to nearly 6 million people. UnitedHealthcare Brazil owns and operates more than 40 acute hospitals and more than 50 specialty, primary care and









emergency services clinics across Brazil, principally for the benefit of its members. UnitedHealthcare Brazil’s patients are also treated in its contracted provider network of nearly 22,000 physicians and other health care professionals, approximately 1,900 hospitals and nearly 7,000 laboratories and diagnostic imaging centers. UnitedHealthcare Brazil offers a diversified product portfolio with a wide range of product offerings, benefit designs, price points and value, including indemnity products. UnitedHealthcare Brazil’s products include various administrative services such as network access and administration, care management and personal health services and claims processing.

Other Global Offerings.UnitedHealthcare Global includes other diversified global health services with a variety of offerings for international customers, including:

•network access and care coordination in the United States and overseas;

•TPA products and services for health plans and TPAs;

•brokerage services;

•practice management services for care providers;

•government and corporate consulting services for improving quality and efficiency; and

•global expatriate insurance solutions.

Optum

Optum is a health services business serving the broad health care marketplace, including:

•Those who need care: the consumers who need the right support, information, resources and products to achieve their health goals.

•Those who provide care: pharmacies, hospitals, physicians, practices and other health care facilities seeking to modernize the health system and support the best possible patient care and experiences.

•Those who pay for care: employers, health plans, and state, federal and municipal agencies devoted to ensuring the populations they sponsor receive high-quality care, administered and delivered efficiently and effectively.

•Those who innovate for care: global life sciences organizations dedicated to developing more effective approaches to care, enabling technologies and medicines that improve care delivery and health outcomes.

Optum operates three reportable segments leveraging distinctive capabilities in data and analytics, pharmacy care services, population health, health care delivery and health care operations:

•OptumHealth focuses on care delivery, care management, wellness and consumer engagement, and health financial services;

•OptumInsight specializes in data and analytics and other health care information technology services, and delivers operational services and support; and

•OptumRx provides pharmacy care services.

OptumHealth

OptumHealth is a diversified health and wellness business serving the physical, emotional and health-related financial needs of 83 million unique individuals. OptumHealth enables population health management through programs offered by employers, payers, government entities and directly with the care delivery system. OptumHealth products and services deliver value by improving quality and patient satisfaction while lowering cost. OptumHealth builds high-performing networks and centers of excellence across the care continuum, by working directly with physicians to advance population health management and by coordinating care for the most medically complex patients.

OptumHealth offers its products on a risk basis, where it assumes responsibility for health care costs in exchange for a monthly premium per individual served, on an administrative fee basis, under which it manages or administers delivery of the products or services in exchange for a fixed monthly fee per individual served, or on a fee-for-service basis, where it delivers medical services to patients in exchange for a contracted fee. For its financial services offerings, OptumHealth charges fees and earns investment income on managed funds.

OptumHealth sells its products primarily through its direct sales force, strategic collaborations and external producers in three markets: employers (which includes the sub-markets of large, mid-sized and small employers), payers (which includes the sub-markets of health plans, TPAs, underwriter/stop-loss carriers and individual market intermediaries) and government entities (which includes states, CMS, DoD, the Veterans Administration and other federal procurement agencies).

OptumHealth serves patients and care providers through its local ambulatory care services business and delivers care through a physician-led, patient-centric and data-driven organization comprised of over 20,000 employed, managed and contracted









physicians. OptumHealth also enables care providers’ transition from traditional, fee-for-service care delivery to performance-based delivery and payment models that put patient health and outcomes first, such as those emerging through accountable care organizations (ACOs) and local care provider partnerships. Through OptumHealth’s strategic partnerships, alliances and ownership arrangements it helps care providers adopt new approaches and technologies that improve the coordination of care across all providers involved in patient care.

MedExpress’ nearly 200 neighborhood care centers provide urgent and walk-in care services with a consumer-friendly approach.

The HouseCalls program provides in-home health assessments that engage individuals, understand their health status and needs, and close gaps in care. In 2016, HouseCalls conducted more than 1 million in-home health assessments.

OptumHealth’s mobile care delivery business delivers occupational health and medical services to government customers, with a particular focus on the U.S. military.

OptumHealth serves people through population health management services that meet both the preventative care and health intervention needs of consumers across the care continuum - physical health and wellness, mental health, complex medical conditions, disease management, hospitalization and post-acute care. This includes offering access to proprietary networks of provider specialists in many clinical specialties, including behavioral health, organ transplant, chiropractic and physical therapy. OptumHealth engages consumers in managing their health, including guidance, tools and programs that help them achieve their health goals and maintain healthy lifestyles.

Optum Financial Services, through Optum Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary, serves consumers through over 4.6 million health savings and other accounts with $7 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2016. During 2016, Optum Bank processed over $100 billion in medical payments to physicians and other health care providers. Organizations across the health system rely on Optum to manage and improve payment flows through its highly automated, scalable, electronic payment systems.

OptumInsight

OptumInsight provides services, technology and health care expertise to major participants in the health care industry. OptumInsight’s capabilities are focused on data and analytics, technology and information that help improve the quality of care and drive greater efficiency in the health care system. Hospital systems, physicians, health plans, governments, life sciences companies and other organizations that comprise the health care industry depend on OptumInsight to help them improve performance, achieve efficiency, reduce costs, meet compliance mandates and modernize their core operating systems to meet the changing needs of the health system.

Many of OptumInsight’s software and information products and professional services are delivered over extended periods, often several years. OptumInsight maintains an order backlog to track unearned revenues under these long-term arrangements. The backlog consists of estimated revenue from signed contracts, other legally binding agreements and anticipated contract renewals based on historical experience with OptumInsight’s customers. OptumInsight’s aggregate backlog at December 31, 2016, was $12.6 billion, of which $6.9 billion is expected to be realized within the next 12 months. This includes $4.5 billion related to intersegment agreements, all of which are in the current portion of the backlog. OptumInsight’s aggregate backlog at December 31, 2015, was $10.4 billion. OptumInsight cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to realize all of the revenues included in the backlog due to uncertainties with regard to the timing and scope of services and the potential for cancellation, non-renewal or early termination of service arrangements.

OptumInsight’s products and services are sold primarily through a direct sales force. OptumInsight’s products are also supported and distributed through an array of alliances and business partnerships with other technology vendors, who integrate and interface OptumInsight’s products with their applications.

OptumInsight believes it is well positioned to address the needs of four primary market segments: care providers (e.g., physicians and hospital systems), health plans, governments and life sciences companies.

Care Providers.Serving more than four out of five U.S. hospitals and tens of thousands of physicians, OptumInsight assists care providers in meeting their challenge to improve patient outcomes and care amid changing payment models and pressures. OptumInsight brings a broad array of solutions to help care providers meet these challenges, with particular focus on clinical performance and quality improvement, population health management, data management and analytics, revenue management, cost containment, compliance, cloud-enabled collaboration and consumer engagement.

Health Plans.OptumInsight serves approximately 300 health plans through cost-effective, technology-enabled solutions that help them improve efficiency, understand and optimize growth while managing risk, deliver on clinical performance and compliance goals, and build and manage strong networks of care.









Governments.OptumInsight provides services tailored to government payers, including data and analytics technology, claims management and payment accuracy services, and strategic consulting.

Life Sciences.OptumInsight provides services to global life sciences companies. These companies look to OptumInsight for data, analytics and expertise in core areas of health economics and outcomes research, market access consulting, integrated clinical and health care claims data and informatics services, epidemiology and drug safety, and patient reported outcomes.

OptumRx

OptumRx provides a full spectrum of pharmacy care services to more than 65 million people in the United States through its network of more than 67,000 retail pharmacies and multiple home delivery facilities throughout the country. In 2016, OptumRx managed more than $80 billion in pharmaceutical spending, including more than $30 billion in specialty pharmaceutical spending. OptumRx provides retail network contracting, purchasing and clinical capabilities and works with customers to develop an optimal set of programs in areas such as step therapy, formulary management, drug adherence and disease/drug therapy management to achieve a high-quality, low-cost pharmacy offering. OptumRx’s comprehensive whole-person approach to pharmacy care services integrates demographic, medical, laboratory, pharmaceutical and other clinical data and applies analytics to drive clinical care insight to support care treatments and compliance, benefiting clients and individuals through enhanced services and cost trend management.

OptumRx provides pharmacy care services to non-affiliated clients, including a number of health plans, large national employer plans, unions and trusts and government entities; as well as a substantial majority of UnitedHealthcare members. Additionally, OptumRx manages specialty pharmacy care services, including patient support and clinical programs designed to ensure quality and deliver value for consumers. OptumRx’s distribution system consists primarily of health insurance brokers and other health care consultants and direct sales.



GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Most of our health and well-being businesses are subject to comprehensive federal, state and international laws and regulations. We are regulated by federal, state and international regulatory agencies that generally have discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. The regulations can vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and the interpretation of existing laws and rules also may change periodically. Domestic and international governments continue to enact and consider various legislative and regulatory proposals that could materially impact certain aspects of the health care system. New laws, regulations and rules, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations and rules, including as a result of changes in the political climate, could adversely affect our business.

If we fail to comply with, or fail to respond quickly and appropriately to changes in, applicable laws, regulations and rules, our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. SeePart I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”for a discussion of the risks related to our compliance with federal, state and international laws and regulations.



Federal Laws and Regulation

We are subject to various levels of U.S. federal regulation. For example, when we contract with the federal government, we are subject to federal laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. CMS regulates our UnitedHealthcare businesses and certain aspects of our Optum businesses. Payments by CMS to our businesses are subject to regulations, including those governing fee-for-service and the submission of information relating to the health status of enrollees for purposes of determining the amounts of certain payments to us. CMS also has the right to audit our performance to determine our compliance with CMS contracts and regulations and the quality of care we provide to Medicare beneficiaries. Our commercial business is further subject to CMS audits related to medical loss ratios (MLRs), risk adjustment and reinsurance data.

UnitedHealthcare Community & State has Medicaid and CHIP contracts that are subject to federal regulations regarding services to be provided to Medicaid enrollees, payment for those services and other aspects of these programs. There are many regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid compliance and the regulatory environment with respect to these programs is complex. We are also subject to federal law and regulations relating to the administration of contracts with federal agencies. Our business is also subject to laws and regulations relating to consumer protection, anti-fraud and abuse, anti-kickbacks, false claims, prohibited referrals, inappropriately reducing or limiting health care services, anti-money laundering, securities and antitrust.

Affordable Care Act.The ACA expanded access to coverage and modified aspects of the commercial insurance market, as well as the Medicaid and Medicare programs, CHIP and other aspects of the health care system.









Among other requirements, the ACA expanded dependent coverage to age 26, expanded benefit requirements, eliminated certain annual and lifetime maximum limits, eliminated certain pre-existing condition limits, required coverage for preventative services without cost to members, required premium rebates if certain MLRs are not satisfied, granted members new and additional appeal rights, created new premium rate review processes, established a system of state and federal exchanges through which consumers can purchase health coverage, imposed new requirements on the format and content of communications (such as explanations of benefits) between health insurers and their members, introduced new risk sharing programs, reduced the Medicare Part D coverage gap and reduced payments to private plans offering Medicare Advantage.

The ACA is affecting how we do business and could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See alsoPart I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”for a discussion of the risks related to the ACA and related matters.

Privacy, Security and Data Standards Regulation.The administrative simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (HIPAA), apply to both the group and individual health insurance markets, including self-funded employee benefit plans. Federal regulations related to HIPAA contain minimum standards for electronic transactions and code sets and for the privacy and security of protected health information.

The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) imposed requirements on uses and disclosures of health information; included contracting requirements for HIPAA business associate agreements; extended parts of HIPAA privacy and security provisions to business associates; added federal data breach notification requirements for covered entities and business associates and reporting requirements to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Federal Trade Commission and, in some cases, to the local media; strengthened enforcement and imposed higher financial penalties for HIPAA violations and, in certain cases, imposed criminal penalties for individuals, including employees. In the conduct of our business, depending on the circumstances, we may act as either a covered entity or a business associate. Federal consumer protection laws may also apply in some instances to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information.

The use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data by our businesses is also regulated in some instances by other federal laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) or state statutes implementing GLBA. These federal laws and state statutes generally require insurers to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal health and financial information is used and the opportunity to “opt out” of certain disclosures before the insurer shares such information with a third party, and generally require safeguards for the protection of personal information. Neither the GLBA nor HIPAA privacy regulations preempt more stringent state laws and regulations that may apply to us, as discussed below.

ERISA.The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), regulates how our services are provided to or through certain types of employer-sponsored health benefit plans. ERISA is a set of laws and regulations that is subject to periodic interpretation by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) as well as the federal courts. ERISA sets forth standards on how our business units may do business with employers who sponsor employee health benefit plans, particularly those that maintain self-funded plans. Regulations established by the DOL subject us to additional requirements for claims payment and member appeals under health care plans governed by ERISA.

State Laws and Regulation

Health Care Regulation.Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. All of the states in which our subsidiaries offer insurance and HMO products regulate those products and operations. The states require periodic financial reports and establish minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners has adopted model regulations that, where implemented by states, require expanded governance practices and risk and solvency assessment reporting. Most states have adopted these or similar measures to expand the scope of regulations relating to corporate governance and internal control activities of HMOs and insurance companies. We are required to maintain a risk management framework and file a confidential self-assessment report with state insurance regulators. Reports are filed annually with Connecticut, our lead regulator, and with New York, as required by that state’s regulation. Certain states have also adopted their own regulations for minimum MLRs with which health plans must comply. In addition, a number of state legislatures have enacted or are contemplating significant reforms of their health insurance markets, either independent of or to comply with or be eligible for grants or other incentives in connection with the ACA, which may affect our operations and our financial results.

Health plans and insurance companies are regulated under state insurance holding company regulations. Such regulations generally require registration with applicable state departments of insurance and the filing of reports that describe capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. Most state insurance holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval of acquisitions and material intercompany transfers of assets, as well as transactions between the regulated companies and their parent holding companies or affiliates. These laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding companies.









Guaranty Fund Assessments.Under state guaranty association laws, certain insurance companies can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of impaired or insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or similar lines of business. Some states have similar laws relating to HMOs and other payers such as consumer operated and oriented plans (co-ops) established under the ACA. Assessments are generally based on a formula relating to our premiums in the state compared to the premiums of other insurers and could be spread out over a period of years. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets or through premiums. Any such assessment could expose our insurance entities and other insurers to the risk of paying a portion of an impaired or insolvent insurance company’s claims through state guaranty associations.

Pharmacy Regulation.

OptumRx’s businesses include home delivery and specialty pharmacies that must be licensed as pharmacies in the states in which they are located. Certain of our home delivery and specialty pharmacies must also register with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and individual state controlled substance authorities to dispense controlled substances. In addition to the laws and regulations in the states where our home delivery and specialty pharmacies are located, laws and regulations in non-resident states where we deliver pharmaceuticals may also apply, including the requirement to register with the board of pharmacy in the non-resident state. These non-resident states generally expect our home delivery and specialty pharmacies to follow the laws of the state in which the pharmacies are located, but some states also require us to comply with the laws of that non-resident state when pharmaceuticals are delivered there. As certain of our home delivery and specialty pharmacies maintain eligibility as Medicare and state Medicaid providers, their participation in the programs requires them to comply with the applicable Medicare and Medicaid provider rules and regulations. Other laws and regulations affecting our home delivery and specialty pharmacies include federal and state statutes and regulations governing the labeling, packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs and dispensing of controlled substances. See

Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”

for a discussion of the risks related to our pharmacy care services businesses.

State Privacy and Security Regulations.A number of states have adopted laws and regulations that may affect our privacy and security practices, such as state laws that govern the use, disclosure and protection of social security numbers and sensitive health information or that are designed to implement GLBA or protect credit card account data. State and local authorities increasingly focus on the importance of protecting individuals from identity theft, with a significant number of states enacting laws requiring businesses to notify individuals of security breaches involving personal information. State consumer protection laws may also apply to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. Additionally, different approaches to state privacy and insurance regulation and varying enforcement philosophies in the different states may materially and adversely affect our ability to standardize our products and services across state lines. SeePart I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with state privacy and security regulations.

Corporate Practice of Medicine and Fee-Splitting Laws.Certain of our businesses function as direct medical service providers and, as such, are subject to additional laws and regulations. Some states have corporate practice of medicine laws that prohibit specific types of entities from practicing medicine or employing physicians to practice medicine. Moreover, some states prohibit certain entities from sharing in the fees or revenues of a professional practice (fee-splitting). These prohibitions may be statutory or regulatory, or may be imposed through judicial or regulatory interpretation. The laws, regulations and interpretations in certain states have been subject to limited judicial and regulatory interpretation and are subject to change.

Consumer Protection Laws.Certain of our businesses participate in direct-to-consumer activities and are subject to regulations applicable to on-line communications and other general consumer protection laws and regulations.









Banking Regulation

Optum Bank is subject to regulation by federal banking regulators, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which performs annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with federal safety and soundness requirements, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which may perform periodic examinations to ensure that the bank is in compliance with applicable consumer protection statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. Optum Bank is also subject to supervision and regulation by the Utah State Department of Financial Institutions, which carries out annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with state safety and soundness requirements and performs periodic examinations of the bank’s compliance with applicable state banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. In the event of unfavorable examination results from any of these agencies, the bank could become subject to increased operational expenses and capital requirements, enhanced governmental oversight and monetary penalties.

International Regulation

Certain of our businesses operate internationally and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or conduct business. These regulatory regimes vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In addition, our non-U.S. businesses and operations are subject to U.S. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of U.S.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which prohibits offering, promising, providing or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage.

COMPETITION

Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,”

for additional discussion of our risks related to competition.



INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS

We have obtained trademark registration for the UnitedHealth Group, UnitedHealthcare and Optum names and logos. We own registrations for certain of our other trademarks in the United States and abroad. We hold a portfolio of patents and have patent applications pending from time to time. We are not substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents.

Unless otherwise noted, trademarks appearing in this report are trademarks owned by us. We disclaim any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.

EMPLOYEES

As ofDecember 31, 2016, we employed more than 230,000 individuals.









EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as ofFebruary 8, 2017, including the business experience of each executive officer during the past five years:

NameAgePositionStephen J. Hemsley64Chief Executive OfficerDavid S. Wichmann54PresidentLarry C. Renfro63Vice Chairman of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of OptumJohn F. Rex54Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerThomas E. Roos44Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting OfficerMarianne D. Short65Executive Vice President and Chief Legal OfficerD. Ellen Wilson59Executive Vice President, Human Capital

Our Board of Directors elects executive officers annually. Our executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation, removal or disqualification.

Mr. Hemsleyis Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group, has served in that capacity since November 2006, and has been a member of the Board of Directors since February 2000. From May 1999 to November 2014, Mr. Hemsley also served as President of UnitedHealth Group.

Mr. Wichmannis President of UnitedHealth Group. Mr. Wichmann has served as President of UnitedHealth Group since November 2014. From January 2011 to June 2016, Mr. Wichmann also served as Chief Financial Officer. From April 2008 to November 2014, Mr. Wichmann also served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealth Group Operations.

Mr. Renfrois Vice Chairman of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Optum. Mr. Renfro has served as Vice Chairman of UnitedHealth Group since November 2014 and Chief Executive Officer of Optum since July 2011. From January 2011 to July 2011, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group.

Mr. Rexis Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since June 2016. From March 2012 to June 2016, Mr. Rex served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Optum. Prior to joining Optum in 2012, Mr. Rex spent over a decade at JP Morgan, a global financial services firm, and its predecessors, concluding his tenure as a Managing Director.

Mr. Roosis Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since August 2015. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Roos was a Partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered accounting firm, from September 2007 to August 2015.

Ms. Shortis Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2013. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Short served as the Managing Partner at Dorsey & Whitney LLP, an international law firm, from January 2007 to December 2012.

Ms. Wilsonis Executive Vice President, Human Capital of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since June 2013. From January 2012 to May 2013, Ms. Wilson served as Chief Administrative Officer of Optum. Prior to joining Optum, Ms. Wilson served for 17 years at Fidelity Investments concluding her tenure there as head of Human Resources.

Additional Information

UnitedHealth Group Incorporated was incorporated in January 1977 in Minnesota. On July 1, 2015, UnitedHealth Group Incorporated changed its state of incorporation from Minnesota to Delaware pursuant to a plan of conversion. Our executive offices are located at UnitedHealth Group Center, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343; our telephone number is (952) 936-1300.

You can access our website atwww.unitedhealthgroup.comto learn more about our Company. From that site, you can download and print copies of our annual reports to shareholders, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, along with amendments to those reports. You can also download from our website our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and corporate governance policies, including our Principles of Governance, Board of









Directors Committee Charters and Code of Conduct. We make periodic reports and amendments available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We will also provide a copy of any of our corporate governance policies published on our website free of charge, upon request. To request a copy of any of these documents, please submit your request to: UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, MN 55343, Attn: Corporate Secretary. Information on or linked to our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other SEC filings.

Our transfer agent, Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, can help you with a variety of shareholder-related services, including change of address, lost stock certificates, transfer of stock to another person and other administrative services. You can write to our transfer agent at: Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, Minnesota 55164-0854, emailstocktransfer@wellsfargo.com, or telephone (800) 468-9716 or (651) 450-4064.



