ITEM  1.BUSINESS

INTRODUCTION

Overview

UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company whose mission is to help people live healthier lives and help make health care work better (the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “UnitedHealth Group,” or the “Company” used in this report refer to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and our subsidiaries). Our business model has evolved and is informed by over three decades of serving the needs of the markets, and people, of health care.

Today, we are helping individuals access quality care at an affordable cost; simplifying health care administration and delivery; strengthening the physician/patient relationship; promoting evidence-based care; and empowering physicians, health care professionals, consumers, employers and other participants in the health system with actionable data to make better, more informed decisions.

Through our diversified family of businesses, we leverage core competencies in advanced, enabling technology; health care data, information and intelligence; and care management and coordination to help meet the demands of the health system. These core competencies are deployed within our two distinct, but strategically aligned, business platforms: health benefits operating under UnitedHealthcare and health services operating under Optum.

UnitedHealthcare serves the health benefits needs of individuals across life's stages through three businesses. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual serves individual consumers and employers. The unique health needs of seniors are served by UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement. UnitedHealthcare Community & State serves the public health marketplace, offering states innovative Medicaid solutions.

Optum serves health system participants including consumers, physicians, hospitals, governments, insurers, distributors and pharmaceutical companies, through its OptumHealth, OptumInsight and OptumRx businesses. These businesses have dedicated units that drive improved access, affordability, quality and simplicity across eight markets: integrated care delivery, care management, consumer engagement and support, distribution of benefits and services, health financial services, operational services and support, health care information technology and pharmacy.

Through UnitedHealthcare and Optum, in 2011, we managed approximately $135 billion in aggregate health care spending on behalf of the constituents and consumers we served. Our revenues are derived from premiums on risk-based products; fees from management, administrative, technology and consulting services; sales of a wide variety of products and services related to the broad health and well-being industry; and investment and other income. Our two business platforms have four reportable segments:

•UnitedHealthcare, which includes UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and UnitedHealthcare Community & State;

•OptumHealth;

•OptumInsight; and

•OptumRx.

For our financial results and the presentation of certain other financial information by segment, see Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

UnitedHealthcare

UnitedHealthcare is advancing strategies to improve the way health care is delivered and financed, offering consumers a simpler, more affordable health care experience. Our market position is built on:

•a national scale;

•the breadth of our product offerings, which are responsive to many distinct market segments in health care;

•strong local market relationships;

•service and advanced technology;

•competitive medical and operating cost positions;

•effective clinical engagement;









•extensive expertise in distinct market segments; and

•a commitment to innovation.

The financial results of UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement, and UnitedHealthcare Community & State have been aggregated in the UnitedHealthcare reportable segment due to their similar economic characteristics, products and services, customers, distribution methods, operational processes and regulatory environment. These businesses also share significant common assets, including our contracted networks of physicians, health care professionals, hospitals and other facilities, information technology infrastructure and other resources. UnitedHealthcare utilizes the expertise of UnitedHealth Group affiliates for capabilities in specialized areas, such as OptumRx prescription drug services, OptumHealth care solutions and behavioral health services and OptumInsight fraud and abuse prevention and detection. UnitedHealthcare arranges for discounted access to care through networks that include a total of nearly 754,000 physicians and other health care professionals and nearly 5,400 hospitals across the United States (UnitedHealthcare Network).

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual works closely with employers and individuals to provide health benefit plans that provide personalized solutions to help members live healthier lives and achieve meaningful cost savings. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers a comprehensive array of consumer-oriented plans and services for large national employers, public sector employers, mid-sized employers, small businesses and individuals nationwide, providing nearly 26 million Americans access to health care as of December 31, 2011.

Through its risk-based product offerings, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual assumes the risk of both medical and administrative costs for its customers in return for a monthly premium, which is typically at a fixed rate per individual served for a one-year period. When providing administrative and other management services to customers that elect to self-fund the health care costs of their employees and employees' dependants, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual receives a fixed service fee per individual served. These customers retain the risk of financing medical benefits for their employees and employees' dependants, while UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual provides customized services such as coordination and facilitation of medical services and related services to customers, consumers and health care professionals, transaction processing and access to a contracted network of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals, including dental and vision. Large employer groups, such as those serviced by UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual National Accounts, typically use self-funded arrangements. As of December 31, 2011, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual National Accounts served approximately 400 large employer groups under these arrangements, including 147 of the

Fortune 500

companies. Smaller employer groups are more likely to purchase risk-based products because they are less willing or able to bear a greater potential liability for health care expenditures. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual also offers a variety of non-employer based insurance options for purchase by individuals, including students, which are designed to meet the health coverage needs of these consumers and their families.

As the commercial market becomes more consumer-oriented, individuals are assuming more personal and financial responsibility for their care, and they are demanding more affordable products, greater transparency and choice and personalized help navigating the complex system. The consolidated purchasing capacity represented by the individuals UnitedHealth Group serves makes it possible for UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual to contract for cost-effective access to a large number of conveniently located care professionals. Individuals served by UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual have access to 90% of the physicians and other health care professionals and 97% of the hospitals in the UnitedHealthcare Network; certain care providers are available only to those consumers served through Medicare and/or Medicaid products.

•

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual is engaging physicians and consumers and using information to promote well-informed health decisions, improved medical outcomes and greater efficiency. It offers consumers engaging and informative tools and resources that provide greater transparency around quality and cost, such as our Premium Designation program and Treatment Cost Estimator tool, affording our members more control over their health care.

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual's innovative clinical programs, built around an extensive clinical data set and principles of evidence-based medicine, are enabling a more integrated, proactive and personalized health system. The programs promote consumer engagement, health education, admission counseling before hospital stays, care advocacy to help avoid prolonged patients' stays in the hospital, support for individuals at risk of needing intensive treatment and coordination of care for people with chronic conditions. Disease and condition management programs help individuals address significant, complex disease states, including disease-specific benefit offerings such as the Diabetes Health Plan.

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers high-deductible consumer-driven benefit plans, which include health savings accounts (HSA) and health reimbursement accounts (HRA), enabling consumers to achieve even greater value and choice. During 2011, nearly 36,000 employer-sponsored benefit plans, including approximately 200 employers in the large group self-funded market, purchased one of these consumer-oriented products.

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual's comprehensive and integrated pharmaceutical management services promote lower









costs by using formulary programs to drive better unit costs, encouraging consumers to use drugs that offer better value and outcomes, and through physician and consumer programs that support the appropriate use of drugs based on clinical evidence. In addition, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual also offers a comprehensive range of dental, vision, life, and disability product offerings delivered through an integrated approach that enhances efficiency and effectiveness and includes a network of nearly 35,000 vision professionals in private and retail settings, and more than 180,000 dental providers.

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual's distribution system consists primarily of producers (i.e., brokers and agents) and direct and internet sales in the individual market, producers in the small employer group market, and producers and other consultant-based or direct sales for large employer and public sector groups. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual's direct distribution efforts are generally limited to the individual market, portions of the large employer group and public sector markets, and cross-selling of specialty products to existing customers. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers its products through affiliates that are licensed as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations (HMOs), or third party administrators (TPAs).

UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement

UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health and well-being services to individuals age 50 and older, addressing their unique needs for preventive and acute health care services as well as for services dealing with chronic disease and other specialized issues for older individuals. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement is fully dedicated to serving this growing senior market segment, providing products and services in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and most U.S. territories.

UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement offers a wide spectrum of Medicare products, including Medicare Advantage plans, Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage, and Medigap products that supplement traditional fee-for-service coverage, which may be sold to individuals or on a group basis. Premium revenues from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) represented28%of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, most of which were generated by UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement under a number of contracts.

UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement has extensive distribution capabilities and experience, including direct marketing to consumers on behalf of its key clients: AARP, the nation's largest membership organization dedicated to the needs of people age 50 and over; state and U.S. government agencies; and employer groups. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement also has distinct pricing, underwriting, clinical program management and marketing capabilities dedicated to risk-based health products and services in the senior and geriatric markets.



Medicare Advantage.

UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health care coverage for seniors and other eligible Medicare beneficiaries primarily through the Medicare Advantage program administered by CMS, including Medicare Advantage HMO plans, preferred provider organization (PPO) plans, Special Needs Plans, Point-of-Service (POS) plans and Private-Fee-for-Service plans. Under the Medicare Advantage programs, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health insurance coverage in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from CMS. Premium amounts vary based on the geographic areas in which members reside; demographic factors such as age, gender, and institutionalized status; and the health status of the individual.



UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement also provides complete, individualized care planning and care benefits for retirees, aging, disabled and chronically ill individuals, serving individuals enrolled in Medicare Advantage products in 30 states and in the District of Columbia in long-term care settings including nursing homes, community-based settings and private homes. In addition, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement offers innovative care management and clinical programs, integrating federal, state and personal funding through a continuum of products from Medicare Advantage and Special Needs Plans to hospice care. For high-risk patients in certain care settings and programs, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement uses proprietary, automated medical record software that enables clinical care teams to capture and track patient data and clinical encounters, creating a comprehensive set of care information that bridges across home, hospital and nursing home care settings. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement had approximately 2.2 million members enrolled in its Medicare Advantage products as of December 31, 2011. Proprietary predictive modeling tools help identify members at high risk and allow care managers to proactively outreach to members to create individualized care plans and help members obtain the right care, in the right place, at the right time.

Prescription Drug Benefit (Part D).UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides the Medicare prescription drug benefit (Part D) to beneficiaries throughout the United States and its territories. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides Part D drug coverage through its Medicare Advantage program and stand-alone Part D plans. As of December 31, 2011, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement had enrolled 7.1 million members in the Part D program, including 4.9 million members in the stand-alone Part D plans and 2.2 million members in its Medicare Advantage plans incorporating Part D coverage.

Medicare Supplement.In association with AARP, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides a range of Medicare supplement and hospital indemnity insurance offerings through insurance company affiliates to 3.8 million AARP members.

Additional UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement services include a nurse health line service, a lower cost Medicare supplement offering that provides consumers with a national hospital network, 24-hour access to health care information, and









access to discounted health services from a network of physicians.

UnitedHealthcare Community & State

UnitedHealthcare Community & State is dedicated to providing innovative Medicaid managed care solutions to states that care for the economically disadvantaged, the medically underserved and those without the benefitof employer-funded health care coverage in exchange for a monthly premium per member from the applicable state. States using managed care services for Medicaid beneficiaries select health plans using either a formal bid process, or award individual contracts. As of December 31, 2011, UnitedHealthcare Community & State participates in programs in 23 states and the District of Columbia, serving approximately 3.5 million beneficiaries of acute and long-term care Medicaid plans, the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), Special Needs Plans and other federal and state health care programs.

Optum

Optum is a technology-enabled health services business serving the broad health care marketplace, including payers, care providers, employers, government, life sciences companies and consumers. By helping connect and align health system participants and providing them actionable information at the points of decision-making, Optum helps improve overall health system performance: optimizing care quality, reducing costs and improving the consumer experience and care provider performance. Optum is organized in three segments:

•OptumHealth focuses on health management and wellness, clinical services and financial services;

•OptumInsight delivers technology, health intelligence, consulting and business outsourcing solutions; and

•OptumRx specializes in pharmacy services.

The breadth of this portfolio allows Optum to impact key activities that help enable better integrated, more sustainable health care.

OptumHealth

OptumHealth serves the physical, emotional and financial needs of 60 million unique individuals, enabling consumer health management and collaborative care delivery through programs offered by employers, payers, government entities and, increasingly, directly through the care delivery system. OptumHealth's products and services can be deployed individually or integrated to provide comprehensive solutions, addressing a broad base of needs within the health care system. OptumHealth's solutions reduce costs for customers, improve workforce productivity and consumer satisfaction and optimize the overall health and well-being of populations.

OptumHealth's simple, modular service designs can be easily integrated to meet varying employer, payer, government entity, care provider and consumer needs at a wide range of price points. OptumHealth offers its products, primarily, on an administrative fee basis whereby it manages or administers delivery of the product or services in exchange for a fixed fee per individual served, and on a risk basis, where OptumHealth assumes responsibility for health care costs in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per individual served. For its financial services offerings, OptumHealth charges fees and earns investment income on managed funds.

OptumHealth sells its products primarily through its direct sales force, strategic collaborations and external producers in three markets: employers (which includes the sub-markets of large, mid and small employers), payers (which includes the sub-markets of health plans, TPAs, underwriter/stop-loss carriers and individual market intermediaries) and government entities (which includes States, CMS, Department of Defense, Veterans Administration and other federal procurement). As provider reimbursement models evolve, care providers are emerging as a fourth market segment for our health management, financial services and collaborative care services.









OptumHealth is organized into five major operating groups: Care Solutions, Behavioral Solutions, Financial Services, Collaborative Care, and Logistics Health, Inc.

Care Solutions.Care Solutions serves more than 41 million individuals through personalized health management (e.g., wellness, chronic and complex conditions), decision support (e.g., insurance choices, treatment and health care provider options) and access to networks of care provider specialists linked to medical conditions with high variation of quality and cost (e.g., physical health, cancer and transplants). This comprehensive solution set empowers consumers and enables their collaboration with specialty care providers that is critical to decisions that drive hospitalization and surgery.

Behavioral Solutions.Behavioral Solutions serves more than 52 million individuals through global well-being solutions (e.g., employee assistance programs) and behavioral health management solutions (e.g., mental health, substance abuse) that address the emotional health needs of consumers, spanning the stress and anxiety of daily living, to depression associated with chronic illness, to clinically diagnosed mental illness. Programs combine predictive modeling, evidence-based clinical outcomes management, consumer support and peer support, with access to a leading network of behavioral health care providers. Behavioral Solutions customers have access to a national network of more than 112,000 clinicians and counselors and 3,300 facilities in approximately 6,600 locations nationwide.

Financial Services.Dedicated solely to the health care market, OptumHealth Financial Services helps organizations and individuals optimize their health care finances. As a leading provider of consumer health care accounts (e.g., health savings accounts, flexible spending accounts), OptumHealth Financial Services enables people to use those tax-favored accounts to save money today and build health savings for the future. Organizations rely upon OptumHealth Financial Services to manage and improve their cash flows through turnkey electronic payment solutions (e.g., remittance advices, funds transfers) health care-related lending and credit (e.g., financing of care provider medical equipment) and financial risk protection for third party payers and self-funded employers (e.g., comprehensive stop-loss insurance coverage).

Financial Services is comprised of OptumHealth Bank, which is a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), a TPA and a transaction processing service for the health care industry. As of December 31, 2011, Financial Services had $1.5 billion in customer assets under management and during 2011 processed $54 billion in medical payments to physicians and other health care providers.

Collaborative Care.Working closely with various health care providers in local markets and communities, Collaborative Care believes that the market is moving to a collaborative network model aligned around total population health management and outcomes-based reimbursement. In close coordination with local integrated care delivery systems, it deploys a core set of technology, risk management, analytical and clinical capabilities and tools to assist physicians in delivering high-quality care across the populations they serve. OptumHealth's coordinated post-acute care services augment primary care physicians to deliver services outside of hospitals to vulnerable, chronically ill populations. In affiliation with a broad variety of payers, Collaborative Care also delivers care to approximately 700,000 people through a spectrum of models ranging from medical clinics to contracts with individual practice association networks.

Logistics Health, Inc.Acquired in 2011, Logistics Health, Inc. (LHI) focuses on mobile care delivery, logistically arranging for convenient access to care at the time and place most needed. LHI designs and implements occupational health, medical and dental readiness services, treatments and immunization programs and disability exams for the U.S. Military, Veterans Administration and Department of Health and Human Services, as well as numerous commercial companies. Services are delivered in provider clinics or through temporary on-site resources.

OptumInsight

OptumInsight is a health information, technology, services and consulting company providing software and information products, advisory consulting services, and business process outsourcing to participants in the health care industry. Hospitals, physicians, commercial health plans, government agencies, life sciences companies and other organizations that comprise the health care system work with OptumInsight to reduce costs, meet compliance mandates, improve clinical performance and adapt to the changing health system landscape. As of December 31, 2011, OptumInsight's customer base included more than 6,000 hospital facilities, nearly 250,000 health care professionals or groups, nearly 300 commercial insurance companies and health plans, approximately 400 global life sciences companies, over 300 federal and state government agencies, including all 50 states, and approximately 150 United Kingdom government payers, as well as other UnitedHealth Group businesses.



OptumInsight’s products and services are sold primarily through a direct sales force. OptumInsight’s products are also supported and distributed through an array of alliance and business partnerships with other technology vendors, who integrate and interface its products with their applications.

OptumInsight's technology products and services solutions are offered through four integrated market groups. These market groups are Provider (e.g., physician practices and hospitals), Payer, Government and Life Sciences.

Provider.The Provider market groupcombines a comprehensive range of technology and information products, advisory









consulting, and outsourcing services focused on hospitals, integrated delivery networks, and physician practices. These solutions help providers establish efficient administrative and clinical workflows, improve patient care, and meet compliance mandates and are organized around hospital and physician practice needs for:

•Financial Performance Improvement: Provides comprehensive revenue cycle management technology, coding solutions, and full business process outsourcing for hospitals and physicians practices that drive higher net patient revenue and lower operational costs;

•Compliance: Delivers real-time medical necessity reviews and retrospective appeals management services to nearly 2,000 hospitals in all 50 states;

•Clinical Workflow and Connectivity: Provides high-acuity and ambulatory clinical workflow and electronic medical records software that makes hospital departments and physician practices more efficient, improves patient experience, and enables sharing of clinical data in integrated care settings. OptumInsight Health Information Exchange (HIE) solutions power 11 statewide HIEs and 36 regional and hospital integrated delivery network HIEs, and are used by more than 370 hospitals, more than 50,000 physicians and 165,000 health care professionals; and

•Accountable Care Solutions: Working with early adopters of Accountable Care Organization models to build the administrative, analytics, compliance, and care management infrastructure to succeed in outcomes-based payment models.

Payer.OptumInsight's Payer business serves clients that offer commercial health insurance or privately administer health insurance programs on behalf of federal or state governments (e.g., Medicare Advantage or Managed Medicaid). The business offers technology, services and consulting capabilities that supplement OptumInsight's clients' existing operations, as well as fully outsourced solutions. The business addresses diverse needs for payer clients, serving four primary areas:

•Network Performance: Comprehensive offerings to enhance performance of provider networks and improve population health, including network design, management and operation services, as well as analytical tools that support care management;

•Clinical Quality: Services that align clinical quality and performance with financial outcomes for payers, such as Medicare risk adjustment services and quality improvement consulting;

•Operational Efficiency and Payment Integrity: A spectrum of offerings focused on improving the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of payer operations. Solutions assist in addressing a wide variety of operational improvement opportunities such as process improvement and automation, fraud and abuse, claims payment accuracy and coordination of benefits; and

•Risk Optimization: Solutions help payers to grow and improve financial performance through predictive analytics and risk management services. Offerings include actuarial services, rating and underwriting products, and membership population modeling, as well as analytics and consulting.

Government Solutions.OptumInsightGovernment Solutions helps state and federal governments improve the efficiency and quality of health and human services programs by offering a broad range of solutions including:

•Program Integrity: Improves the accuracy and efficiency of provider payments through prospective and retrospective analysis of claims transactions, driving detection of fraud and abuse and checking payment accuracy;

•Health Management and Population Analytics: Measures and identifies opportunities for improvement in cost, network performance, and care management for populations of covered members. Also includes health policy advisory services; and

•Data Warehousing and Business Intelligence: Builds and manages health care specific data model and warehouse solutions for Federal and State based programs. Applies business intelligence to analyze and drive decision making to improve cost, clinical outcomes, and member satisfaction.

Life Sciences.The Life Sciences business addresses the changing global economic and regulatory competitive landscape by assisting life sciences clients in identifying, analyzing and measuring the value of their products. The Life Sciences business consults with clients by working across both research and development and brand/marketing so they can improve market access and product positioning. OptumInsight utilizes extensive real world data assets, scientifically-based research design and analytics to support the global life sciences industry and its markets through:

•Market Access and Optimization: Utilizes real-world evidence to drive increased drug revenues and decreased commercialization costs through health economics and outcomes research, pricing and reimbursements strategies, data and informatics, and late phase/Phase IV research studies;

•Strategic Regulatory Services: Focuses on design and execution of multi-national regulatory strategies to help clients speed regulatory approval and maintain compliance with dynamic regulations across geographies;









•Risk Management: Designs and executes epidemiology studies to understand detailed drug safety profiles and build integrated plans to address safety issues with regulators, providers, and patients; and

•Patient Insights: Drives collection and understanding of patient reported outcomes to inform comparative effectiveness research, patient engagement and adherence, and population health management.

Many of OptumInsight's software and information products, advisory consulting arrangements, and outsourcing contracts are performed over an extended period, often several years. OptumInsight maintains an order backlog to track unearned revenues under these long-term arrangements. The backlog consists of estimated revenue from signed contracts, other legally binding agreements and anticipated contract renewals based on historical experience that either have not started but are anticipated to begin in the near future, or are in process and have not been completed. In 2011, OptumInsight standardized backlog reporting across recent acquisitions and as a result increased the backlog by $0.4 billion. OptumInsight's aggregate backlog at December 31, 2011 was $4.0 billion, of which $2.4 billion is expected to be realized within the next 12 months. This includes $0.9 billion related to intersegment agreements, all of which are included in the current portion of the backlog. OptumInsight cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to realize all of the revenues included in backlog due to uncertainty regarding the timing and scope of services, the potential for cancellation, non-renewal, or early termination of service arrangements.

OptumRx

OptumRx provides a multitude of pharmacy benefit management (PBM) services. It serves more than 14 million people nationwide through its network of approximately 66,000 retail pharmacies and two mail service facilities, processing nearly 370 million adjusted retail, mail and specialty drug prescriptions annually. OptumRx is dedicated to helping its customers achieve optimal health while maximizing cost savings. It does this by working closely with customers to create customized solutions to improve quality and safety, increase compliance and adherence and reduce fraud and waste.

OptumRx provides PBM services and manages specialty pharmacy benefits across nearly all of UnitedHealthcare's businesses, as well as for external employer groups, union trusts, managed care organizations, Medicare-contracted plans, Medicaid plans and TPAs, including for pharmacy benefit services, mail service only, rebate services only and network services. Services include providing prescribed medications, patient support and clinical programs that ensure quality and value for consumers. OptumRx also provides claims processing, retail network contracting, rebate contracting and management and clinical programs, such as step therapy, formulary management and disease/drug therapy management programs to achieve a low-cost, high-quality pharmacy benefit. The mail order and specialty pharmacy fulfillment capabilities of OptumRx are an important strategic component in serving employers, commercial health plans, Medicaid plans and Medicare-contracted businesses, including Part D prescription drug plans. OptumRx's distribution system consists primarily of health insurance brokers and other health care consultants and direct sales.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Most of our health and well-being services are regulated by federal and state regulatory agencies that generally have discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. These regulations can vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and the interpretation of existing laws and rules also may change periodically. In the first quarter of 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and a reconciliation measure, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which we refer to together as the Health Reform Legislation, were signed into law. The Health Reform Legislation, portions of which are summarized below, alters the regulatory environment in which we operate, in some cases to a significant degree. Federal and state governments continue to enact and consider various legislative and regulatory proposals that could materially impact certain aspects of the health care system. New laws, regulations and rules, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations and rules, as well as a result of changes in the political climate, could adversely affect our business.

In the event we fail to comply with, or we fail to respond quickly and appropriately to changes in, applicable laws, regulations and rules, our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with federal and state laws and regulations.

Health Care Reforms

The Health Reform Legislation expands access to coverage and modifies aspects of the commercial insurance market, as well as the Medicaid and Medicare programs, CHIP and other aspects of the health care system. Certain provisions of the Health Reform Legislation have already taken effect, and other provisions become effective at various dates over the next several years. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and the U.S. Treasury Department have issued or proposed regulations on a number of aspects of Health Reform Legislation, but final rules and interim guidance on other key aspects of the legislation remain pending.

Certain aspects of the Health Reform Legislation are also being challenged in federal court, with the proponents of such









challenges seeking to limit the scope of or have all or portions of the Health Reform Legislation declared unconstitutional. The United States Supreme Court is scheduled to hear oral arguments on certain aspects of these cases in March 2012, including the constitutionality of the individual mandate. Congress may also withhold the funding necessary to implement the Health Reform Legislation, or may attempt to replace the legislation with amended provisions or repeal it altogether.

The following outlines certain provisions of the Health Reform Legislation that have recently taken effect or are expected to take effect in the coming years, assuming the legislation is implemented in its current form.

Effective 2010: The Health Reform Legislation mandated: the expansion of dependent coverage to include adult children until age 26; eliminated certain annual and lifetime caps on the dollar value of certain essential health benefits; eliminated pre-existing condition limits for enrollees under age 19; prohibited certain policy rescissions; prohibited plans and issuers from charging higher cost sharing (copayments or coinsurance) for emergency services that are obtained out of a plan's network; and included a requirement to provide coverage for preventive services without cost to members (for non-grandfathered plans).

The Health Reform Legislation also mandated certain changes to coverage determination and appeals processes, including: expanding the definition of “adverse benefit determination” to include rescissions; extending external review rights of adverse benefit determinations to insured and self-funded plans; and improving the clarity of and expanding the types of information in adverse benefit determination notices.

Effective 2011: Commercial fully insured health plans in the large employer group, small employer group and individual markets with medical loss ratios below certain targets (85% for large employer groups, 80% for small employer groups and 80% for individuals, as calculated under the definitions in the Health Reform Legislation and regulations, subject to state specific exceptions) are required to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their customers annually. Rebate payments for 2011 will be made in mid 2012. A state can request a waiver of the individual market medical loss ratio for up to three years if the state petitions and provides to HHS certain supporting data, and HHS determines that the requirement is disruptive to the market in that state. By the end of 2011, 17 states petitioned HHS for waivers of the mandated individual market medical loss ratio, of which six were wholly or partially granted. The Health Reform Legislation also mandated consumer discounts of 50% on brand name prescription drugs and 7% on generic prescription drugs for Part D plan participants in the coverage gap. These consumer discounts will gradually increase over the next several years, which will decrease consumer out-of-pocket drug spending within the coverage gap, shifting a portion of these costs to the plan sponsor.

In addition, as required under the Health Reform Legislation, HHS established a federal premium rate review process, which became effective in September 2011 and generally applies to proposed rate increases equal to or exceeding 10% (with state-specific thresholds to be applicable commencing September 2012). The regulations further require commercial health plans to provide to the states and HHS extensive information supporting any rate increases subject to the new federal rate review process. The regulations clarify that HHS review will not supersede existing state review and approval processes, but plans deemed to have a history of “unreasonable” rate increases may be prohibited from participating in the state-based exchanges that become active under the Health Reform Legislation in 2014. Under the regulations, the HHS rate review process would apply only to health plans in the individual and small group markets.

Effective 2011/2012:  CMS reduced or froze benchmarks which affect our Medicare Advantage reimbursements from CMS between 2009 and 2011, and beginning in 2012, additional cuts to Medicare Advantage benchmarks will take effect (benchmarks will ultimately range from 95% of Medicare fee-for-service rates in high cost areas to 115% in low cost areas), with changes being phased-in over two to six years, depending on the level of benchmark reduction in a county. In addition to other measures, quality bonuses may partially offset these anticipated benchmark reductions as CMS quality rating bonuses are phased in over three years beginning in 2012.

Effective 2013: Effective beginning in 2013 with respect to services performed after 2009, the Health Reform Legislation limits the deductibility of executive compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code for insurance providers if at least 25% of the insurance provider's gross premium income from health business is derived from health insurance plans that meet the minimum creditable coverage requirements.

Effective 2013/2014: The Health Reform Legislation provides for an increase in Medicaid fee-for-service and managed care program reimbursements for primary care services provided by primary care doctors (family medicine, general internal medicine or pediatric medicine) to 100% of the Medicare payment rates for 2013 and 2014, and provides 100% federal financing for the difference in rates based on rates applicable on July 1, 2009.

Effective 2014: A number of the provisions of the Health Reform Legislation are scheduled to take effect in 2014, including: an annual insurance industry assessment ($8 billion levied on the insurance industry in 2014 with increasing annual amounts thereafter), which is not deductible for income tax purposes; expansion of Medicaid eligibility for all individuals and families with incomes up to 133% of the federal poverty level (states can early adopt the expansion without increased federal funding prior to 2014) with states receiving full federal matching in 2014 through 2016; all









individual and group health plans must offer coverage on a guaranteed issue and guaranteed renewal basis during annual open enrollment and special enrollment periods and cannot apply pre-existing condition exclusions or health status rating adjustments; elimination of annual limits on essential benefits coverage on certain plans; establishment of state-based exchanges for individuals and small employers (generally, with up to 100 employees) as well as certain CHIP eligibles; introduction of plan designs based on set actuarial values to increase comparability of competing products on the exchanges; and establishment of minimum medical loss ratio of 85% for Medicare Advantage plans, as calculated under rules that have not yet been issued.

The Health Reform Legislation and the related federal and state regulations will impact how we do business and could restrict revenue and enrollment growth in certain products and market segments, restrict premium growth rates for certain products and market segments, increase our medical and administrative costs, expose us to an increased risk of liability (including increasing our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations and contract interpretation) or put us at risk for loss of business. In addition, our results of operations, financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by such changes. The Health Reform Legislation may also create new or expand existing opportunities for business growth, but due to its complexity, the impact of the Health Reform Legislation remains difficult to predict and is not yet fully known. See also Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to the Health Reform Legislation and related matters.



Other Federal Laws and Regulation

We are subject to various levels of federal regulation. For example, when we contract with the federal government, we are subject to federal laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. CMS regulates our UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and UnitedHealthcare Community & State Medicare and Medicaid businesses, as well as certain aspects of our Optum businesses. Our UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and UnitedHealthcare Community & State businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to CMS (or state agencies) for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. CMS also has the right to audit performance to determine compliance with CMS contracts and regulations and the quality of care given to Medicare beneficiaries. See Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and risk factors in this Form 10-K for a discussion of audits by CMS.

Our UnitedHealthcare reporting segment, through UnitedHealthcare Community & State, also has Medicaid and CHIP contracts that are subject to federal regulations regarding services to be provided to Medicaid enrollees, payment for those services and other aspects of these programs. There are many regulations surrounding Medicare and Medicaid compliance, and the regulatory environment with respect to these programs has become and will continue to become increasingly complex as a result of the Health Reform Legislation. In addition, certain of Optum's businesses hold contracts with federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Defense, and we are subject to federal law and regulations relating to the administration of these contracts.

Certain of UnitedHealthcare's and Optum's businesses, such as UnitedHealthcare's eyeglass manufacturing activities and Optum's high clinical acuity workflow software, hearing aid products, and clinical research activities, are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and the clinical research activities are also subject to laws and regulations outside of the United States that regulate clinical trials. Laws and regulations relating to consumer protection, anti-fraud and abuse, anti-kickbacks, false claims, prohibited referrals, inappropriately reducing or limiting health care services, anti-money laundering, securities and antitrust also affect us.

HIPAA, GLBA and Other Privacy and Security Regulation.The administrative simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (HIPAA), apply to both the group and individual health insurance markets, including self-funded employee benefit plans. HIPAA requires guaranteed health care coverage for small employers and certain eligible individuals. It also requires guaranteed renewability for employers and individuals and limits exclusions based on pre-existing conditions. Federal regulations related to HIPAA include minimum standards for electronic transactions and code sets, and for the privacy and security of protected health information. The HIPAA privacy regulations do not preempt more stringent state laws and regulations that may also apply to us.

Federal privacy and security requirements change frequently because of legislation, regulations and judicial or administrative interpretation. For example, the U.S. Congress enacted the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), which significantly amends, and adds new privacy and security provisions to HIPAA and imposes additional requirements on uses and disclosures of health information. ARRA includes new contracting requirements for HIPAA business associate agreements; extends parts of HIPAA privacy and security provisions to business associates; adds new federal data breach notification requirements for covered entities and business associates and new reporting requirements to HHS and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and, in some cases, to the local media; strengthens enforcement and imposes higher financial penalties for HIPAA violations and, in certain cases, imposes criminal penalties for individuals, including employees. We are awaiting final









regulations on many key aspects of the ARRA amendments to HIPAA. In the conduct of our business, we may act, depending on the circumstances, as either a covered entity or a business associate. Federal consumer protection laws may also apply in some instances to privacy and security practices related to personal identifiable information. The use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data by our businesses is also regulated in some instances by other federal laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) or state statutes implementing GLBA, which generally require insurers to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal health and financial information is used and the opportunity to “opt out” of certain disclosures before the insurer shares such information with a third party, and which generally require safeguards for the protection of personal information. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with HIPAA, GLBA and other privacy-related regulations.

ERISA.The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), regulates how goods and services are provided to or through certain types of employer-sponsored health benefit plans. ERISA is a set of laws and regulations that is subject to periodic interpretation by the DOL as well as the federal courts. ERISA places controls on how our business units may do business with employers who sponsor employee benefit health plans, particularly those that maintain self-funded plans. Regulations established by the DOL provide additional rules for claims payment and member appeals under health care plans governed by ERISA. Additionally, some states require licensure or registration of companies providing third-party claims administration services for health care plans.

FDIC.The FDIC has federal regulatory authority over OptumHealth Bank and performs annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with federal safety and soundness requirements. In addition to such annual examinations, the FDIC performs periodic examinations of the bank's compliance with applicable federal banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. In the event of unfavorable examination results, the bank could be subject to increased operational expenses and capital requirements, governmental oversight and monetary penalties.

State Laws and Regulation

Health Care Regulation.Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. All of the states in which our subsidiaries offer insurance and HMO products regulate those products and operations. These states require periodic financial reports and establish minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. With the amendment of the Annual Financial Reporting Model Regulation by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) to adopt elements substantially similar to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we expect that these states will continue to expand the scope of regulations relating to corporate governance and internal control activities of HMOs and insurance companies. Certain states have also adopted their own regulations for minimum medical loss ratios with which health plans must comply. In addition, a number of state legislatures have enacted or are contemplating significant reforms of their health insurance markets, either independent of or to comply with or be eligible for grants or other incentives in connection with the Health Reform Legislation. We expect the states to continue to introduce and pass similar laws in 2012, and this will affect our operations and our financial results.

Health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations. Such regulations generally require registration with applicable state departments of insurance and the filing of reports that describe capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. Some state insurance holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval of acquisitions and material intercompany transfers of assets, as well as transactions between the regulated companies and their parent holding companies or affiliates. These laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding companies.

In addition, some of our business and related activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including PPO, managed care organization (MCO), utilization review (UR) or third-party administrator-related regulations and licensure requirements. These regulations differ from state to state, and may contain network, contracting, product and rate, and financial and reporting requirements. There are laws and regulations that set specific standards for delivery of services, payment of claims, adequacy of health care professional networks, fraud prevention, the protection of consumer health information, pricing and underwriting practices and covered benefits and services. State health care anti-fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing unnecessary medical services and improper marketing. Certain of our businesses are subject to state general agent, broker, and sales distributions laws and regulations. Our UnitedHealthcare Community & State and UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement businesses are subject to regulation by state Medicaid agencies that oversee the provision of benefits to our Medicaid and CHIP beneficiaries and to our dually-eligible Medicaid beneficiaries. We also contract with state governmental entities and are subject to state laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of state government contracts.

Guaranty Fund Assessments.Under state guaranty fund laws, certain insurance companies (and HMOs in some states), including those issuing health, long-term care, life and accident insurance policies, doing business in those states can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of insolvent insurance companies









that write the same line or lines of business. Assessments generally are based on a formula relating to premiums in the state compared to the premiums of other insurers and could be spread out over a period of years. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. See Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of a matter involving Penn Treaty Network American Insurance Company and its subsidiary (Penn Treaty), which have been placed in rehabilitation.

Pharmacy Regulation.OptumRx's mail order pharmacies must be licensed to do business as pharmacies in the states in which they are located. Our mail order pharmacies must also register with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and individual state controlled substance authorities to dispense controlled substances. In many of the states where our mail order pharmacies deliver pharmaceuticals there are laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail order pharmacies to register with that state's board of pharmacy or similar regulatory body. These states generally permit the pharmacy to follow the laws of the state in which the mail order pharmacy is located, although some states require that we also comply with certain laws in that state. Our mail order pharmacies maintain certain Medicare and state Medicaid provider numbers as pharmacies providing services under these programs. Participation in these programs requires the pharmacies to comply with the applicable Medicare and Medicaid provider rules and regulations. Other laws and regulations affecting our mail order pharmacies include federal and state statutes and regulations governing the labeling, packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs and dispensing of controlled substances. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to our PBM businesses.

Privacy and Security Laws.States have adopted regulations to implement provisions of the GLBA. Like HIPAA, GLBA allows states to adopt more stringent requirements governing privacy protection. A number of states have also adopted other laws and regulations that may affect our privacy and security practices, for example, state laws that govern the use, disclosure and protection of social security numbers and sensitive health information or that are designed to protect credit card account data. State and local authorities increasingly focus on the importance of protecting individuals from identity theft, with a significant number of states enacting laws requiring businesses to notify individuals of security breaches involving personal information. State consumer protection laws may also apply to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. Additionally, different approaches to state privacy and insurance regulation and varying enforcement philosophies in the different states may materially and adversely affect our ability to standardize our products and services across state lines. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with state privacy and security-related regulations.

UDFI.The Utah State Department of Financial Institutions (UDFI) has state regulatory and supervisory authority over OptumHealth Bank and in conjunction with federal regulators performs annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with state safety and soundness requirements. In addition to such annual examinations, the UDFI in conjunction with federal regulators performs periodic examinations of the bank's compliance with applicable state banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. In the event of unfavorable examination results, the bank could be subjected to increased operational expenses and capital requirements, governmental oversight and monetary penalties.



Corporate Practice of Medicine and Fee-Splitting Laws.Certain of our businesses function as direct service providers to care delivery systems and, as such, are subject to additional laws and regulations. Some states have corporate practice of medicine laws that prohibit certain entities from practicing medicine or employing physicians to practice medicine. Additionally, some states prohibit certain entities from sharing in the fees or revenues of a professional practice (fee-splitting). These prohibitions may be statutory or regulatory, or may be a matter of judicial or regulatory interpretation. These laws, regulations and interpretations have, in certain states, been subject to limited judicial and regulatory interpretation and are subject to change.

Consumer Protection Laws.Certain businesses participate in direct-to-consumer activities and are subject to emerging regulations applicable to on-line communications and other general consumer protection laws and regulations.

Audits and Investigations

We have been and are currently involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments, state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General, the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, the FTC, U.S. Congressional committees, the U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Attorneys, the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the DOL, the FDIC and other governmental authorities. Such government actions can result in assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs. See Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details. In addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation, audit results or sanctions could adversely affect our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services and retain our current business.

International Regulation

Most of our business is conducted in the United States. However, some of our businesses and operations are international in nature and are consequently subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or conduct business. These









regulatory regimes encompass tax, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, investment, management control, anti-fraud, anti-corruption and privacy and data protection regulations (including requirements for cross-border data transfers) that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, among other matters. These international operations are also subject to United States laws that regulate activities of U.S.-based businesses abroad.

COMPETITION



EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 99,000 individuals. We believe our employee relations are generally positive.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as ofFebruary 8, 2012, including the business experience of each executive officer during the past five years:

NameAgePositionStephen J. Hemsley59President and Chief Executive OfficerDavid S. Wichmann49Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealth Group OperationsRichard N. Baer54Executive Vice President and Chief Legal OfficerGail K. Boudreaux51Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcareWilliam A. Munsell59Executive Vice PresidentEric S. Rangen55Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting OfficerLarry C. Renfro58Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of OptumLori Sweere53Executive Vice President of Human CapitalReed V. Tuckson, M.D.60Executive Vice President and Chief of Medical AffairsAnthony Welters56Executive Vice President

Our Board of Directors elects executive officers annually. Our executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified.

Mr. Hemsleyis President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group, has served in that capacity since January 2007, and has been a member of the Board of Directors since February 2000.

Mr. Wichmannis Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealth Group Operations and has served in that capacity since January 2011. Mr. Wichmann has served as Executive Vice President and President of UnitedHealth Group Operations since April 2008. From January 2007 to April 2008, Mr. Wichmann served as









Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Commercial Markets Group (now UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual).

Mr. Baeris Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since May 2011. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Baer served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Qwest Communications International Inc. from 2007 to April 2011 and Chief Administrative Officer from August 2008 to April 2011.

Ms. Boudreauxis Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcare and has served in that capacity since January 2011. Ms. Boudreaux has overall responsibility for all UnitedHealthcare health benefits businesses. Ms. Boudreaux served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealthcare from May 2008 to January 2011. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Boudreaux served as Executive Vice President of Health Care Services Corporation (HCSC) from January 2007 to April 2008.

Mr. Munsellis Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2011. Mr. Munsell focuses on enterprise-wide initiatives, including emerging growth and expansion opportunities; public, regulatory and governmental affairs and representation; reputation and market image efforts, and external relationships and alliances for the enterprise. Mr. Munsell served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Enterprise Services Group from September 2007 to January 2011. From January 2007 to August 2007, Mr. Munsell served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group.

Mr. Rangenis Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2007.

Mr. Renfrois Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Optum and has served in that capacity since July 2011. From January 2011 to July 2011, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group. From October 2009 to January 2011, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of the Public and Senior Markets Group. From January 2009 to October 2009, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Ovations (now UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement). Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Renfro served as President of Fidelity Developing Businesses at Fidelity Investments and as a member of the Fidelity Executive Committee from June 2008 to January 2009. From January 2007 to May 2008, Mr. Renfro held several senior positions at AARP Services Inc., including President and Chief Executive Officer of AARP Services Inc., Chief Operating Officer of AARP Services Inc., President and Chief Executive Officer of AARP Financial and President of the AARP Funds.

Ms. Sweereis Executive Vice President of Human Capital of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since June 2007. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Sweere served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources of CNA Financial Corporation from January 2007 to May 2007.

Dr. Tucksonis Executive Vice President and Chief of Medical Affairs of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2007.

Mr. Weltersis Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2007. Mr. Welters focuses on enterprise-wide initiatives, including emerging growth and expansion opportunities; public, regulatory and governmental affairs and representation; reputation and market image efforts, and external relationships and alliances for the enterprise. Mr. Welters served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Public and Senior Market Group from September 2007 to January 2011.

Additional Information

UnitedHealth Group Incorporated was incorporated in January 1977 in Minnesota. Our executive offices are located at UnitedHealth Group Center, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343; our telephone number is (952) 936-1300.

You can access our website atwww.unitedhealthgroup.comto learn more about our Company. From that site, you can download and print copies of our annual reports to shareholders, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, along with amendments to those reports. You can also download from our website our Articles of Incorporation, bylaws and corporate governance policies, including our Principles of Governance, Board of Directors Committee Charters, and Code of Conduct. We make periodic reports and amendments available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports to the SEC. We will also provide a copy of any of our corporate governance policies published on our website free of charge, upon request. To request a copy of any of these documents, please submit your request to: UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, MN 55343, Attn: Corporate Secretary. Information on or linked to our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other SEC filings.

Our transfer agent, Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, can help you with a variety of shareholder-related services, including change of address, lost stock certificates, transfer of stock to another person and other administrative services. You can write to









our transfer agent at: Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, Minnesota 55164-0854, emailstocktransfer@wellsfargo.com, or telephone (800) 468-9716 or (651) 450-4064.



