ITEM 1.BUSINESS

INTRODUCTION

Overview

UnitedHealth Group
Incorporated is a diversified health and well-being company, serving more than 70 million Americans (the terms “we,” “our,” “us” “UnitedHealth Group” or the “Company” used in this report refer
to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and our subsidiaries). Our focus is on improving the overall health and well-being of the people we serve and their communities and enhancing the performance of the health system. We work with physicians and other
health care professionals, hospitals and other key partners to expand access to high quality health care. We help people get the care they need at an affordable cost, support the physician/patient relationship, and empower people with the
information, guidance and tools they need to make personal health choices and decisions.

During 2009, we managed approximately $120 billion
in aggregate health care spending on behalf of the constituents and consumers we served. Our primary focus is on improving the health care system by simplifying the administrative components of health care delivery, promoting evidence-based medicine
as the standard for care, and providing relevant, actionable data that physicians, health care professionals, consumers, employers and other participants in health care can use to make better, more informed decisions.

Through our diversified family of businesses, we leverage core competencies in advanced technology-based transactional capabilities; health care data,
knowledge and information; and health care resource organization and care facilitation to improve access to health and well-being services, simplify the health care experience, promote quality and make health care more affordable. These core
competencies are focused in two market areas – health benefits and health services. Health benefits are offered in the individual and employer markets and the public and senior markets through our UnitedHealthcare, Ovations and AmeriChoice
businesses. Health services are provided to the participants in the health system itself, ranging from employers and health plans to physicians and life sciences companies through our OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions businesses.

Our revenues are derived from premiums on risk-based products; fees from management, administrative, technology and consulting services;
sales of a wide variety of products and services related to the broad health and well-being industry; and investment and other income. We have four reporting segments:



•Health Benefits (formerly Health Care Services), which includes UnitedHealthcare, Ovations and AmeriChoice;



•OptumHealth;



•Ingenix; and



•Prescription Solutions

For a discussion of our financial results by reporting segment, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Additional Information

UnitedHealth Group
Incorporated was incorporated in January 1977 in Minnesota. Our executive offices are located at UnitedHealth Group Center, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343; our telephone number is (952) 936-1300.

You can access our website atwww.unitedhealthgroup.comto learn more about our Company. From that site, you can download and print copies of our
annual reports to shareholders, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly







reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, along with amendments to those reports. You can also download from our website our Articles of Incorporation, bylaws and corporate
governance policies, including our Principles of Governance, Board of Directors Committee Charters, and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We make periodic reports and amendments available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after
we file or furnish these reports to the SEC. We will also provide a copy of any of our corporate governance policies published on our website free of charge, upon request. To request a copy of any of these documents, please submit your request to:
UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, MN 55343, Attn: Corporate Secretary.

Our transfer agent, Wells Fargo
Shareowner Services, can help you with a variety of shareholder-related services, including change of address, lost stock certificates, transfer of stock to another person and other administrative services. You can write to our transfer agent at:
Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, Minnesota 55164-0854, emailstocktransfer@wellsfargo.com, or telephone (800) 468-9716 or (651) 450-4064.

DESCRIPTION OF REPORTING SEGMENTS

Health Benefits

Our Health Benefits reporting segment consists of the following businesses: UnitedHealthcare, Ovations and AmeriChoice. The financial results of
UnitedHealthcare, Ovations and AmeriChoice have been aggregated in the Health Benefits reporting segment due to their similar economic characteristics, products and services, types of customers, distribution methods, operational processes and
regulatory environment. These businesses also share significant common assets, including our contracted networks of physicians, health care professionals, hospitals and other facilities, information technology infrastructure and other resources.
Health Benefits arranges for discounted access to care through a network of approximately 700,000 physicians and other health care professionals and 5,200 hospitals across the United States.

UnitedHealthcare

Fortune

UnitedHealthcare offers its products through affiliates that are licensed as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations (HMOs), or third party administrators (TPAs). UnitedHealthcare’s product strategy centers on several
principles: consumer choice, broad access to health professionals, and use of data and science to promote better outcomes, quality service, transparency and affordability. Integrated wellness programs and services help individuals make informed
decisions, maintain healthy lifestyles and optimize health outcomes by coordinating access to care services and providing personalized, targeted education and information services.







Individuals served by UnitedHealthcare have access to approximately 88% of the physicians and other health
care professionals and 96% of the hospitals in the Health Benefits network. The consolidated purchasing capacity represented by the individuals UnitedHealth Group serves makes it possible for UnitedHealthcare to contract for cost-effective access to
a large number of conveniently located care professionals. Directly or through UnitedHealth Group’s family of companies, UnitedHealthcare offers:



•A comprehensive range of benefit plans integrating medical, ancillary and alternative care products so customers can choose benefits that are right for
them;



•Affordability across a broad set of price points and a wide product line, from offerings covering essential needs to comprehensive benefit plans, all
of which offer access to our broad-based proprietary network of contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals with economic benefits reflective of the aggregate purchasing capacity of our organization;



•Innovative clinical programs that are built around an extensive clinical data set and principles of evidence-based medicine;



•Consumer access to information about physician and hospital performance against quality and cost efficiency criteria based on claims data assessment
through the UnitedHealth Premium Designation Program and the UnitedHealth Hospital Comparison Program;



•Physician and facility access to performance feedback information to support continuous quality improvement;



•Care facilitation services that use several identification tools, including proprietary predictive technology to identify individuals with significant
gaps in care and unmet needs or risks for potential health problems, and then facilitate appropriate interventions;



•Disease and condition management programs to help individuals address significant, complex disease states; and



•Convenient self-service tools for health transactions and information.

UnitedHealthcare’s regional and national access to broad, affordable and quality networks of health care professionals has advanced over the past several years, with significant increases in access
to services throughout the United States. UnitedHealthcare has also organized health care alliances with select regional not-for-profit health plans to facilitate greater customer access and affordability.

UnitedHealthcare’s innovation distinguishes its product offerings from its competition. Its consumer-oriented health benefits and services value
individual choice and control in accessing health care. UnitedHealthcare has programs that provide health education, admission counseling before hospital stays, care advocacy to help avoid delays in patients’ stays in the hospital, support for
individuals at risk of needing intensive treatment and coordination of care for people with chronic conditions. To provide consumers with the necessary resources and information to make more informed choices when managing their health, data-driven
networks and clinical management are organized through clinical lines of service such as cardiology, oncology, neuroscience, orthopedics, women’s health, primary care and emergency services. UnitedHealthcare also offers comprehensive and
integrated pharmaceutical management services that promote lower costs by using formulary programs that drive better unit costs for drugs, benefit designs that encourage consumers to use drugs that offer better value and outcomes, and physician and
consumer programs that support the appropriate use of drugs based on clinical evidence.

UnitedHealthcare provides innovative programs that
enable consumers to take ownership and control of their health care benefits. These products include high-deductible consumer-driven benefit plans coupled with health reimbursement accounts (HRAs), or health savings accounts (HSAs), and are offered
on a self-funded and fully-insured basis. UnitedHealthcare provided these products to approximately 24,000 employer-sponsored benefit plans during 2009, including approximately 150 employers in the large group self-funded market serviced by
UnitedHealthcare National Accounts.







UnitedHealthcare’s distribution system consists primarily of brokers and direct and internet sales in
the individual market, brokers in the small employer group market, and brokers and other consultant-based or direct sales for large employer and public sector groups. UnitedHealthcare’s direct distribution efforts are generally limited to the
individual market, portions of the large employer group and public sector markets, and cross-selling of specialty products to existing customers.

Ovations

Ovations provides health and well-being services for individuals age 50 and older, addressing their unique
needs for preventive and acute health care services as well as for services dealing with chronic disease and other specialized issues for older individuals. Ovations is fully dedicated to this market segment, as it provides products and services in
all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and most U.S. territories. Ovations participates nationally in the Medicare program, offering a wide-ranging spectrum of Medicare products, including Medigap products that supplement traditional
fee-for-service coverage, more traditional health-plan-type programs under Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage, and special offerings for beneficiaries who are chronically ill and/or Medicaid and Medicare dual-eligible.

Ovations has extensive capabilities and experience with distribution, including direct marketing to consumers on behalf of its key clients
– AARP, the nation’s largest membership organization dedicated to the needs of people age 50 and over, state and U.S. government agencies and employer groups. Ovations also has distinct pricing, underwriting, clinical program management
and marketing capabilities dedicated to risk-based health products and services in the senior and geriatric markets.

Ovations currently has a
number of contracts with Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), which primarily relate to the Medicare health benefit programs authorized under the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act. Premium revenues from CMS were 27% of our total
consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, most of which were generated by Ovations.

Ovations provides health care
coverage for seniors and other eligible Medicare beneficiaries primarily through the Medicare Advantage program administered by CMS. Ovations also offers Medicare Advantage HMO plans, preferred provider organization (PPO) plans, Special Needs Plans,
Point-of-Service (POS) plans and Private-Fee-for-Service plans. Under the Medicare Advantage programs, Ovations provides health insurance coverage to eligible Medicare beneficiaries in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from CMS that
varies based on the geographic areas in which members reside, demographic factors such as age, gender, and institutionalized status, and the health status of the individual. Ovations offers Medicare Advantage products in all 50 states and the
District of Columbia. As of December 31, 2009, Ovations had approximately 1.8 million enrolled individuals in its Medicare Advantage products.

Additionally, Ovations provides the Medicare prescription drug benefit (Part D) to beneficiaries throughout the United States and its territories. Among the several Part D plans it offers, Ovations
provides Medicare Part D coverage plans with the AARP brand. Ovations provides Part D drug coverage through its Medicare Advantage program, Special Needs Plans (covering individuals who live in an institutional long-term care setting, individuals
dual-eligible for Medicaid and Medicare services or individuals with severe or disabling chronic conditions) and stand-alone Part D plans. As of December 31, 2009, Ovations had enrolled approximately 5.9 million members in the Part D
program, including approximately 4.3 million members in the stand-alone Part D plans and approximately 1.6 million members in Medicare Advantage plans incorporating Part D coverage.

In association with AARP, Ovations provides a range of standardized Medicare supplement and hospital indemnity insurance offerings from its insurance
company affiliates to approximately 3.8 million AARP members. Additional Ovations services include a nurse healthline service, a lower cost standardized Medicare supplement offering that provides consumers with a national hospital network,
24-hour access to health care information, and access to discounted health services from a network of physicians.







Ovations also provides complete, individualized care planning and care benefits for aging, disabled and
chronically ill individuals. Ovations serves approximately 365,000 individuals (including approximately 255,000 individuals in the Medicare Advantage products) across the nation in long-term care settings including nursing homes, community-based
settings and private homes, as well as through hospice and palliative care. Ovations offers services through innovative care management and clinical programs, integrating federal, state and personal funding through a continuum of products from
Special Needs Plans and long-term care Medicaid programs to hospice care, and serves people in 35 states and in the District of Columbia in home, community and nursing home settings. These services are provided primarily through nurse practitioners,
nurses and care managers.

Ovations also offers a comprehensive eldercare service program providing service coordination, consultation, claim
management and information resources nationwide. Proprietary, automated medical record software enables the Ovations clinical care teams to capture and track patient data and clinical encounters, creating a comprehensive set of coherent care
information that bridges across home, hospital and nursing home care settings for high-risk populations. Ovations also operates hospice and palliative care programs in 16 local markets in 11 states.

AmeriChoice

AmeriChoice provides
network-based health and well-being services to beneficiaries of State Medicaid Children’s Health Insurance Programs (SCHIP), and other government-sponsored health care programs. AmeriChoice provides health insurance coverage to eligible
Medicaid beneficiaries in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from the applicable state. AmeriChoice also offers government agencies a number of diverse management service programs, including a clinical care consulting program, disease
and conditions management, pharmacy benefit services and administrative and technology services, to help them effectively administer their distinct health care delivery systems and benefits for individuals in their programs. AmeriChoice also
contracts with CMS for the provision of Special Needs Plans serving individuals dual-eligible for Medicaid and Medicare services. These programs are primarily organized toward enrolling individuals who are dual-eligible for Medicaid and Medicare
coverage in states where AmeriChoice operates its Medicaid health plans. As of December 31, 2009, AmeriChoice covered 2.8 million beneficiaries through all of its programs in 22 states and District of Columbia.

AmeriChoice’s approach is grounded in its belief that health care cannot be provided effectively without considering all of the factors (social,
behavioral, economic, environmental, and physical) that affect a person’s life. AmeriChoice coordinates resources among family members, physicians, other health care professionals and government and community-based agencies and organizations to
provide continuous and effective care. For members, this means that the AmeriChoice Personal Care Model offers them a holistic approach to health care, emphasizing practical programs to improve their living circumstances as well as quality medical
care and treatment in accessible, culturally sensitive, community-oriented settings. For example, AmeriChoice’s disease management and outreach programs focus on high-prevalence and debilitating illnesses such as hypertension and cardiovascular
disease, asthma, sickle cell disease, diabetes, Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS), cancer and high-risk pregnancy. AmeriChoice has developed several of these programs with the help of leading researchers and
clinicians at academic medical centers and medical schools.

For physicians, the AmeriChoice Personal Care Model means assistance with
coordination of their patients’ care. AmeriChoice utilizes sophisticated technology to monitor preventive care interventions and evidence-based treatment protocols to support care management. AmeriChoice operates advanced and unique pharmacy
administrative services, including benefit design, generic drug incentive programs, drug utilization review and preferred drug list development to help optimize the use of appropriate quality pharmaceuticals and concurrently manage pharmacy
expenditures to levels appropriate to the specific clinical situations.

For state customers, the AmeriChoice Personal Care Model means
increased access to care and improved quality for their beneficiaries, in a measurable system that reduces their administrative burden and lowers their costs. AmeriChoice considers a variety of factors when determining in which state programs to
participate and on what







basis. They include a state’s consistency of support for service innovation and funding of its Medicaid program, the population base, the commitment of the physician/provider community to
the AmeriChoice Personal Care Model, and the presence of community-based organizations that can partner with AmeriChoice to meet member needs.

OptumHealth

OptumHealth serves nearly 58 million unique individuals with its diversified offering of health, financial
and ancillary benefit services and products that assist consumers in navigating the health care system, accessing health services based on their needs, supporting their emotional health and well-being, providing ancillary insurance benefits and
helping people finance their health care needs through account-based programs. OptumHealth seeks to simplify the consumer health care experience and facilitate the efficient and effective delivery of care. Its capabilities can be deployed
individually or integrated to provide a comprehensive solution oriented around a broad base of consumer needs within the health care system.

OptumHealth’s simple, modular service designs can be easily integrated to meet varying employer, payer, public sector and consumer needs at a wide range of price points. OptumHealth offers its products on an administrative fee basis
where it manages and administers benefit claims for self-insured customers in exchange for a fixed fee per individual served, and on a risk basis, where OptumHealth assumes responsibility for health care costs in exchange for a fixed monthly premium
per individual served. For its financial services offerings, OptumHealth charges fees and earns investment income on managed funds.

OptumHealth distributes its products through three strategic markets: employer (which includes the sub-markets of large, mid and small employers), payer (which includes the sub-markets of health plans, third party administrators,
underwriter/stop-loss carriers and individual market intermediaries) and public sector (which includes Medicaid, Medicare and Federal procurement).

OptumHealth is one brand, organized into four major operating groups: OptumHealth Care Solutions, OptumHealth Financial Services, OptumHealth Behavioral Solutions and OptumHealth Specialty Benefits.

Care Solutions.Care Solutions serves more than 40 million individuals through personalized health management solutions that improve
people’s health and well-being, improve clinical outcomes and workforce productivity and reduce health care costs. Programs include wellness and prevention, disease management, case management, physical health programs, complex condition
management, specialized provider networks, personalized health portals and consumer marketing services.

Care Solutions also provides benefit
administration and clinical and network management for chiropractic, physical therapy, occupational therapy and other complementary and alternative care services through its national network consisting of approximately 24,000 chiropractors, 16,000
physical and occupational therapists and 8,000 complementary and alternative health professionals.

Financial Services.Financial Services provides health-based financial services for consumers, employers, payers and health care professionals. These financial services include HSAs, HRAs and Flexible Spending Accounts offered through OptumHealth
Bank, a Utah-chartered industrial bank. As of December 31, 2009, Financial Services had approximately $860 million in assets under management. Financial Services’ health benefit card programs include electronic systems for
verification of benefit coverage and eligibility. Financial Services also provides electronic payment and statement services for health care professionals and payers. In 2009, Financial Services electronically transmitted $36 billion in medical
payments to physicians and other health care providers.

Behavioral Solutions.Behavioral Solutions serves 43 million
individuals with its employee assistance programs, work/life offerings, and clinically driven behavioral health, substance abuse and psychiatric disability management programs. Its consumer-focused programs incorporate state-of-the-art predictive
modeling,







outcomes management and evidence-based best practices, which result in better care and a reduction in overall health care costs. Behavioral Solutions customers have access to a national network
of approximately 87,000 clinicians and counselors and approximately 2,900 facilities in 5,000 locations.

Specialty Benefits.Specialty Benefits includes dental, vision, life, critical illness, short-term disability and stop-loss product offerings delivered through an integrated platform that enhances efficiency and effectiveness. Specialty Benefits covers nearly
23 million individuals and includes a network of approximately 32,000 vision professionals in private and retail settings, and approximately 119,000 dental providers. Stop-loss insurance is marketed throughout the United States through a
network of TPAs, brokers and consultants.

Ingenix

Ingenix offers database and data management services, software products, publications, consulting and actuarial services, business process outsourcing services and pharmaceutical data consulting and
research services in conjunction with the development of pharmaceutical products on a nationwide and international basis. As of December 31, 2009, Ingenix’s customers include approximately 6,000 hospitals, 245,000 physicians, 2,000 payers
and intermediaries, 200Fortune 500companies, 655 life sciences companies, 350 government entities, and 135 United Kingdom Government Payers, as well as other UnitedHealth Group businesses.

Ingenix is engaged in the simplification of health care administration with information and technology. Ingenix helps customers accurately and efficiently
manage the information flowing through the health care system. Ingenix uses data to help advance transparency on cost and quality and help customers streamline their processes to make health care more efficient. Ingenix is a leader in contract
research services, and pharmacoeconomics, epidemiology and safety and outcomes (including comparative effectiveness) research through its i3 businesses.

Ingenix’s products and services are sold primarily through a direct sales force focused on specific customers and market segments across the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, employer, government,
hospital, physician, payer and property and casualty insurance market segments. Ingenix’s products are also supported and distributed through an array of alliance and business partnerships with other technology vendors, who integrate and
interface its products with their applications.

Many of Ingenix’s contract research services, consulting arrangements and software and
related information services are performed over an extended period, often several years. Ingenix maintains an order backlog to track unearned revenues under these long-term arrangements. The backlog consists of estimated revenue from signed
contracts or other legally binding agreements that either have not started but are anticipated to begin in the near future, or are in process and have not been completed. Ingenix’s aggregate backlog at December 31, 2009 was $2.2 billion,
of which $1.6 billion is expected to be realized within the next 12 months. This includes $0.7 billion related to intersegment agreements all of which are included in the current portion. Ingenix cannot provide any assurance that it will
be able to realize all of the revenues included in backlog due to uncertainty regarding the timing and scope of services and the potential for cancellation or early termination of certain service arrangements.

The Ingenix companies are divided into two groups: Information Services and i3.

Information Services.Information Services’ diverse product offerings help clients strengthen health care administration and advance health care outcomes. These products include health
care utilization reporting and analytics, physician clinical performance benchmarking, clinical data warehousing, analysis and management responses for medical cost trend management, physician practice revenue cycle management, including integrated
electronic medical record systems, revenue and payment cycle management for payer and health care professional organizations, payment accuracy solutions, decision-support portals for evaluation of health benefits and treatment options, risk
management solutions, connectivity solutions and claims management tools to reduce administrative errors and support fraud recovery services. Information Services uses proprietary software







applications that manage clinical and administrative data across diverse information technology environments. Information Services also uses proprietary predictive algorithmic applications to
help clients detect and act on repetitive health care patterns in large data sets. Information Services offers comprehensive Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) services helping health care professionals and payers decrease costs of claims
transmission, payment and reimbursement through both networked and direct connection services. Information Services publishes print and electronic media products that provide customers with information regarding medical claims coding, reimbursement,
billing and compliance issues.

Information Services provides other services, such as verification of physician credentials, health care
professional directories, Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS) reporting, and fraud and abuse detection and prevention services. Information Services also offers consulting services, including actuarial and financial advisory
work through its Ingenix Consulting division and health care policy research, implementation, strategy and management consulting through its subsidiary, The Lewin Group, as well as product development, health care professional contracting and
medical policy management.

i3.i3 uses comprehensive, science-based evaluation and analysis and benchmarking services to
support pharmaceutical and biotechnology development. i3 provides services on a nationwide and international basis, helping customers effectively and efficiently get drug data to appropriate regulatory bodies and to improve health outcomes through
integrated information, analysis and technology. i3’s capabilities and efforts focus on the entire range of product assessment, through commercialization of life-cycle management services – pipeline assessment, market access and product
positioning, clinical trials, economic, epidemiology and safety and outcomes (including comparative effectiveness) research. i3’s global contract research services include regulatory assistance, project management, data management,
biostatistical analysis, quality assurance, medical writing and staffing resource services. i3’s contract research services are therapeutically focused on oncology, the central nervous system, respiratory, infectious and pulmonary diseases and
endocrinology.

Prescription Solutions

Prescription Solutions offers a comprehensive suite of integrated pharmacy benefit management (PBM) services to approximately 11 million people, delivering drug benefits through approximately
66,000 retail network pharmacies and two mail service facilities as of December 31, 2009. Prescription Solutions processed approximately 320 million adjusted scripts in 2009 by servicing internal customers in our Health Benefits
segment, as well as external employer groups, union trusts, managed care organizations, Medicare-contracted plans, Medicaid plans and TPAs, including mail service only and carve-out accounts.

Prescription Solutions’ integrated PBM services include retail network pharmacy management, mail order pharmacy services, specialty pharmacy
services, benefit design consultation, drug utilization review, formulary management programs, disease therapy management and adherence programs. Prescription Solutions’ products and services are designed to enhance clinical outcomes
with reduced costs for those served. The fulfillment capabilities of Prescription Solutions are an important strategic component in serving commercial health plans and Medicare-contracted businesses, including Part D prescription drug plans.

Prescription Solutions’ distribution system consists primarily of health insurance brokers and other health care consultant-based or
direct sales. In addition to PBM services, Prescription Solutions’ Consumer Health Products division delivers diabetic testing and other specialized medical supplies, over the counter items, vitamins and supplements directly to
members’ homes.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Most of our health and well-being services are regulated by federal and state regulatory agencies that generally have discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. This
regulation can vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Federal and state governments continue to enact and consider







various legislative and regulatory proposals that could materially impact certain aspects of the health care system, including proposals to address the affordability and availability of health
insurance and to reduce the number of uninsured individuals. The interpretation of existing laws and rules also may change periodically. New laws, regulations and rules, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations and rules, could
negatively affect our business. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable laws, regulations and rules. In the event we fail to comply with federal and state regulations, or fail to respond quickly and appropriately to
health care reforms and frequent changes in federal and state regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks
related to compliance with federal and state government regulations.

Federal Laws and Regulation

We are subject to various levels of federal regulation. CMS regulates Ovations and AmeriChoice Medicare and Medicaid businesses. CMS has the right to audit
performance to determine compliance with CMS contracts and regulations and the quality of care given to Medicare beneficiaries. Our Health Benefits reporting segment, through AmeriChoice and Ovations, also has Medicaid and SCHIP contracts that are
subject to federal regulations regarding services to be provided to Medicaid enrollees, payment for those services, and other aspects of these programs. There are many regulations surrounding Medicare and Medicaid compliance. When we contract with
the federal government, we are subject to federal laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. In addition, the portion of Ingenix’s business that includes clinical research is subject
to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Laws and regulations relating to consumer protection, anti-fraud and abuse, anti-kickbacks, anti-money laundering, securities and antitrust also affect us.

HIPAA, GLBA and Other Privacy and Security Regulation.The administrative simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (HIPAA), apply to both the group and individual health insurance markets, including self-funded employee benefit plans. HIPAA requires guaranteed health care coverage for small employers and certain eligible
individuals. It also requires guaranteed renewability for employers and individuals and limits exclusions based on preexisting conditions. Federal regulations promulgated pursuant to HIPAA include minimum standards for electronic transactions and
code sets, and for the privacy and security of protected health information. The HIPAA privacy regulations do not preempt more stringent state laws and regulations that may also apply to us.







ERISA.The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), regulates how
goods and services are provided to or through certain types of employer-sponsored health benefit plans. ERISA is a set of laws and regulations subject to periodic interpretation by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) as well as the federal courts.
ERISA places controls on how our business units may do business with employers who sponsor employee benefit health plans, particularly those that maintain self-funded plans. Regulations established by the DOL provide additional rules for claims
payment and member appeals under health care plans governed by ERISA. Additionally, some states require licensure or registration of companies providing third-party claims administration services for health care plans.

FDIC.The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) has federal regulatory and supervisory authority over OptumHealth Bank and performs
annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with federal safety and soundness requirements. In addition to such annual examinations, the FDIC performs periodic examinations of the bank’s compliance with applicable
federal banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. In the event of unfavorable examination results, the bank could be subject to increased operational expenses, governmental oversight and monetary penalties.

State Laws and Regulation

Health
Care Regulation.Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. All of the states in which our subsidiaries offer insurance and HMO products regulate those products and operations.
These states require periodic financial reports and establish minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. With the amendment of the Annual Financial Reporting Model Regulation by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners to
adopt elements substantially similar to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we expect that these states will continue to expand the scope of regulations relating to corporate governance and internal control activities of HMOs and insurance companies.

Health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations. Such regulations generally require
registration with applicable state departments of insurance and the filing of reports that describe capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. Some state insurance holding
company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval of acquisitions and material intercompany transfers of assets, as well as transactions between the regulated companies and their parent holding companies or affiliates. These laws may
restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends.

In addition, some of our business and related activities may be subject
to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including PPO, managed care organization (MCO), utilization review (UR) or third-party administrator-related regulations and licensure requirements. These regulations differ from state to
state, but may contain network, contracting, product and rate, and financial and reporting requirements. There are laws and regulations that set specific standards for delivery of services, payment of claims, adequacy of health care professional
networks, fraud prevention, protection of consumer health information, pricing and underwriting practices, and covered benefits and services. State health care anti-fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including
kickbacks for referral of members, billing unnecessary medical services, and improper marketing. Our AmeriChoice and Ovations Medicaid businesses are subject to regulation by state Medicaid agencies that oversee the provision of benefits by
AmeriChoice to its Medicaid and SCHIP beneficiaries and by Ovations to its Medicaid beneficiaries. We also contract with state governmental entities and are subject to state laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance
of state government contracts.

Pharmacy Regulation.Prescription Solutions’ mail order pharmacies must be licensed to do
business as a pharmacy in the state in which they are located. Our mail order pharmacies must also register with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and individual state controlled substance authorities to dispense controlled substances. In
many of the states where our mail order pharmacies deliver pharmaceuticals there are laws and







regulations that require out-of-state mail order pharmacies to register with that state’s board of pharmacy or similar regulatory body. These states generally permit the pharmacy to follow
the laws of the state in which the mail order pharmacy is located, although some states require that we also comply with certain laws in that state. Our mail order pharmacies maintain certain Medicare and state Medicaid provider numbers as
pharmacies providing services under these programs. Participation in these programs requires the pharmacies to comply with the applicable Medicare and Medicaid provider rules and regulations. Other laws and regulations affecting our mail order
pharmacies include federal and state statutes and regulations govern the labeling, packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs and dispensing of controlled substances. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of
the risks related to our PBM businesses.

Privacy and Security Laws.States have adopted regulations to implement provisions of
the GLBA. Like HIPAA, GLBA allows states to adopt more stringent requirements governing privacy protection. A number of states have also adopted other laws and regulations that may affect our privacy and security practices, for example, state laws
that govern the use, disclosure and protection of social security numbers. State and local authorities increasingly focus on the importance of protecting individuals from identity theft, with a significant number of states enacting laws requiring
businesses to notify individuals of security breaches involving personal information. State consumer protection laws may also apply to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information, including information related to
consumers and care providers. Additionally, different approaches to state privacy and insurance regulation and varying enforcement philosophies in the different states may adversely affect our ability to standardize our products and services across
state lines. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with state privacy-related regulations.

UDFI.In addition, the Utah State Department of Financial Institutions (UDFI) has state regulatory and supervisory authority over OptumHealth Bank and in conjunction with federal regulators performs annual examinations to
ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with state safety and soundness requirements. In addition to such annual examinations, the UDFI in conjunction with federal regulators performs periodic examinations of the bank’s compliance with
applicable state banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. In the event of unfavorable examination results, the bank could be subjected to increased operational expenses, governmental oversight and monetary penalties.

Commitments.In connection with the PacifiCare Health Systems, Inc. (PacifiCare) and Sierra Health Services, Inc. (Sierra) acquisitions, which
closed in December 2005 and February 2008, respectively, certain of our subsidiaries entered into various commitments with state regulatory departments, principally in California and Nevada. Many of the PacifiCare commitments in California
expired on December 19, 2009. We believe that none of the remaining commitments in any of the affected states will materially affect our operations.

Audits and Investigations

We have been and are currently involved in various governmental
investigations, audits and reviews. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments, state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General, the Office of
Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, U.S. Congressional committees, the U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Attorneys, the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Labor and other governmental authorities. Such government
actions can result in assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs. See Note 14 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for details. In addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation, audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services and retain our current
business.

International Regulation

Some of our business units, including Ingenix’s i3 business, have international operations. These international operations are subject to different legal and regulatory requirements in different jurisdictions, including various tax,
tariff and trade regulations, as well as employment, intellectual property, privacy, and investment rules and laws.







COMPETITION

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 80,000 individuals. We believe our employee relations are generally positive.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 3, 2010, including the business experience of each executive officer during the past five years:



NameAgePositionStephen J. Hemsley57President and Chief Executive OfficerGeorge L. Mikan III38Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerGail K. Boudreaux49Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealthcareWilliam A. Munsell57Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of Enterprise Services GroupEric S. Rangen53Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting OfficerLarry C. Renfro56Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Public and Senior Markets GroupLori K. Sweere51Executive Vice President of Human CapitalChristopher J. Walsh44Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant SecretaryAnthony Welters54Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of Public and Senior Markets GroupDavid S. Wichmann47Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealth Group OperationsMitchell E. Zamoff42Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary







Our Board of Directors elects executive officers annually. Our executive officers serve until their
successors are duly elected and qualified.

Mr. Hemsleyis President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group, has served
in that capacity since November 2006, and has been a member of the Board of Directors since February 2000. Mr. Hemsley served as President and Chief Operating Officer from 2004 to November 2006. He joined UnitedHealth Group in 1997 and held
various executive positions with the Company from 1997 to 2004.

Mr. Mikanis Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since November 2006. Mr. Mikan served as Senior Vice President of Finance of UnitedHealth Group from February 2006 to November 2006. From June 2004 to February 2006, Mr. Mikan served as
Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealthcare and as President of UnitedHealth Networks. Mr. Mikan was Chief Financial Officer of Specialized Care Services (now OptumHealth) in 2004. Mr. Mikan joined UnitedHealth Group in 1998 and held
various executive positions with the Company from 1998 to 2004.

Ms. Boudreauxis Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group
and President of UnitedHealthcare and has served in that capacity since May 2008. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Boudreaux served as Executive Vice President of Health Care Services Corporation (HCSC) from December 2005 to May 2008
and as President of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Illinois, a division of HCSC, from 2002 to December 2005.

Mr. Munsellis
Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Health Services Group and has served in that capacity since September 2007. From December 2006 to August 2007, Mr. Munsell served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth
Group. From November 2004 to December 2006, Mr. Munsell served as Chief Executive Officer of Specialized Care Services (now OptumHealth). In 2004, Mr. Munsell served as the Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Operating Officer of
UnitedHealthcare. Mr. Munsell joined UnitedHealth Group in 1997 and held various executive positions with the Company from 1997 to 2004.

Mr. Rangenis Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since December 2006. From November 2006 to December 2006, Mr. Rangen was Senior Vice President of
UnitedHealth Group. Mr. Rangen joined UnitedHealth Group in November 2006. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Rangen served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Alliant Techsystems Inc. from April 2004 to March
2006 and as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Alliant Techsystems, Inc. from 2001 to April 2004.

Mr. Renfrois
Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of the Public and Senior Markets Group and has served in that capacity since October 2009. From January 2009 to October 2009, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice
President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Ovations. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Renfro served as President of Fidelity Developing Businesses at Fidelity Investments and as a member of the Fidelity Executive
Committee from June 2008 to January 2009. From November 2005 to May 2008, Mr. Renfro held several senior positions at AARP Services Inc., including President and Chief Executive Officer of AARP Services Inc., Chief Operating Officer of AARP
Services Inc., President and Chief Executive Officer of AARP Financial and President of the AARP Funds. From November 2004 to October 2005, Mr. Renfro served as Managing Director of Devonshire Financial Group. Mr. Renfro served as Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of New River Inc. from 1998 to October 2004.

Ms. Sweereis Executive Vice President of Human Capital
of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since June 2007. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Sweere served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources of CNA Corporation from October 2004 to April 2007 and held various
leadership positions with CNA Corporation from 2003 to October 2004.

Mr. Walshis Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Assistant Secretary of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since October 2009. From August 2007 to October 2009, Mr. Walsh served as Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of UnitedHealth Group, and from January 2009 to
October 2009,







Mr. Walsh served also as interim Co-Chief Legal Officer of UnitedHealth Group. Mr. Walsh joined UnitedHealth Group in August 2007. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Walsh
was a partner at Hogan and Hartson from July 2000 to August 2007.

Mr. Weltersis Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group
and President of the Public and Senior Market Group and has served in that capacity since September 2007. Mr. Welters was named Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group in November 2006. From 2004 to November 2006, Mr. Welters was
President and Chief Executive Officer of AmeriChoice. Mr. Welters joined UnitedHealth Group in 2002 and held various executive positions with the Company from 2002 to 2004.

Mr. Wichmannis Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealth Group Operations and has served in that capacity since April 2008. From December 2006 to April
2008, Mr. Wichmann served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Commercial Markets Group (now UnitedHealthcare). From July 2004 to December 2006, Mr. Wichmann served as President and Chief Operating Officer
of UnitedHealthcare. In 2004, Mr. Wichmann served as Chief Executive Officer of Specialized Care Services (now OptumHealth). Mr. Wichmann joined UnitedHealth Group in 1998 and held various executive positions with the Company from 1998 to
2004.

Mr. Zamoffis Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of UnitedHealth Group and has served in
that capacity since October 2009. From March 2008 to October 2009, Mr. Zamoff served as General Counsel of UnitedHealthcare, and from January 2009 to October 2009, Mr. Zamoff served also as interim Co-Chief Legal Officer of UnitedHealth
Group. Mr. Zamoff joined UnitedHealth Group in March 2008. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Zamoff was a partner at Hogan and Hartson from January 2001 to March 2008, and from December 1996 to December 2000 Mr. Zamoff served
as Assistant U.S. Attorney for the U.S. Department of Justice.



