ITEM 1.BUSINESS

INTRODUCTION

Overview

UnitedHealth Group is a diversified health and well-being company, whose focus is on improving the overall health and well-being of the people we serve
and their communities and enhancing the performance of the health system (the terms “we,” “our,” “us” “UnitedHealth Group” or the “Company” used in this report refer to UnitedHealth Group
Incorporated and our subsidiaries). We work with health care professionals and other key partners to expand access to high quality health care. We help people get the care they need at an affordable cost; support the physician/patient relationship;
and empower people with the information, guidance and tools they need to make personal health choices and decisions.

During 2010, we managed
approximately $125 billion in aggregate health care spending on behalf of the constituents and consumers we served across our various businesses. Our primary focus is on improving the health care system by simplifying the administrative components
of health care delivery, promoting evidence-based medicine as the standard for care, and providing relevant, actionable data that physicians, health care professionals, consumers, employers and other participants in health care can use to make
better, more informed decisions.

Through our diversified family of businesses, we leverage core competencies in advanced technology-based
transactional capabilities; health care data, knowledge and information; and health care resource organization and care facilitation to help make health care work better. These core competencies are focused in two market areas, health benefits and
health services. Health benefits are offered in the individual and employer markets and the public and senior markets through our UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual (formerly UnitedHealthcare), UnitedHealthcare Medicare &
Retirement (formerly Ovations), and UnitedHealthcare Community & State (formerly AmeriChoice) businesses. Health services are provided to the participants in the health system itself, ranging from consumers, employers and health plans to
physicians and life sciences companies through our OptumHealth, Ingenix and Prescription Solutions businesses. In aggregate, these businesses have more than two dozen distinct business units that address specific end markets. Each of these business
units focuses on the key goals in health and well-being: access, affordability, quality and simplicity as they apply to their specific market.

Our revenues are derived from premiums on risk-based products; fees from management, administrative, technology and consulting services; sales of a wide
variety of products and services related to the broad health and well-being industry; and investment and other income. We have four reporting segments:



•Health Benefits, which includes UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and UnitedHealthcare
Community & State;



•OptumHealth;



•Ingenix; and



•Prescription Solutions.

For our financial results and the presentation of certain other financial information by segment, see Note 14 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

2011 Business Realignment

On January 1, 2011, we realigned certain of our businesses to respond to changes in the markets we serve and the opportunities that are emerging as the health system evolves. For example, in 2011
OptumHealth’s results of operations will include our clinical services assets, including Southwest Medical multi-specialty clinics in







Nevada and our Evercare nurse practitioners serving the frail and elderly, which had historically been reported in UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual and UnitedHealthcare
Medicare & Retirement, respectively. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s results of operations will include OptumHealth Specialty Benefits, including dental, vision, life and disability. There were no changes to our
reportable segments as a result of these changes. Our periodic filings beginning with our first quarter 2011 Form 10-Q will include historical segment results restated to reflect the effect of this realignment.

Additional Information

UnitedHealth
Group Incorporated was incorporated in January 1977 in Minnesota. Our executive offices are located at UnitedHealth Group Center, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343; our telephone number is (952) 936-1300.

You can access our website atwww.unitedhealthgroup.comto learn more about our Company. From that site, you can download and print copies of our
annual reports to shareholders, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, along with amendments to those reports. You can also download from our website our Articles of Incorporation, bylaws and
corporate governance policies, including our Principles of Governance, Board of Directors Committee Charters, and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We make periodic reports and amendments available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably
practicable after we file or furnish these reports to the SEC. We will also provide a copy of any of our corporate governance policies published on our website free of charge, upon request. To request a copy of any of these documents, please submit
your request to: UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, MN 55343, Attn: Corporate Secretary.

Our transfer agent,
Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, can help you with a variety of shareholder-related services, including change of address, lost stock certificates, transfer of stock to another person and other administrative services. You can write to our transfer
agent at: Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, Minnesota 55164-0854, emailstocktransfer@wellsfargo.com, or telephone (800) 468-9716 or (651) 450-4064.

DESCRIPTION OF REPORTING SEGMENTS

Health Benefits

The financial results of UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement, and UnitedHealthcare
Community & State have been aggregated in the Health Benefits reporting segment due to their similar economic characteristics, products and services, types of customers, distribution methods, operational processes and regulatory
environment. These businesses also share significant common assets, including our contracted networks of physicians, health care professionals, hospitals and other facilities, information technology infrastructure and other resources. Health
Benefits utilizes the expertise of UnitedHealth Group affiliates for capabilities in specialized areas, such as prescription drug services, behavioral health services and fraud and abuse prevention and detection. Health Benefits arranges for
discounted access to care through networks that include a total of 730,000 physicians and other health care professionals and 5,300 hospitals across the United States.

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual

UnitedHealthcare
Employer & Individual offers a comprehensive array of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services for large national employers, public sector employers, mid-sized employers, small businesses and individuals nationwide.
UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual facilitated access to health care services on behalf of approximately 25 million Americans as of December 31, 2010. With its risk-based product offerings, UnitedHealthcare Employer &
Individual assumes the risk of both medical and administrative costs for its customers in return for a monthly premium, which is typically at a fixed rate per individual served for a one-year







period. When providing administrative and other management services to customers that elect to self-fund the health care costs of their employees and employees’ dependants, UnitedHealthcare
Employer & Individual receives a fixed service fee per individual served. These customers retain the risk of financing medical benefits for their employees and employees’ dependants, while UnitedHealthcare Employer &
Individual provides coordination and facilitation of medical services, customer and health care professional services and access to a contracted network of physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals. Large employer groups, such as
those serviced by UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual National Accounts, typically use self-funded arrangements. As of December 31, 2010, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual National Accounts served 372 large employer
groups under these arrangements, including 144 of theFortune 500companies. Small employer groups are more likely to purchase risk-based products because they are less willing or able to bear a greater potential liability for health care
expenditures. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual also offers a variety of non-employer based insurance options for purchase by individuals, including students, which are designed to meet the health coverage needs of these consumers and
their families.

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers its products through affiliates that are licensed as insurance
companies, health maintenance organizations (HMOs), or third party administrators (TPAs). UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s product strategy centers on several principles: consumer choice, broad access to health professionals,
and use of data and science to promote better outcomes, quality service, transparency and affordability. Integrated wellness programs and services help individuals make informed decisions, maintain healthy lifestyles and optimize health outcomes by
coordinating access to care services and providing personalized, targeted education and information services.

Individuals served by
UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual have access to approximately 90% of the physicians and other health care professionals and 96% of the hospitals through the UnitedHealth Group networks. The consolidated purchasing capacity represented
by the individuals UnitedHealth Group serves makes it possible for UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual to contract for cost-effective access to a large number of conveniently located care professionals. Directly or through UnitedHealth
Group’s family of companies, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers:



•A comprehensive range of benefit plans integrating medical, ancillary and alternative care products so customers can choose benefits that are right for
them;



•Affordability across a broad set of price points and a wide product line, from offerings covering essential needs to comprehensive benefit plans, all
of which offer access to our broad-based proprietary network of contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals with economic benefits reflective of the aggregate purchasing capacity of our organization;



•Innovative clinical programs that are built around an extensive clinical data set and principles of evidence-based medicine;



•Consumer access to information about physician and hospital performance against quality and cost efficiency criteria based on claims data assessment
through the UnitedHealth Premium Designation Program and the UnitedHealth Hospital Comparison Program;



•Physician and facility access to performance feedback information to support continuous quality improvement;



•Care facilitation services that use several identification tools, including proprietary predictive technology to identify individuals with significant
gaps in care and unmet needs or risks for potential health problems, and then facilitate appropriate interventions;



•Disease and condition management programs to help individuals address significant, complex disease states, including disease-specific benefit offerings
such as the Diabetes Health Plan; and



•Convenient self-service tools for health transactions and information.







UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s regional and national access to broad, affordable and
quality networks of health care professionals has advanced over the past several years, with significant increases in access to services throughout the United States. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual has also organized health care
alliances with select regional not-for-profit health plans to facilitate greater customer access and affordability.

UnitedHealthcare
Employer & Individual’s innovation distinguishes its product offerings from its competition. Its consumer-oriented health benefits and services value individual choice and control in accessing health care. UnitedHealthcare
Employer & Individual has programs that provide health education, admission counseling before hospital stays, care advocacy to help avoid delays in patients’ stays in the hospital, support for individuals at risk of needing intensive
treatment and coordination of care for people with chronic conditions. To provide consumers with the necessary resources and information to make more informed choices when managing their health, data-driven networks and clinical management are
organized through clinical lines of service such as cardiology, oncology, neuroscience, orthopedics, women’s health, primary care and emergency services. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual also offers comprehensive and integrated
pharmaceutical management services that promote lower costs by using formulary programs that drive better unit costs for drugs, benefit designs that encourage consumers to use drugs that offer better value and outcomes, and physician and consumer
programs that support the appropriate use of drugs based on clinical evidence.

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual provides
innovative programs that give consumers more financial control of their spending decisions for health care. These products include high-deductible consumer-driven benefit plans coupled with health reimbursement accounts (HRAs), or health savings
accounts (HSAs), which are offered on a self-funded and fully-insured basis. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual provided these products to approximately 32,000 employer-sponsored benefit plans during 2010, including approximately 160
employers in the large group self-funded market.

UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s distribution system consists
primarily of brokers and direct and internet sales in the individual market, brokers in the small employer group market, and brokers and other consultant-based or direct sales for large employer and public sector groups. UnitedHealthcare
Employer & Individual’s direct distribution efforts are generally limited to the individual market, portions of the large employer group and public sector markets, and cross-selling of specialty products to existing customers.

UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement

UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health and well-being services for individuals age 50 and older, addressing their unique needs for preventive and acute health care services as
well as for services dealing with chronic disease and other specialized issues for older individuals. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement is fully dedicated to this market segment, as it provides products and services in all 50 states,
the District of Columbia, and most U.S. territories. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement participates nationally in the Medicare program, offering a wide-ranging spectrum of Medicare products, including Medigap products that supplement
traditional fee-for-service coverage, more traditional health-plan-type programs under Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage, and special offerings for beneficiaries who are chronically ill and/or Medicaid and Medicare
dual-eligible. Premium revenues from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) were 27% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010, most of which were generated by UnitedHealthcare
Medicare & Retirement under a number of contracts.

UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement has extensive capabilities and
experience with distribution, including direct marketing to consumers on behalf of its key clients – AARP, the nation’s largest membership organization dedicated to the needs of people age 50 and over, state and U.S. government agencies
and employer groups. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement also has distinct pricing, underwriting, clinical program management and marketing capabilities dedicated to risk-based health products and services in the senior and geriatric
markets.







UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health care coverage for seniors and other eligible
Medicare beneficiaries primarily through the Medicare Advantage program administered by CMS, including Medicare Advantage HMO plans, preferred provider organization (PPO) plans, Special Needs Plans, Point-of-Service (POS) plans and
Private-Fee-for-Service plans. Under the Medicare Advantage programs, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health insurance coverage to eligible Medicare beneficiaries in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from CMS
that varies based on the geographic areas in which members reside; demographic factors such as age, gender, and institutionalized status; and the health status of the individual. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement offers Medicare
Advantage products in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. As of December 31, 2010, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement had approximately 2.1 million enrolled individuals in its Medicare Advantage products.

Additionally, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides the Medicare prescription drug benefit (Part D) to beneficiaries throughout the
United States and its territories. Among the several Part D plans it offers, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides Medicare Part D coverage plans with the AARP brand. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides Part D
drug coverage through its Medicare Advantage program, Special Needs Plans (covering individuals who live in an institutional long-term care setting, individuals dual-eligible for Medicaid and Medicare services or individuals with severe or disabling
chronic conditions) and stand-alone Part D plans. As of December 31, 2010, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement had enrolled approximately 6.5 million members in the Part D program, including approximately 4.5 million
members in the stand-alone Part D plans and approximately 2.0 million members in Medicare Advantage plans incorporating Part D coverage.

In association with AARP, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides a range of member funded standardized Medicare supplement and hospital
indemnity insurance offerings from its insurance company affiliates to approximately 3.7 million AARP members. Additional UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement services include a nurse healthline service, a lower cost standardized
Medicare supplement offering that provides consumers with a national hospital network, 24-hour access to health care information, and access to discounted health services from a network of physicians.

UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement also provides complete, individualized care planning and care benefits for aging, disabled and
chronically ill individuals. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement serves approximately 196,000 individuals enrolled in Medicare Advantage products across the nation in long-term care settings including nursing homes, community-based
settings and private homes. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement offers innovative care management and clinical programs, integrating federal, state and personal funding through a continuum of products from Special Needs Plans to hospice
care. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement serves people in 30 states and in the District of Columbia in home, community and nursing home settings serving members primarily through nurse practitioners, nurses and care managers.

UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement also offers a comprehensive eldercare service program providing service coordination,
consultation, claim management and information resources nationwide. Proprietary, automated medical record software enables clinical care teams to capture and track patient data and clinical encounters, creating a comprehensive set of care
information that bridges across home, hospital and nursing home care settings for high-risk populations. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement also operates hospice and palliative care programs in 15 local markets in 11 states.

UnitedHealthcare Community & State

UnitedHealthcare Community & State provides solutions to states that care for the economically disadvantaged, the medically underserved, and those without benefit of employer-funded health care
coverage in exchange for a monthly premium per member from the applicable state. As of December 31, 2010, UnitedHealthcare Community & State offers health plans in 23 states and the District of Columbia, serving over 3.3 million
beneficiaries of acute and long-term care Medicaid plans, the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP),







Special Needs Plans and other federal and state health care programs. UnitedHealthcare Community & State’s health plans and care programs are designed to address the complex needs
of the populations they serve, including the chronically ill, those with disabilities, and people with higher risk medical, behavioral and social conditions. UnitedHealthcare Community & State’s approach leverages the national
capabilities of UnitedHealthcare and delivers them through public programs at the local market level to support effective care management, strong regulatory partnerships, greater administrative efficiency, improved clinical outcomes, and the ability
to adapt to a changing market environment.

For more than 20 years, UnitedHealthcare Community & State has served the needs of
underserved, economically disadvantaged, and vulnerable individuals in multiple and diverse geographic markets. UnitedHealthcare Community & State focuses on addressing medical issues, as well as the social, behavioral and economic barriers
individuals face in improving or maintaining their health status. UnitedHealthcare Community & State coordinates resources among family, physicians, other health care providers, and government and community-based agencies and organizations
to facilitate continuous and effective care. For example, the Personal Care Model establishes an ongoing relationship between health care professionals and individuals who have serious and chronic health conditions to help them maintain the best
possible health and functional status, whether care is delivered in an acute care setting, long-term care facility or at home.

UnitedHealthcare Community & State’s programs for families and children focus on high-prevalence and debilitating chronic illnesses such as
hypertension and cardiovascular disease, asthma, sickle cell disease, diabetes, HIV/AIDS and high-risk pregnancies. Programs for the long-term care population focus on dementia, depression, coronary disease and functional-use deficiencies that
impede daily living.

OptumHealth

OptumHealth serves more than 63 million unique individuals with its diversified offering of health, financial and ancillary benefit services, and products that assist consumers in navigating the
health care system, accessing health services based on their needs, supporting their emotional health and well-being, providing ancillary insurance benefits and helping people finance their health care needs through account-based programs.
OptumHealth seeks to simplify the consumer health care experience and facilitate the efficient and effective delivery of care. Its capabilities can be deployed individually or integrated to provide a comprehensive solution oriented around a broad
base of consumer needs within the health care system.

OptumHealth’s simple, modular service designs can be easily integrated to meet
varying employer, payer, public sector and consumer needs at a wide range of price points. OptumHealth offers its products on an administrative fee basis where it manages and administers benefit claims for self-insured customers in exchange for a
fixed fee per individual served, and on a risk basis, where OptumHealth assumes responsibility for health care costs in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per individual served. For its financial services offerings, OptumHealth charges fees and
earns investment income on managed funds.

OptumHealth sells its products through three markets: employer (which includes the sub-markets of
large, mid and small employers), payer (which includes the sub-markets of health plans, third party administrators, underwriter/stop-loss carriers and individual market intermediaries) and public sector (which includes Medicaid, Medicare and Federal
procurement).

OptumHealth is one brand, organized into four major operating groups: OptumHealth Care Solutions; OptumHealth Financial
Services; OptumHealth Behavioral Solutions; and OptumHealth Specialty Benefits, whose results of operations will be reflected in UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual in 2011.

Care Solutions.Care Solutions serves more than 39 million individuals through personalized health management that improves people’s health and well-being, improves clinical
outcomes and workforce productivity and







reduces health care costs. Programs include wellness and prevention, disease management, case management, physical health programs, complex condition management, specialized provider networks,
personalized health portals and consumer marketing services.

Care Solutions also provides benefit administration and clinical and network
management for chiropractic, physical therapy, occupational therapy and other complementary and alternative care services through its national network consisting of 26,000 chiropractors, 16,000 physical and occupational therapists and 9,000
complementary and alternative health professionals.

Financial Services.Financial Services provides health-based financial
services for consumers, employers, payers and health care professionals. Financial Services is comprised of OptumHealth Bank, which is a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), a TPA and a transaction processing service for the
health care industry. Financial Services’ account-based offerings include HSA, HRA, and Flexible Spending Accounts in addition to other reimbursement accounts products. As of December 31, 2010 Financial Services had $1.1 billion in
customer assets under management. Additionally, Financial Services provides electronic payments and statements services for health care professionals and payers. In 2010, Financial Services processed $43.5 billion in medical payments to
physicians and other health care providers.

Behavioral Solutions.Behavioral Solutions serves approximately 50 million
individuals with its employee assistance programs, work/life offerings, and clinically driven behavioral health, substance abuse and psychiatric disability management programs. Its consumer-focused programs incorporate state-of-the-art predictive
modeling, outcomes management and evidence-based best practices, which result in better care and a reduction in overall health care costs. Behavioral Solutions customers have access to a national network of 91,000 clinicians and counselors and 3,100
facilities in 6,300 locations nationwide.

Specialty Benefits.Specialty Benefits includes dental, vision, life, critical
illness, disability and stop-loss product offerings delivered through an integrated platform that enhances efficiency and effectiveness. Specialty Benefits covers nearly 23 million individuals and includes a network of more than 33,000 vision
professionals in private and retail settings, and more than 154,000 dental providers. Stop-loss insurance is marketed throughout the United States through a network of TPAs, brokers and consultants. In 2011, these specialty benefits will be
reflected in UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual’s results of operations.

Ingenix

Ingenix offers database and data management services, software products, publications, consulting and actuarial services, business process outsourcing
services and pharmaceutical data consulting and research services in conjunction with the development of pharmaceutical products on a nationwide and international basis. As of December 31, 2010, Ingenix’s customer base included 6,200
hospital facilities, 246,000 health care professionals or groups, 2,000 payers and intermediaries, 205Fortune 500companies, 2,200 life sciences companies, 270 government entities, and 150 United Kingdom Government Payers, as well as other
UnitedHealth Group businesses.

Ingenix offers information and technology to simplify health care administration. Ingenix helps customers
accurately and efficiently manage the information flowing through the health care system. Ingenix uses data to help advance transparency on cost and quality and help customers streamline their processes to make health care more efficient. Ingenix is
a leader in contract research services, and pharmacoeconomics, epidemiology and safety and outcomes (including comparative effectiveness) research through its i3 businesses.

Ingenix’s products and services are sold primarily through a direct sales force focused on specific customers and market segments across the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, employer, government,
hospital, physician, payer and property and casualty insurance market segments. Ingenix’s products are also supported and distributed through an array of alliance and business partnerships with other technology vendors, who integrate and
interface its products with their applications.







Many of Ingenix’s contract research services, consulting arrangements and software and related
information services are performed over an extended period, often several years. Ingenix maintains an order backlog to track unearned revenues under these long-term arrangements. The backlog consists of estimated revenue from signed contracts, other
legally binding agreements and anticipated contract renewals based on historical experience that either have not started but are anticipated to begin in the near future, or are in process and have not been completed. Ingenix’s aggregate backlog
at December 31, 2010 was $2.8 billion, of which $2.0 billion is expected to be realized within the next 12 months. This includes $0.8 billion related to intersegment agreements all of which are included in the current portion. Backlog
amounts do not include approximately $500 million for the portion of the i3 business that is being divested, which is discussed below. Ingenix cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to realize all of the revenues included in backlog due
to uncertainty regarding the timing and scope of services and the potential for cancellation or early termination of service arrangements.

The Ingenix companies are divided into two groups: Information Services and i3.

Information Services.

Information Services provides other services, such as medical necessity compliance services, verification of physician credentials, health care
professional directories, Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set (HEDIS) reporting, and fraud and abuse detection and prevention services. Information Services also offers consulting services, including actuarial and financial advisory
work through its Ingenix Consulting division and health care policy research, implementation, strategy and management consulting through its subsidiary, The Lewin Group, as well as product development, health care professional contracting and
medical policy management.

i3.i3 uses comprehensive, science-based evaluation and analysis and benchmarking services to
support pharmaceutical and biotechnology development. i3 provides services on a nationwide and international basis, helping customers effectively and efficiently get drug data to appropriate regulatory bodies and to improve health outcomes through
integrated information, analysis and technology. i3’s capabilities and efforts focus on the entire range of product assessment, through commercialization of life-cycle management services – pipeline assessment, market access and product
positioning, clinical trials, economic, epidemiology and safety and outcomes (including comparative effectiveness) research. i3’s global contract research services include regulatory assistance, project management, data management,
biostatistical analysis, quality assurance, medical writing and staffing resource services. i3’s contract research services are therapeutically focused on oncology, the central nervous system, respiratory, infectious and pulmonary diseases and
endocrinology.

In January 2011, we announced that as part of focusing on its distinct life sciences competencies, Ingenix is exiting certain
portions of the clinical trial support business and intends to sell these businesses. The businesses to be sold include those that mainly provide services in connection with the clinical trials that help pharmaceutical companies get a compound
approved by the U. S. Food and Drug Administration and other







applicable drug regulatory agencies outside of the United States. The services provided include monitoring, project management, data management and clinical staffing services. These services are
generally performed in connection with Phase I, Phase II and Phase III clinical trials.

The remaining portion of i3 will be organized into a
new Life Sciences division that will focus Ingenix’s capabilities in assisting life sciences clients to identify, analyze and measure the value of their products that have received regulatory approval. The products and services provided by the
Life Sciences division include health economics outcomes and late phase research, market access and reimbursement informatics products and services, epidemiology and certain drug safety services, products and services relating to patient reported
outcomes and regulatory consulting services.

Prescription Solutions

Prescription Solutions provides a comprehensive suite of integrated pharmacy benefit management (PBM) services to more than 12 million people nationwide through its network of more than 66,000 retail
pharmacies and two mail service facilities, processing nearly 350 million adjusted retail, mail service and specialty drug prescriptions annually. Prescription Solutions is dedicated to helping its customers achieve a low-cost, high-quality
pharmacy benefit. Prescription Solutions does this by working closely with customers to create customized solutions that are designed to improve quality and safety, increase compliance and adherence, and reduce fraud and waste.

Prescription Solutions’ integrated PBM services include retail network pharmacy contracting and management, claims processing, mail order
pharmacy services, specialty pharmacy services, benefit design consultation, rebate contracting and management, drug utilization review, formulary management programs, disease therapy management and adherence programs. The mail order and
specialty pharmacy fulfillment capabilities of Prescription Solutions are an important strategic component in serving employers, commercial health plans, Medicaid plans and Medicare-contracted businesses, including Part D prescription drug plans. In
addition to PBM services, Prescription Solutions’ Consumer Health Products division delivers diabetic testing and other specialized medical supplies, over the counter items, vitamins and supplements directly to members’ homes.

Prescription Solutions provides PBM services to customers in our Health Benefits segment, as well as external employer groups, union trusts,
managed care organizations, Medicare-contracted plans, Medicaid plans and TPAs, including mail service only, rebate services only and pharmacy carve-out accounts. Prescription Solutions’ distribution system consists primarily of health
insurance brokers and other health care consultants or direct sales.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Most of our health and well-being services are regulated by federal and state regulatory agencies that generally have discretion to issue regulations and
interpret and enforce laws and rules. These regulations can vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and the interpretation of existing laws and rules also may change periodically. In the first quarter of 2010, the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act and a reconciliation measure, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which we refer to together as the Health Reform Legislation, were signed into law. The Health Reform Legislation, portions of which are
summarized below, alters the regulatory environment in which we operate, in some cases to a significant degree. Federal and state governments continue to enact and consider various legislative and regulatory proposals that could materially impact
certain aspects of the health care system. New laws, regulations and rules, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations and rules, could negatively affect our business.

We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable laws, regulations and rules. In the event we fail to comply with, or we fail to respond quickly and appropriately to changes in,
applicable laws, regulations







and rules, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to
compliance with federal and state laws and regulations.

Health Care Reforms

The Health Reform Legislation expands access to coverage and modifies aspects of the commercial insurance market, as well as the Medicaid and Medicare programs, CHIP and other aspects of the health care
system. Certain provisions of the Health Reform Legislation have already taken effect, and other provisions become effective at various dates over the next several years. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the Department of Labor
(DOL) and the Treasury Department have issued regulations (or proposed regulations) on a number of aspects of Health Reform Legislation, but we await final rules and interim guidance on other key aspects of the legislation.

Certain aspects of the Health Reform Legislation are also being challenged in federal court, with the proponents of such challenges seeking to limit the
scope of or have all or portions of the Health Reform Legislation declared unconstitutional. For example, on January 31, 2011, in a case brought on behalf of 26 state attorneys general and/or governors and certain other parties, the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Florida ruled that the provision in the Health Reform Legislation that requires individuals to purchase health insurance (or be subject to penalties), along with the entire legislation, is
unconstitutional. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia has held that the individual mandate and certain related provisions are unconstitutional, but without declaring the entire legislation unconstitutional. In
contrast, federal district court judges in Virginia and Michigan have upheld the constitutionality of the individual mandate and the Health Reform Legislation. There are other cases challenging aspects of the Health Reform Legislation that remain
pending and have not yet been decided. Judicial proceedings are subject to appeal and could last for an extended period of time, and we cannot predict the results of any of these proceedings. Congress may also withhold the funding necessary to
implement the Health Reform Legislation, or may attempt to replace the legislation with amended provisions or repeal it altogether.

The
following outlines certain provisions of the Health Reform Legislation that have taken or will take effect in the coming years, assuming the legislation is implemented in its current form.

Effective 2010: The Health Reform Legislation mandated the expansion of dependent coverage to include adult children until
age 26; eliminated certain annual and lifetime caps on the dollar value of certain essential health benefits; eliminated pre-existing condition limits for enrollees under 19; prohibited certain policy rescissions; prohibited plans and issuers from
charging higher cost sharing (copayments or coinsurance) for emergency services that are obtained out of a plan’s network; and included a requirement to provide coverage for preventive services without cost to members (for non-grandfathered
plans).

The Health Reform Legislation also mandated certain changes to coverage determination and appeals processes, including
expanding the definition of “adverse benefit determination” to include rescissions; extending external review rights of adverse benefit determinations to insured and self-funded plans; requiring urgent care coverage determinations to be
made and communicated within 24 hours; and improving the clarity of and expanding the types of information in adverse benefit determination notices.

Effective 2011: Beginning in 2011, commercial fully insured health plans in the large employer group, small employer group and individual markets with medical loss ratios below certain
targets (85% for large employer groups, 80% for small employer groups and 80% for individuals, calculated under the definitions in the Health Reform Legislation and regulations) will be required to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their
customers annually. Rebate payments, if any, for 2011 would be made in mid 2012. A state can request a waiver of the individual market medical loss ratio for up to three years if the state petitions and provides to HHS certain supporting data, and
HHS determines that the requirement is disruptive to the market in that state. In addition, effective in 2011, the Health Reform Legislation mandates consumer discounts of 50% on brand name prescription drugs and 7% on generic prescription drugs for
Part D plan participants in the coverage gap.







In addition, the Health Reform Legislation required HHS to maintain an annual review process
of “unreasonable” increases in premiums for commercial health plans. HHS recently issued a proposed regulation that defines a review threshold of annual premium rate increases generally at or above 10% for rate increases filed or effective
July 1, 2011 or later. The proposed rule also clarifies that HHS review will not supersede existing state review and approval processes. The proposed regulation further requires health plans to provide to the states and HHS extensive
information supporting any premium rate increase of 10% or more, regardless of whether such increase ultimately is or is not deemed “unreasonable.” This information is expected to be made public by the states and/or HHS.

Effective 2011/2012: As part of the Health Reform Legislation, Medicare Advantage payment rates for 2011 were frozen at 2010
levels. Separately, CMS implemented a reduction in Medicare Advantage reimbursements of 1.6% for 2011. Beginning in 2012, additional cuts to Medicare Advantage plans will take effect (plans will ultimately receive 95% of Medicare fee-for-service
rates in high cost areas to 115% in low cost areas), with changes being phased-in over two to six years, depending on the level of payment reduction in a county. In addition to other measures, quality bonuses may partially offset these anticipated
rate reductions as CMS quality rating bonuses are phased in over three years beginning in 2012.

Effective 2013:
Effective beginning in 2013 with respect to services performed after 2009, the Health Reform Legislation limits the deductibility of executive compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code for insurance providers if at least
25% of the insurance provider’s gross premium income from health business is derived from health insurance plans that meet the minimum creditable coverage requirements.

Effective 2013/2014: The Health Reform Legislation provides for an increase in Medicaid fee-for-service and managed care program reimbursements for primary care services provided by primary
care doctors (family medicine, general internal medicine or pediatric medicine) to 100% of the Medicare payment rates for 2013 and 2014, and provides 100% federal financing for the difference in rates based on rates applicable on July 1, 2009.

Effective 2014: Effective starting in 2014, a number of the provisions of the Health Reform Legislation are
scheduled to take effect, including the following: an annual insurance industry assessment ($8 billion levied on the insurance industry in 2014 with increasing annual amounts thereafter), which is not deductible for income tax purposes; expansion of
Medicaid eligibility for all individuals and families with incomes up to 133% of the federal poverty level (states can early adopt the expansion without increased federal funding prior to 2014); states receive full federal matching in 2014 through
2016; all individual and group health plans must offer coverage on a guaranteed issue and guaranteed renewal basis during annual open enrollment and special enrollment periods and cannot apply pre-existing condition exclusions or health status
rating adjustments; elimination of annual limits on essential benefits coverage on certain plans; establishment of state-based exchanges for individuals and small employers (with up to 100 employees) as well as certain CHIP eligibles; introduction
of plan designs based on set actuarial values to increase comparability of competing products on the exchanges; and establishment of minimum medical loss ratio of 85% for Medicare Advantage plans.

The Health Reform Legislation and the related federal and state regulations will impact how we do business and could restrict revenue and enrollment
growth in certain products and market segments, restrict premium growth rates for certain products and market segments, increase our medical and administrative costs, expose us to an increased risk of liability (including increasing our liability in
federal and state courts for coverage determinations and contract interpretation) or put us at risk for loss of business. In addition, our results of operations, financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill, and
cash flows could be materially adversely affected by such changes. The Health Reform Legislation may create new or expand existing opportunities for business growth, but due to its complexity, the impact of the Health Reform Legislation remains
difficult to predict and is not yet fully known. See also Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to the Health Reform Legislation and related matters.







Other Federal Laws and Regulation

We are subject to various levels of federal regulation. CMS regulates our UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and UnitedHealthcare Community & State Medicare and Medicaid businesses,
as well as certain aspects of our OptumHealth business. CMS has the right to audit performance to determine compliance with CMS contracts and regulations and the quality of care given to Medicare beneficiaries. See Note 13 of Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for a discussion of audits of our risk adjustment data for several of our plans.

Our
Health Benefits reporting segment, through UnitedHealthcare Community & State, also has Medicaid and CHIP contracts that are subject to federal regulations regarding services to be provided to Medicaid enrollees, payment for those services
and other aspects of these programs. There are many regulations surrounding Medicare and Medicaid compliance, and the regulatory environment with respect to these programs has become and will continue to become increasingly complex as a result of
the Health Reform Legislation. When we contract with the federal government, we are subject to federal laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. In addition, certain of Ingenix’s
businesses, such as its high acuity software products and clinical research activities, are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and the clinical research activities are also subject to laws and regulations outside of the
United States that regulate clinical trials. Laws and regulations relating to consumer protection, anti-fraud and abuse, anti-kickbacks, false claims, prohibited referrals, inappropriately reducing or limiting health care services, anti-money
laundering, securities and antitrust also affect us.

HIPAA, GLBA and Other Privacy and Security Regulation.The administrative
simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (HIPAA), apply to both the group and individual health insurance markets, including self-funded employee benefit plans. HIPAA requires
guaranteed health care coverage for small employers and certain eligible individuals. It also requires guaranteed renewability for employers and individuals and limits exclusions based on pre-existing conditions. Federal regulations related to HIPAA
include minimum standards for electronic transactions and code sets, and for the privacy and security of protected health information. The HIPAA privacy regulations do not preempt more stringent state laws and regulations that may also apply to us.

ERISA.The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), regulates how goods and services
are provided to or through certain types of employer-sponsored health benefit plans. ERISA is a set of







laws and regulations that is subject to periodic interpretation by the DOL as well as the federal courts. ERISA places controls on how our business units may do business with employers who
sponsor employee benefit health plans, particularly those that maintain self-funded plans. Regulations established by the DOL provide additional rules for claims payment and member appeals under health care plans governed by ERISA. Additionally,
some states require licensure or registration of companies providing third-party claims administration services for health care plans.

FDIC.The FDIC has federal regulatory authority over OptumHealth Bank and performs annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating
in accordance with federal safety and soundness requirements. In addition to such annual examinations, the FDIC performs periodic examinations of the bank’s compliance with applicable federal banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines.
In the event of unfavorable examination results, the bank could be subject to increased operational expenses and capital requirements, governmental oversight and monetary penalties.

Financial Reform.Our business may be impacted by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which became law on July 21, 2010. The act reshapes and restructures the
supervision and regulation of the financial services industry. The act calls for extensive rulemaking, including debit card interchange fees restrictions, and network exclusivity and routing requirements. Depending on rulemaking and implementation
activities, the act could subject us to additional regulation, increase operational costs and reduce revenue. The full impact of the law and future regulations on our results of operations and business strategy may not be known for some time.

State Laws and Regulation

Health Care Regulation.Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. All of the
states in which our subsidiaries offer insurance and HMO products regulate those products and operations. These states require periodic financial reports and establish minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. With the amendment of
the Annual Financial Reporting Model Regulation by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) to adopt elements substantially similar to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we expect that these states will continue to expand the scope of
regulations relating to corporate governance and internal control activities of HMOs and insurance companies. In addition, the states were very active in 2010 and passed various laws to implement, limit and, in the majority of instances, expand the
entitlements set forth in the federal Health Reform Legislation. We expect the states to continue to introduce and pass similar laws in 2011, and this will affect our operations and our financial results.

Health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations. Such regulations generally require
registration with applicable state departments of insurance and the filing of reports that describe capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. Some state insurance holding
company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval of acquisitions and material intercompany transfers of assets, as well as transactions between the regulated companies and their parent holding companies or affiliates. These laws may
restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding companies.

In addition, some of our business and related
activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including PPO, managed care organization (MCO), utilization review (UR) or third-party administrator-related regulations and licensure requirements. These
regulations differ from state to state, and may contain network, contracting, product and rate, and financial and reporting requirements. There are laws and regulations that set specific standards for delivery of services, payment of claims,
adequacy of health care professional networks, fraud prevention, protection of consumer health information, pricing and underwriting practices and covered benefits and services. State health care anti-fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide
range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing unnecessary medical services and improper marketing. Our UnitedHealthcare Community & State and UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement







Medicaid businesses are subject to regulation by state Medicaid agencies that oversee the provision of benefits by UnitedHealthcare Community & State to its Medicaid and CHIP
beneficiaries and by UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement to its dually-eligible Medicaid beneficiaries. We also contract with state governmental entities and are subject to state laws and regulations relating to the award, administration
and performance of state government contracts.

Guaranty Fund Assessments.Under state guaranty fund laws, certain
insurance companies (and HMOs in some states), including those issuing health (which includes long-term care), life and accident insurance policies, doing business in those states can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to
the policyholders and claimants of insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or lines of business. Assessments generally are based on a formula relating to premiums in the state compared to the premiums of other insurers and could be
spread out over a period of years. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. See Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of a matter involving Penn
Treaty Network American Insurance Company and its subsidiary (Penn Treaty), which have been placed in rehabilitation.

Pharmacy
Regulation.Prescription Solutions’ mail order pharmacies must be licensed to do business as pharmacies in the states in which they are located. Our mail order pharmacies must also register with the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration and individual state controlled substance authorities to dispense controlled substances. In many of the states where our mail order pharmacies deliver pharmaceuticals there are laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail order
pharmacies to register with that state’s board of pharmacy or similar regulatory body. These states generally permit the pharmacy to follow the laws of the state in which the mail order pharmacy is located, although some states require that we
also comply with certain laws in that state. Our mail order pharmacies maintain certain Medicare and state Medicaid provider numbers as pharmacies providing services under these programs. Participation in these programs requires the pharmacies to
comply with the applicable Medicare and Medicaid provider rules and regulations. Other laws and regulations affecting our mail order pharmacies include federal and state statutes and regulations govern the labeling, packaging, advertising and
adulteration of prescription drugs and dispensing of controlled substances. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to our PBM businesses.

Privacy and Security Laws.States have adopted regulations to implement provisions of the GLBA. Like HIPAA, GLBA allows states to adopt more stringent requirements governing privacy
protection. A number of states have also adopted other laws and regulations that may affect our privacy and security practices, for example, state laws that govern the use, disclosure and protection of social security numbers and sensitive health
information. State and local authorities increasingly focus on the importance of protecting individuals from identity theft, with a significant number of states enacting laws requiring businesses to notify individuals of security breaches involving
personal information. State consumer protection laws may also apply to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. Additionally, different approaches
to state privacy and insurance regulation and varying enforcement philosophies in the different states may adversely affect our ability to standardize our products and services across state lines. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a
discussion of the risks related to compliance with state privacy-related regulations.

UDFI.The Utah State Department of
Financial Institutions (UDFI) has state regulatory and supervisory authority over OptumHealth Bank and in conjunction with federal regulators performs annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with state safety and
soundness requirements. In addition to such annual examinations, the UDFI in conjunction with federal regulators performs periodic examinations of the bank’s compliance with applicable state banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines.
In the event of unfavorable examination results, the bank could be subjected to increased operational expenses and capital requirements, governmental oversight and monetary penalties.







Corporate Practice of Medicine and Fee-Splitting Laws.Certain businesses within OptumHealth
are subject to laws and regulations that may differ from those that apply to our businesses of providing managed care and health insurance products. Some states have corporate practice of medicine laws that prohibit certain entities from practicing
medicine, employing physicians to practice medicine or exercising control over medical decisions by physicians. Additionally, some states prohibit certain entities from sharing in the fees or revenues of a professional practice (fee-splitting).
These prohibitions may be statutory or regulatory, or may be a matter of judicial or regulatory interpretation. These laws, regulations and interpretations have, in certain states, been subject to limited judicial and regulatory interpretation and
are subject to change.

Audits and Investigations

We have been and are currently involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance
and health and welfare departments, state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General, the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, U.S. Congressional committees, the U.S. Department of Justice, U.S. Attorneys, the SEC,
the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. DOL, the FDIC and other governmental authorities. Such government actions can result in assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including loss of licensure or exclusion
from participation in government programs. See Note 13 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details. In addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation, audit results or sanctions could negatively affect our reputation in various
markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services and retain our current business.

International Regulation

Some of our business units have international operations. These international operations are subject to different legal and regulatory
requirements in different jurisdictions, including various tax, tariff and trade regulations, as well as employment, intellectual property, privacy and investment rules and laws. These international operations are also subject to United States laws
that regulate activities of U.S.-based businesses abroad.

COMPETITION







EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 87,000 individuals. We believe our employee relations are generally positive.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following sets forth certain information
regarding our executive officers as of February 10, 2011, including the business experience of each executive officer during the past five years:



NameAgePositionStephen J. Hemsley58President and Chief Executive OfficerDavid S. Wichmann48Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealth Group OperationsGail K. Boudreaux50Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcareGeorge L. Mikan III39Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Health ServicesWilliam A. Munsell58Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth GroupEric S. Rangen54Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting OfficerLarry C. Renfro57Executive Vice PresidentLori K. Sweere52Executive Vice President of Human CapitalReed V. Tuckson, M.D.59Executive Vice President and Chief of Medical AffairsChristopher J. Walsh45Executive Vice President, General Counsel andAssistant SecretaryAnthony Welters55Executive Vice PresidentMitchell E. Zamoff43Executive Vice President, General Counsel andAssistant Secretary

Our Board of Directors elects
executive officers annually. Our executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified.

Mr. Hemsleyis
President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group, has served in that capacity since November 2006, and has been a member of the Board of Directors since February 2000. Mr. Hemsley served as President and Chief Operating Officer from
January 2006 to November 2006.

Mr. Wichmannis Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group and
President of UnitedHealth Group Operations and has served in that capacity since January 2011. Mr. Wichmann has served as Executive Vice President and President of UnitedHealth Group Operations since April 2008. From December 2006 to April
2008, Mr. Wichmann served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Commercial Markets Group (now UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual). From January 2006 to December 2006, Mr. Wichmann served as
President and Chief Operating Officer of UnitedHealthcare.

Ms. Boudreauxis Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and
Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcare and has served in that capacity since January 2011. Ms. Boudreaux has overall responsibility for all UnitedHealthcare health benefits businesses. Ms. Boudreaux served as Executive Vice President
of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealthcare from May 2008 to January 2011. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Boudreaux served as Executive Vice President of Health Care Services Corporation (HCSC) from January 2006 to May
2008.

Mr. Mikanis Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Health Services and has served
in that capacity since January 2011. Mr. Mikan is responsible for oversight of UnitedHealth Group’s health services platform. Mr. Mikan served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from November 2006 to January 2011
and Senior Vice President of Finance of UnitedHealth Group from February 2006 to November 2006. From January 2006 to February 2006, Mr. Mikan served as Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealthcare and as President of UnitedHealth Networks.







Mr. Munsellis Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity
since January 2011. Mr. Munsell focuses on enterprise-wide initiatives, including emerging growth and expansion opportunities; public, regulatory and governmental affairs and representation; reputation and market image efforts, and external
relationships and alliances for the enterprise. Mr. Munsell served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Enterprise Services Group from September 2007 to January 2011. From December 2006 to August 2007,
Mr. Munsell served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group. From January 2006 to December 2006, Mr. Munsell served as Chief Executive Officer of Specialized Care Services (now OptumHealth).

Mr. Rangenis Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since December 2006.
From November 2006 to December 2006, Mr. Rangen was Senior Vice President of UnitedHealth Group. Mr. Rangen joined UnitedHealth Group in November 2006. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Rangen served as Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of Alliant Techsystems Inc. from January 2006 to March 2006.

Mr. Renfrois Executive Vice President
of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2011. Mr. Renfro focuses on enterprise-wide initiatives, including emerging growth and expansion opportunities; public, regulatory and governmental affairs and representation;
reputation and market image efforts, and external relationships and alliances for the enterprise. Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of the Public and Senior Markets Group from
October 2009 to January 2011. From January 2009 to October 2009, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Ovations. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Renfro served as
President of Fidelity Developing Businesses at Fidelity Investments and as a member of the Fidelity Executive Committee from June 2008 to January 2009. From January 2006 to May 2008, Mr. Renfro held several senior positions at AARP Services
Inc., including President and Chief Executive Officer of AARP Services Inc., Chief Operating Officer of AARP Services Inc., President and Chief Executive Officer of AARP Financial and President of the AARP Funds.

Ms. Sweereis Executive Vice President of Human Capital of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since June 2007. Prior to
joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Sweere served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources of CNA Financial Corporation from January 2006 to May 2007.

Dr. Tucksonis Executive Vice President and Chief of Medical Affairs of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since December 2006. Dr. Tuckson served as Senior Vice
President, Consumer Health and Medical Care Advancement from January 2006 to December 2006.

Mr. Walshis Executive Vice
President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since October 2009. From August 2007 to October 2009, Mr. Walsh served as Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of UnitedHealth
Group, and from January 2009 to October 2009, Mr. Walsh served also as interim Co-Chief Legal Officer of UnitedHealth Group. Mr. Walsh joined UnitedHealth Group in August 2007. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Walsh was a
partner at Hogan and Hartson from January 2006 to August 2007.

Mr. Weltersis Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and
has served in that capacity since January 2011. Mr. Welters focuses on enterprise-wide initiatives, including emerging growth and expansion opportunities; public, regulatory and governmental affairs and representation; reputation and market
image efforts, and external relationships and alliances for the enterprise. Mr. Welters served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Public and Senior Market Group from September 2007 to January 2011.
Mr. Welters was named Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group in November 2006. From January 2006 to November 2006, Mr. Welters was President and Chief Executive Officer of AmeriChoice.

Mr. Zamoffis Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since
October 2009. From March 2008 to October 2009, Mr. Zamoff served as General







Counsel of UnitedHealthcare, and from January 2009 to October 2009, Mr. Zamoff served also as interim Co-Chief Legal Officer of UnitedHealth Group. Mr. Zamoff joined UnitedHealth Group
in March 2008. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Zamoff was a partner at Hogan and Hartson from January 2006 to March 2008.



