ITEM 1. BUSINESS



Forward-Looking
Statements







All references
to “NVIDIA,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company” mean NVIDIA Corporation and its
subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent
company.



NVIDIA, GeForce, SLI, Hybrid SLI,
GoForce, Quadro, NVIDIA Quadro, NVIDIA nForce, Tesla, Tegra, CUDA,
NVIDIA APX, PhysX, Ageia, Mental Images, and the NVIDIA logo are our trademarks
and/or registered trademarks in the United States and other countries that are
used in this document. We may also refer to trademarks of other corporations and
organizations in this document.



Our
Company



NVIDIA Corporation helped awaken the
world to the power of computer graphics when it invented the graphics processor
unit, or GPU, in 1999.  Expertise in programmable GPUs has led to
breakthroughs in parallel processing which make supercomputing inexpensive and
widely accessible.  We serve the entertainment and consumer market
with our GeForce graphics products, the professional design and visualization
market with our Quadro graphics products, the high-performance computing market
with our Tesla computing solutions products, and the mobile computing market
with our Tegra system-on-a-chip products. During the last several fiscal years,
we have operated and reported four major product-line operating segments: the
GPU business, the professional solutions business, or PSB, the media and
communications processor, or MCP, business, and the consumer products business,
or CPB. However, effective with the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, we will
no longer separate our MCP and GPU operating segments as such segmentation will
no longer be reflective of the way we manage those businesses.



Our GPU business is comprised primarily
of our GeForce products that support desktop and notebook personal computers, or
PCs, plus memory products. Our PSB is comprised of our Quadro professional
workstation products and other professional graphics products, including our
NVIDIA Tesla high-performance computing products. Our MCP business, as we have
reported it through fiscal year 2010, has been comprised primarily of our ION
motherboard GPUs, or mGPU products. Our CPB is comprised of our Tegra mobile
products that support tablets and smartbooks, smartphones, personal media
players, or PMPs, internet television, automotive navigation, and other similar
devices. CPB also includes license, royalty, other revenue and associated costs
related to video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics
devices.  Original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, original design
manufacturers, or ODMs, add-in-card manufacturers, system builders and consumer
electronics companies worldwide utilize our processors as a core component of
their entertainment, business and professional solutions.



We were incorporated in California in
April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. Our headquarter
facilities are in Santa Clara, California. Our Internet address iswww.nvidia.com. The
contents of our website are not a part of this Form 10-K.



GPU Business



Our GPU business is comprised
primarily of our GeForce products that support desktop and notebook PCs, plus
memory products. Our GPU business is focused on Microsoft Windows and Apple PC
platforms.  GeForce GPUs power PCs made by or distributed by most PC
OEMs in the world for desktop PCs, notebook PCs, and PCs loaded with
Windows Media Center and other media extenders such as the Apple
TV.  GPUs enhance the user experience for playing video games, editing
photos, viewing and editing videos and high-definition, or HD,
movies.



We believe we are in an era
where visual computing is becoming increasingly important to consumers and other
end users of our products. Our strategy is to promote our GeForce brand as
one of the most important processors through technology leadership, increasing
programmability, and great content experience.  In fiscal year 2010,
our strategy was to extend our architectural and technology advantage with our
GeForce GPUs.



During fiscal year
2010, we introduced our next generation CUDA GPU architecture, codenamed
“Fermi”.  We expect the Fermi architecture to be the foundation for
computational GPUs, and to enable breakthroughs in both graphics and parallel
computing. We also launched a development environment for massively parallel
computing. Using this tool, which is named NVIDIA Parallel Nsight, and is
integrated into Microsoft Visual Studio we expect that developers will be able
to use Microsoft Visual Studio and C++ to write applications that leverage
Fermi's GPU architecture. It is also designed to accelerate performance on a
wider array of applications including ray tracing, physics simulation, finite
element analysis, high-precision scientific computing, sparse linear algebra,
sorting, and search algorithms.



During
fiscal year 2010, we also delivered our first 40nm GPUs to customers. Because of
limited 40nm wafer foundry capacity, in addition to supplier challenges related
to 40nm process manufacturing yields, we were forced to allocate our available
40nm product supply among our customers.






In
addition, we launched Optimus™ technology, a combination of software and
hardware innovations for notebooks, which turns on and off the GPU based on
application needs without any user intervention thus providing the advanced
performance of discrete graphics while at the same time still delivering
prolonged battery life.  Our OEM customers have currently announced
the availability of eight notebook models with 50 systems to be scheduled for
availability by summer 2010.  We believe Optimus has the potential to
expand the overall market share for discrete GPUs by increasing the GPU attach
rate in the notebook segment.



Professional Solutions
Business



Our PSB is comprised
of our Quadro professional workstation products and other professional graphics
products, including our Tesla high-performance computing products. Our Quadro
brand products are designed to deliver the highest possible level of graphics
performance and application compatibility for the professional
industry.  Quadro products are recognized by many as the standard for
professional graphics solutions needed to solve many of the world’s most complex
visual computing challenges in the manufacturing, entertainment, medical,
science, and aerospace industries. Quadro products are fully certified by
several software developers for professional workstation applications and are
designed to deliver the graphics performance and precision required by
professional applications.



We
believe that recent years have experienced an increasing level of global
adoption of the computer-aided design approach of product
creation.  We have achieved a leading position in the professional
graphics category by providing innovative GPU technology, software, and tools
that integrate the capabilities of our GPU with a broad array of visualization
products.



During
fiscal year 2010, we launched RealityServer, a combination of GPU hardware and
software with the ability to stream interactive, photorealistic 3D applications
to any web- connected PC, laptop, netbook or smart phone. We also launched
during the year two significant enhancements to our Quadro product
line-up:  Quadro Plex SVS, a scalable visual computing platform for
professionals who interact with 3D models and analyze large volumes of data, and
the OptiX ray tracing engine, part of a suite of application acceleration
engines for software developers.  This suite also includes engines for
managing 3D data and scenes, scaling performance across multiple GPUs and
real-time modeling of hyper-realistic physical and environmental
effects.



In the
area of high performance computing, we also announced during fiscal year 2010
that AMBER, one of the popular molecular dynamics codes used by researchers in
academia and pharmaceutical companies to research new drugs, had been
accelerated by our CUDA architecture for massively parallel
processing.  AMBER, accelerated by CUDA,  now runs up to 50
times faster on a GPU than on a central processing unit, or CPU.



Hewlett –
Packard Company and Super Micro Computer, Inc. began carrying our Tesla
computing solution products during fiscal year 2010, joining a global list of
OEMs, including Cray Inc., Dell Inc., Hewlett-Packard Lenovo, Silicon Graphics
International and Sun Microsystems.   We recently collaborated with a
leading Chinese geophysical services provider to unveil the launch of a new
Tesla-based hardware and seismic software suite that accelerates the performance
of complex seismic data computation for oil and gas companies in China. We also
collaborated with the investment banking division of a leading European
financial institution to replace their CPU cores with a smaller cluster
consisting of CPU servers and two Tesla GPU-based S1070 systems, which require
significantly less power.  Factoring the acceleration in processing
times achieved using Tesla GPUs, the division is using almost 200 times less
electricity than before.



With CUDA, we are able to
speed up general purpose compute-intensive applications like we do for 3D
graphics processing.  Five new consumer applications were launched
that are accelerated by the CUDA architecture on our GPUs – Super LoiloScope
Mars, for video editing, ArcSoft SimHD, for DVD image enhancement, Nero Move It
and Cyberlink MediaShow Espresso, for video format conversion, and Motion DSP
vReveal, for real-time video quality enhancement.  Developers are able
to speed-up algorithms in areas ranging from nano molecular dynamics to image
processing, medical image reconstruction and derivatives modeling for financial
risk analysis.  Over 300 universities around the world now teach
parallel programming with CUDA and many PC OEMs now offer high performance
computing solutions with Tesla for use by customers around the world, including
Motorola Inc., Chevron Corporation, General Electric Health Care and General
Mills Inc.. Researchers use CUDA to accelerate their time-to-discovery, and
popular off-the-shelf software packages are now CUDA accelerated.



MCP Business



Our MCP business, as
we have reported it through fiscal year 2010, is comprised primarily of our ION
mGPU products.   Our ION family of products addresses the integrated
core logic market.  Core logic is the computer’s “central nervous
system,” controlling and directing high speed data between or CPU, the GPU,
storage, and networks.  High quality, long-term reliability, and top
performance are key customer demands of core logic suppliers.



Our ION mGPU
products are focused on transforming mainstream Intel PCs into a premium
experience typically found in higher priced laptops and desktops. Our strategy
is to combine the ION mGPU found in new desktop and notebook PCs with the Intel
Celeron, Core 2 Duo or Atom CPUs. These combinations create a platform that
enables a premium PC experience in a lower cost and smaller form factor, thus
enabling netbooks and all-in-one PCs to play rich media content and popular
games in  HD.



At Computex
2009, our ION platform was awarded the Best Choice award.  We
announced 21 ION-related design wins at Computex 2009, and have announced more
design wins since then. Additionally, along with Adobe Systems Incorporated, or
Adobe, we announced GPU acceleration for the Flash player, bringing Internet
video to a new class of low-power PCs and Internet devices.






During fiscal year 2010, we began redirecting our development strategy in
our MCP business in response to our on-going dispute with Intel Corporation. In
February 2009, Intel filed suit against us, related to a chipset license
agreement that we entered into with Intel in 2004. In March 2009, we asserted
counterclaims against Intel pursuant to which we seek an order declaring that
Intel breached the chipset license agreement as well as the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing underlying the license agreements, and seeking,
among other things, termination of Intel’s cross license to our technology.Notwithstanding our belief that the chipset license agreement extends to a
component of the new Intel processor architecture referred to as Direct Media
Interface, or DMI, we currently have no intention of building a DMI-based
chipset while this dispute remains unresolved. As a result, we began redirecting
our MCP development resources to other programs.Please refer to Note 13
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV,
Item 15 of this Form 10-K for further information regarding this
litigation



Consumer
Products Business



Our CPB is comprised of
our Tegra mobile products that support smartphones, smartbooks, tablets,
personal media players, or PMPs, internet television, automotive navigation, and
other similar devices. CPB also includes license, royalty, other revenue and
associated costs related to video game consoles and other digital consumer
electronics devices.



Our mobile strategy is to
create a system-on-a-chip that enables entertainment and web experiences that
end users currently enjoy on a PC. NVIDIA Tegra mobile products implement
design techniques, both inside the chips and at the system level, which result
in high performance and long battery life. These technologies enhance visual
display capabilities, improve connectivity, and minimize chip and system-level
power consumption.



During
fiscal year 2010, we demonstrated the Tegra 600 Series, our first generation
system-on-a-chip that enables an always-on, always-connected HD smartbook that
offers playback of advanced multimedia content such as 720p HD video, while at
the same time consuming minimal power and allowing users to go days between
battery charges. Also during fiscal year 2010, our Tegra product was included in
Microsoft’s Zune HD and the Samsung M1, both of which were being sold in the
marketplace.



During
the recent Consumer Electronics Show in January 2010, we announced our
next-generation of Tegra processing technology.  Tegra is the
processor for the mobile web, specifically designed for the high-resolution
needs of tablets.  Tegra combines browsing, streaming 1080p video and
Flash 10.1 acceleration with a 3D user interface and days of battery
life.   We have multiple next-generation Tegra design wins in
tablets, smartbooks and smartphones, with the first of these expected to ship
during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011.  Additionally, we have
announced that Volkswagen and Audi will use next-generation Tegra starting in
fiscal year 2012.In addition, we announced 3D Vision Surround for GeForce, a
high-definition 3D stereo solution for the home at the recent Consumer
Electronics Show in January 2010. 3D Vision is a combination of wireless
glasses, a high-power infrared emitter and software that transforms PC games
into full stereoscopic 3D experiences.   Over 420 games now
support NVIDIA 3D Vision.










Our
Strategy



We design our products to enable
our PC OEMs, ODMs, system builders, motherboard and add-in board manufacturers,
and cellular phone and consumer electronics OEMs to build products that deliver
state-of-the-art features, performance, compatibility and power efficiency while
maintaining competitive pricing and profitability. We believe that by developing
3D graphics, HD, and video and media communications solutions that provide
superior performance and address the key requirements of each of the product
categories we serve, we will accelerate the adoption of HD digital media
platforms and devices throughout these segments. We combine scalable
architectural technology with mass market economies-of-scale to deliver a
complete family of products that span from professional workstations, to
consumer PCs to tablets, smartbooks and smartphones.



Our objective is to be the leading
supplier of programmable, high-performance GPUs and ultra-low power mobile
system-on-a-chip products. Our current focus is on the desktop PC, professional
workstation, notebook PC, high-performance computing, and application processor
product lines, and we plan to expand into other product lines. Our strategy to
achieve this objective includes the following key elements:



Build
Award-Winning, Architecturally-Compatible 3D Graphics, HD Video, Media
Communications and Ultra-Low Power Product Families for the PC, Handheld and
Digital Entertainment Platforms.    Our strategy is
to achieve market segment leadership in these platforms by providing
award-winning performance at every price point. By developing 3D graphics, HD
video and media communications solutions that provide superior performance and
address the key requirements of these platforms, we believe that we will
accelerate the adoption of 3D graphics and rich digital media.



Target Leading OEMs,
ODMs and System Builders.    Our strategy is to
enable our leading PC, handheld and consumer electronics OEMs, ODMs and major
system builder customers to differentiate their products in a highly competitive
marketplace by using our products. We believe that design wins with these
industry leaders provide market validation of our products, increase brand
awareness and enhance our ability to penetrate additional leading customer
accounts. In addition, we believe that close relationships with OEMs, ODMs and
major system builders will allow us to better anticipate and address customer
needs with future generations of our products.



Sustain Technology and
Product Leadership in 3D Graphics and HD Video, and Media Communications and
Ultra-Low Power.    We are focused on using our
advanced engineering capabilities to accelerate the quality and performance of
3D graphics, HD video, media communications and ultra-low power processing in
PCs and handheld devices. A fundamental aspect of our strategy is to actively
recruit the best 3D graphics and HD video, networking and communications
engineers in the industry, and we believe that we have assembled an
exceptionally experienced and talented engineering team. Our research and
development strategy is to focus on concurrently developing multiple generations
of GPUs, including GPUs for high-performance computing, and mobile and consumer
products using independent design teams. As we have in the past, we intend to
use this strategy to achieve new levels of graphics, networking and
communications features and performance and ultra-low power designs, enabling
our customers to achieve superior performance in their products.



Increase Market
Share.    We believe that substantial market share
will be important to achieving success. We intend to achieve a leading share of
the market in areas in which we don't have a leading market share, and maintain
a leading share of the market in areas in which we do have the lead, by devoting
substantial resources to building families of products for a wide range of
applications that offer significant improvement in performance over existing
products.



Use Our Expertise in Digital
Multimedia.    We believe the synergy created by the
combination of 3D graphics, HD video and the Internet will fundamentally change
the way people work, learn, communicate and play. We believe that our expertise
in HD graphics and system architecture positions us to help drive this
transformation. We are using our expertise in the processing and transmission of
high-bandwidth digital media to develop products designed to address the
requirements of high-bandwidth concurrent multimedia.



Use Our Intellectual Property
and Resources to Enter into License and Development Contracts.From time
to time, we expect to enter into license arrangements that will require
significant customization of our intellectual property components.  For
license arrangements that require significant customization of our intellectual
property components, we generally recognize this license revenue using the
percentage-of-completion method of accounting over the period that services are
performed. For example, we have entered into agreements to jointly develop
custom GPUs for gaming consoles and have licensed software development
tools.





Revolutionize computing with
CUDA and Tesla.








Sales
and Marketing



Our worldwide sales and marketing
strategy is a key part of our objective to become the leading supplier of
programmable, high-performance GPUs and ultra-low power mobile system-on-a-chip
products. Our sales and marketing teams work closely with each industry’s
respective OEMs, ODMs, system builders, motherboard manufacturers, add-in board
manufacturers and industry trendsetters, collectively referred to as our
Channel, to define product features, performance, price and timing of new
products. Members of our sales team have a high level of technical expertise and
product and industry knowledge to support the competitive and complex design win
process. We also employ a highly skilled team of application engineers to assist
our Channel in designing, testing and qualifying system designs that incorporate
our products. We believe that the depth and quality of our design support are
keys to improving our Channel’s time-to-market, maintaining a high level of
customer satisfaction within our Channel and fostering relationships that
encourage customers to use the next generation of our products.



In the segments we serve that
purchase our GPUs, the sales process involves achieving key design wins with
leading OEMs and major system builders and supporting the product design into
high volume production with key ODMs, motherboard manufacturers and add-in board
manufacturers. These design wins in turn influence the retail and system builder
channel that is serviced by add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. Our
distribution strategy is to work with a number of leading independent contract
equipment manufacturers, or CEMs, ODMs, motherboard manufacturers, add-in board
manufacturers and distributors, each of which have relationships with a broad
range of major OEMs and/or strong brand name recognition in the retail channel.
In the CPB segment we serve, the sales process primarily involves achieving key
design wins directly with the leading handheld OEMs and supporting the product
design into high-volume production. Currently, we sell a significant portion of
our processors directly to distributors, CEMs, ODMs, motherboard manufacturers
and add-in board manufacturers, which then sell boards and systems with our
products to leading OEMs, retail outlets and a large number of system
builders.



Although as a result of our
Channel strategy, a small number of our customers represent the majority of our
revenue, their end customers include a large number of OEMs and system builders
throughout the world.  Sales to our largest customer, Quanta,
accounted for 12% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2010.



To encourage software title
developers and publishers to develop games optimized for platforms utilizing our
products, we seek to establish and maintain strong relationships in the software
development community. Engineering and marketing personnel interact with and
visit key software developers to promote and discuss our products, as well as to
ascertain product requirements and solve technical problems. Our developer
program makes certain that our products are available to developers prior to
volume availability in order to encourage the development of software titles
that are optimized for our products.



Backlog



Our sales are primarily made
pursuant to standard purchase orders. The quantity of products purchased by our
customers as well as our shipment schedules are subject to revisions that
reflect changes in both the customers’ requirements and in manufacturing
availability. The semiconductor industry is characterized by short lead time
orders and quick delivery schedules. In light of industry practice and
experience, we believe that only a small portion of our backlog is
non-cancelable and that the dollar amount associated with the non-cancelable
portion is not significant.



Seasonality



Our industry is largely focused on the
consumer products market. Historically, we have seen stronger revenue in the
second half of our fiscal year than in the first half of our fiscal
year, primarily due to back-to-school and holiday demand. Revenue in the second
half of fiscal year 2010 grew by 31% when compared to revenue from the first
half of fiscal year 2010.  While we anticipate that this historical
seasonal trend will resume, there can be no assurance of such
trend.  For example, this seasonal trend did not occur in fiscal year
2009 where revenue in the second half of fiscal year 2009 declined by 33% when
compared to revenue from the first half of fiscal year 2009 due to the worldwide
recessionary economic environment at the time.






Manufacturing



Fabless Manufacturing
Strategy



We do not directly manufacture
semiconductor wafers used for our products. Instead, we utilize what is known as
a fabless manufacturing strategy for all of our product-line operating segments
whereby we employ world-class suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing
process, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging. This
strategy uses the expertise of industry-leading suppliers that are certified by
the International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, in such areas as
fabrication, assembly, quality control and assurance, reliability and testing.
In addition, this strategy allows us to avoid many of the significant costs and
risks associated with owning and operating manufacturing operations. Our
suppliers are also responsible for procurement of most of the raw materials used
in the production of our products. As a result, we can focus our resources on
product design, additional quality assurance, marketing and customer
support.



We utilize industry-leading
suppliers, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation, or TSMC and
United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, to produce our semiconductor
wafers. We then utilize independent subcontractors, such as Advanced
Semiconductor Engineering, or ASE, JSI Logistics Ltd., or JSI, King Yuan
Electronics Co., Ltd, or KYEC, Siliconware Precision Industries Company Ltd., or
SPIL, and STATS ChipPAC Incorporated, or ChipPAC, to perform assembly, testing
and packaging of most of our products.



We typically receive
semiconductor products from our subcontractors, perform incoming quality
assurance and then ship the semiconductors to CEMs, distributors, motherboard
and add-in board manufacturer customers from our third-party warehouse in Hong
Kong. Generally, these manufacturers assemble and test the boards based on our
design kit and test specifications, and then ship the products to retailers,
system builders or OEMs as motherboard and add-in board solutions.



Inventory
and Working Capital



Our management focuses
considerable attention on managing our inventories and other
working-capital-related items. We manage inventories by communicating with our
customers and then using our industry experience to forecast demand on a
product-by-product basis. We then place manufacturing orders for our products
that are based on forecasted demand. The quantity of products actually purchased
by our customers as well as shipment schedules are subject to revisions that
reflect changes in both the customers’ requirements and in manufacturing
availability. We generally maintain substantial inventories of our products
because the semiconductor industry is characterized by short lead time orders
and quick delivery schedules.



Our existing cash and marketable
securities balances increased by 38% at the end of fiscal year 2010 when
compared with the end of fiscal year 2009. We believe that these balances and
our anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our
operating, acquisition and capital requirements for at least the next twelve
months.










Research
and Development



We believe that the continued
introduction of new and enhanced products designed to deliver leading 3D
graphics, HD video, audio, ultra-low power consumption, and system-on-chip
architectures is essential to our future success. Our research and development
strategy is to focus on concurrently developing multiple generations of GPUs,
including GPUs for high-performance computing, and mobile and consumer products
using independent design teams. Our research and development efforts are
performed within specialized groups consisting of software engineering, hardware
engineering, very large scale integration design engineering, process
engineering, architecture and algorithms. These groups act as a pipeline
designed to allow the efficient simultaneous development of multiple generations
of products.



A critical component of our
product development effort is our partnerships with leaders in the computer
aided design, or CAD, industry. We invest significant resources in the
development of relationships with industry leaders, often assisting these
companies in the product definition of their new products. We believe that
forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to
design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of
the 3D graphics market and develop products that utilize leading-edge technology
on a rapid basis. We believe this approach assists us in meeting the new design
schedules of PC OEM and other manufacturers.



As of January 31, 2010, we had
3,940 full-time employees engaged in research and development. During fiscal
years 2010, 2009 and 2008, we incurred research and development expense of
$908.9 million, $855.9 million and $691.6 million, respectively.



Competition



The market for our products is
intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change,
evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices. We believe
that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth
of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, software
support, conformity to industry standard Application Programming Interfaces, or
APIs, manufacturing capabilities, processor pricing, and total system costs. We
believe that our ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we are
able to anticipate the features and functions that customers will demand and
whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable
levels of quality and at competitive prices. We expect competition to increase
from both existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be
less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features
not provided by our products. In addition, it is possible that new competitors
or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market
share.A
significant source of competition comes from companies that provide or intend to
provide GPUs and mobile and consumer products.  Some of our
competitors may have greater marketing, financial, distribution and
manufacturing resources than we do and may be more able to adapt to customer or
technological changes.



Our
current competitors include the following:



·suppliers
      of discrete MCPs that incorporate a combination of networking, audio,
      communications and input/output, or I/O, functionality as part of their
      existing solutions, such as AMD, Broadcom Corporation, or Broadcom,
      Silicon Integrated Systems, Inc., or SIS, VIA Technologies,
      Inc., or VIA, and Intel;

·suppliers
      of GPUs, including MCPs that incorporate 3D graphics functionality as part
      of their existing solutions, such as AMD, Intel, Matrox Electronics
      Systems Ltd., SIS, and VIA;
and

·suppliers
      of system-on-a-chip products that support netbooks, PNDs, PMPs, PDAs,
      cellular phones, handheld devices or embedded devices such as AMD,
      Broadcom, Freescale Semiconductor Inc., Fujitsu Limited, Imagination
      Technologies Ltd., ARM Holdings plc, Marvell Technology Group Ltd, or
      Marvell, NEC Corporation, Qualcomm Incorporated, Renesas Technology,
      Samsung, Seiko-Epson, ST Microelectronics, Texas Instruments Incorporated,
      and Toshiba America, Inc.;






We expect
substantial competition from both Intel’s and AMD’s strategy of selling platform
solutions, such as the success Intel achieved with its Centrino platform
solution.  AMD has also announced a platform solution. Additionally, Intel
and AMD have each announced its intention to integrate a central processing
unit, or CPU, and a GPU on the same chip or same package, as evidenced by AMD’s
announcement of its Fusion processor project and Intel’s announcement of its
multichip packaged solution codenamed Arrandale. If AMD and Intel continue to
pursue platform solutions, we may not be able to successfully compete and our
business would be negatively impacted.



If and to the extent we offer
products in new markets, we may face competition from some of our existing
competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete.
For example, in the case of our CPB, our Tegra products primarily compete in
architecture used in tablets, smartbooks, smartphones, and other handheld
consumer devices.



Our GPU and MCP products are
currently used with both Intel and AMD processors.   In February
2009, Intel filed suit against us, related to a patent license agreement that we
signed with Intel in 2004. Intel seeks an order from the court declaring that
the license does not extend to a new Intel processor architecture and enjoining
us from stating that we have licensing rights for this
architecture.  If Intel successfully obtains such a court order, we
could be unable to sell our MCP products for use with these Intel processors and
our competitive position would be harmed.  In addition, in order to
continue to sell MCP products for use with these Intel processors we could be
required to negotiate a new license agreement with Intel and we may not be able
to do so on reasonable terms, if at all.



Patents
and Proprietary Rights



We rely primarily on a
combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party
nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual
property in the United States and internationally. Our currently issued patents
have expiration dates from March 25, 2010 to June 18, 2029.  We have
numerous patents issued, allowed and pending in the United States and in foreign
jurisdictions. Our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to
our products and the technology used in connection with our products. We also
rely on international treaties, organizations and foreign laws to protect our
intellectual property. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our
products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in
Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same
extent as the laws of the United States. This makes the possibility of piracy of
our technology and products more likely. We continuously assess whether and
where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies
based on such factors as:



·the
      location in which our products are
manufactured;

·our
      strategic technology or product directions in different
      countries;

·the
      degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully
      enforced in different jurisdictions;
and

·the
      commercial significance of our operations and our competitors’ operations
      in particular countries and
regions.



Our pending patent
applications and any future applications may not be approved. In addition, any
issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be
challenged by third parties. The enforcement of patents by others may harm our
ability to conduct our business. Others may independently develop substantially
equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets
or intellectual property. Our failure to effectively protect our intellectual
property could harm our business. We have licensed technology from third parties
for incorporation in some of our products and for defensive reasons, and expect
to continue to enter into such license agreements. These licenses may result in
royalty payments to third parties, the cross licensing of technology by us or
payment of other consideration. If these arrangements are not concluded on
commercially reasonable terms, our business could suffer.



Employees



As of January 31, 2010 we
had 5,706 employees, 3,940 of whom were engaged in research and development and
1,766 of whom were engaged in sales, marketing, operations and administrative
positions. We believe our relationships with our employees are
good.






Financial
Information by Business Segment and Geographic Data







Our CODM does
not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis.
Operating segments do not record intersegment revenue, and, accordingly, there
is none to be reported.  The accounting policies for segment reporting are
the same as for NVIDIA as a whole.  The information included in Note 17 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part IV, Item 15
of this Form 10-K, including financial information by business segment and
revenue and long-lived assets by geographic region, is hereby incorporated by
reference.



Executive
Officers of the Registrant



The
following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their
ages and their positions as of February 26, 2010:



NameAgePositionJen-Hsun
      Huang47President,
      Chief Executive Officer and DirectorDavid
      L. White54Executive
      Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerAjay
      K. Puri55Executive
      Vice President, Worldwide SalesDavid
      M. Shannon54Executive
      Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryDebora
      Shoquist55Executive
      Vice President, Operations



Jen-Hsun Huangco-founded NVIDIA in April 1993 and has served as its President, Chief
Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors since its inception.
From 1985 to 1993, Mr. Huang was employed at LSI Logic Corporation, a computer
chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions, most recently as
Director of Coreware, the business unit responsible for LSI’s “system-on-a-chip”
strategy. From 1983 to 1985, Mr. Huang was a microprocessor designer for
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a semiconductor company. Mr. Huang holds a
B.S.E.E. degree from Oregon State University and an M.S.E.E. degree
from Stanford University.



David L. Whitejoined
NVIDIA in February 2009 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
From August 2004 to February 2009, Mr. White served as the Executive Vice
President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Sanmina-SCI Corporation, a
global provider of customized, integrated electronics manufacturing services to
original equipment manufacturers in the communications, enterprise computing and
medical industries and various other end markets. From 2003 to 2004, Mr. White
was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Asyst Technologies,
Inc., a provider of integrated hardware and software automation solutions that
enhance semiconductor and flat-panel display manufacturing productivity. Mr.
White served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Candescent Technologies
Corporation, a developer of field emission display technology for
next-generation thin flat-panel displays, and held various other positions, from
1995 to 2002. Mr. White holds a B.S. degree from
Brigham Young University and an M.B.A. from the University of
Washington.



Ajay K. Purijoined
NVIDIA in December 2005 as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and became
Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales in January 2009. Prior to NVIDIA, he
held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over a 22-year career
at Sun Microsystems, Inc. Mr. Puri previously held marketing, management
consulting, and product development positions at Hewlett-Packard Company, Booz
Allen Hamilton Inc., and Texas Instruments Incorporated. Mr. Puri holds an
M.B.A. degree from Harvard University, an M.S.E.E. degree from the
California Institute of Technology and a B.S.E.E. degree from the University of
Minnesota.



David M.
Shannonjoined NVIDIA in August 2002 as Vice President and General
Counsel. Mr. Shannon became Secretary of NVIDIA in April 2005, a Senior Vice
President in December 2005 and an Executive Vice President in January 2009. From
1993 to 2002, Mr. Shannon held various counsel positions at Intel,
including the most recent position of Vice President and Assistant General
Counsel. Mr. Shannon also practiced for eight years in the law firm of
Gibson Dunn and Crutcher, focusing on complex commercial and high-technology
related litigation. Mr. Shannon holds B.A. and J.D. degrees from
Pepperdine University.



Debora Shoquistjoined
NVIDIA in September 2007 as Senior Vice President of Operations and became
Executive Vice President of Operations in January 2009.  From 2004 to
2007, Ms. Shoquist served as Senior Vice President of Operations at JDS
Uniphase Corporation, a provider of communications test and measurement
solutions and optical products for the telecommunications industry. From 2002 to
2004, she served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the
Electro-Optics business at Coherent, Inc., a manufacturer of commercial and
scientific laser equipment. Her experience includes her role at Quantum
Corporation as the President of the Personal Computer Hard Disk Drive Division.
Her experience also includes senior roles at Hewlett-Packard Corporation. She
holds a B.S degree in Electrical Engineering from
Kansas State University and a B.S. degree in Biology from Santa
Clara University.










Available
Information



Our Annual Report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable,
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, are available free of
charge on or through our Internet web site, http://www.nvidia.com, as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Our web site
and the information on it or connected to it is not a part of this Form
10-K.



