ITEM 1.    Business



OVERVIEW

Cummins Inc. was founded in 1919 as a corporation in Columbus, Indiana, as one of the first diesel engine manufacturers.We are a global power leader that designs, manufactures, distributes and services diesel and natural gas engines and engine-related component products, including filtration, aftertreatment, turbochargers, fuel systems, controls systems, air handling systems and electric power generation systems.  We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors and other customers worldwide.We serve our customers through a network of over600company-owned and independent distributor locations and over6,800dealer locations in more than190countries and territories.



OPERATING SEGMENTS

We have four complementary operating segments:  Engine, Components, Power Generation and Distribution.  These segments share technology, customers, strategic partners, brand recognition and our distribution network in order to compete more efficiently and effectively in their respective markets.  In each of our operating segments, we compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products.  Our products compete primarily on the basis of performance, fuel economy, speed of delivery, quality, customer support and price.  Financial information about our operating segments, including geographic information, is incorporated by reference from Note22, "OPERATING SEGMENTS," to ourConsolidated Financial Statements.



Engine Segment

Engine segment sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years ended December 31,201320122011Percent of consolidated net sales(1)47%50%52%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)48%54%53%

___________________________________________________________

(1)Measured before intersegment eliminations

Our Engine segment manufactures and markets a broad range of diesel and natural gas powered engines under the Cummins brand name, as well as certain customer brand names, for the heavy- and medium-duty truck, bus, recreational vehicle (RV), light-duty automotive, agricultural, construction, mining, marine, oil and gas, rail and governmental equipment markets.  We offer a wide variety of engine products including:

•Engines with a displacement range of 2.8 to 91 liters and horsepower ranging from 49 to 4,200;

•New parts and service, as well as remanufactured parts and engines, through our extensive distribution network and

•The newly developed light-duty diesel engine, which will be sold through the recreational vehicle, pick-up, bus and certain medium-duty truck markets.

Our Engine segment is organized by engine displacement size and serves these end-user markets:

•Heavy-duty truck -We manufacture diesel engines that range from 310 to 600 horsepower serving global heavy-duty truck customers worldwide.

•Medium-duty truck and bus -We manufacture medium-duty diesel engines ranging from 200 to 450 horsepower serving medium-duty and inter-city delivery truck customers worldwide, with key markets including North America, Latin America, Europe and Mexico.  We also provide diesel or natural gas engines for school buses, transit buses and shuttle buses worldwide, with key markets including North America, Europe, Latin America and Asia.

•Light-duty automotive and RV -We manufacture 320 to 385 horsepower diesel engines for Chrysler Group, LLC's (Chrysler) heavy-duty chassis cab and pickup trucks and 200 to 600 horsepower diesel engines for Class A motor homes (RVs), primarily in North America.









•Industrial -We provide mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines that range from 49 to 4,200 horsepower for a wide variety of equipment in the construction, agricultural, mining, rail, government, oil and gas, power generation and commercial and recreational marine applications throughout the world.  Across these markets we have major customers in North America, Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA), China, Korea, Japan, Latin America, India, Russia, Southeast Asia, South Pacific and Mexico.

The principal customers of our heavy- and medium-duty truck engines include truck manufacturers such as PACCAR Inc. (PACCAR), Daimler Trucks North America, Ford Motor Company, Navistar International Corporation (Navistar), MAN Latin America and Volvo.  We sell our industrial engines to manufacturers of construction, agricultural and marine equipment, including Komatsu, Belaz, Hyundai, Hitachi and JLG.  The principal customers of our light-duty on-highway engines are Chrysler and manufacturers of RVs.

In the markets served by our Engine segment, we compete with independent engine manufacturers as well as OEMs who manufacture engines for their own products.  Our primary competitors in North America are International Truck and Engine Corporation (Engine Division), Detroit Diesel Corporation, Caterpillar Inc. (CAT), Volvo Powertrain, Ford Motor Company and Hino Power.  Our primary competitors in international markets vary from country to country, with local manufacturers generally predominant in each geographic market.  Other engine manufacturers in international markets include Weichai Power Co. Ltd., MAN Nutzfahrzeuge AG (MAN), Fiat Power Systems, GuangxiYuchai Group, GE Jenbacher, Tognum AG, CAT, Volvo, Yanmar Co., Ltd. and Deutz AG.



Components Segment

Components segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years ended December 31,201320122011Percent of consolidated net sales(1)21%19%18%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)24%18%18%

___________________________________________________________

(1)Measured before intersegment eliminations

Our Components segment supplies products which complement our Engine segment, including aftertreatment systems, turbochargers, filtration products and fuel systems for commercial diesel applications.  We manufacture filtration systems for on- and off-highway heavy-duty and mid-range equipment, and we are a supplier of filtration products for industrial and passenger car applications.  In addition, we develop aftertreatment systems and turbochargers to help our customers meet increasingly stringent emission standards and fuel systems which to date have primarily supplied our Engine segment and our joint venture partner Scania.

Our Components segment is organized around the following businesses:

•Emission solutions -Our emission solutions business is a global leader in designing, manufacturing and integrating aftertreatment technology and solutions for the commercial on-and off-highway medium-duty, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engine markets.  Our emission solutions business develops and produces various emission solutions, including custom engineering systems and integrated controls, oxidation catalysts, particulate filters, oxides of nitrogen (NOx) reduction systems such as selective catalytic reduction and NOx adsorbers and engineered components such as dosers and sensors.  Our emission solutions business primarily serves markets in North America, Europe, Brazil, Russia, Australia and China and serves both OEM and engine first fit and retrofit customers.

•Turbo technologies -Our turbo technologies business designs, manufactures and markets turbochargers for light-duty, mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel markets with manufacturing facilities in five countries and sales and distribution worldwide.  Our turbo technologies business provides critical air handling technologies for engines, including variable geometry turbochargers, to meet challenging performance requirements and worldwide emission standards.  Our turbo technologies business primarily serves markets in North America, Europe, Asia and Brazil.









•Filtration -Our filtration business designs and manufactures filtration, coolant and chemical products.  Our filtration business offers over 8,000 products including air filters, fuel filters, fuel water separators, lube filters, hydraulic filters, coolant, diesel exhaust fluid, fuel additives and other filtration systems to OEMs, dealers/distributors and end users.  Our filtration business supports a wide customer base in a diverse range of markets including on-highway, off-highway, oil and gas, agriculture, construction, power generation, marine, industrial and light-duty trucks.  We produce and sell globally recognized Fleetguard® branded products in over 160 countries including countries in North America, Europe, South America, Asia, Australia and Africa. Fleetguard products are available through thousands of distribution points worldwide.

•Fuel systems -Our fuel systems business designs and manufactures new and replacement fuel systems primarily for heavy-duty on-highway diesel engine applications and also remanufactures fuel systems.

Customers of our Components segment generally include our Engine and Distribution segments, truck manufacturers and other OEMs, many of which are also customers of our Engine segment, such as PACCAR, Daimler, Volvo, Navistar, Komatsu, Ford and other manufacturers that use our components in their product platforms.

Our Components segment competes with other manufacturers of aftertreatment systems, filtration, turbochargers and fuel systems.  Our primary competitors in these markets include Robert Bosch GmbH, Donaldson Company, Inc., Clarcor Inc., Mann+Hummel Group, Honeywell International, Borg-Warner, Tenneco Inc., Eberspacher Holding GmbH & Co. KG and Denso Corporation.

On July 18, 2012, we acquired the doser technology business assets from Hilite Germany GmbH (Hilite) in a $176 million cash transaction.  The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination with the majority of the purchase price being allocated to goodwill and technology and customer related intangible assets.  The results of the acquired entity for 2012 and 2013 were included in the Components operating segment.

During 2011, we sold certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business, which manufactured exhaust products and select components for emission systems for a variety of applications not core to our other product offerings, and our light-duty filtration business, which manufactured light-duty automotive and industrial filtration solutions.  Both of these businesses were historically included in our Components segment.  See Note2, "ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES," to ourConsolidated Financial Statementsfor additional detail.



Power Generation Segment

Power Generation segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years ended December 31,201320122011Percent of consolidated net sales(1)14%15%16%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)10%12%14%

___________________________________________________________

(1)Measured before intersegment eliminations

Our Power Generation segment designs and manufactures most of the components that make up power generation systems, including controls, alternators, transfer switches and switchgear.  This segment is a global provider of power generation systems, components and services for a diversified customer base, including the following:

•Standby power solutions for customers who rely on uninterrupted sources of power to meet the needs of their customers.

•Distributed generation power solutions for customers with less reliable electrical power infrastructures, typically in developing countries.  In addition, our power solutions provide an alternative source of generating capacity located close to its point of use, which is purchased by utilities, independent power producers and large power customers for use as prime or peaking power.

•Mobile power solutions, which provide a secondary source of power (other than drivetrain power) for mobile applications.











In the first quarter of 2012, our Power Generation segment reorganized its reporting structure to include the following businesses.

•Power products -Our power products business manufactures generators for commercial and consumer applications ranging from two kilowatts (kW) to one megawatt (MW) under the Cummins Power Generation and Cummins Onan brands.

•Power systems -Our power systems business manufactures and sells diesel fuel-based generator sets over one MW, paralleling systems and transfer switches for critical protection and distributed generation applications.  We also offer integrated systems that consist of generator sets, power transfer and paralleling switchgear for applications such as data centers, health care facilities and waste water treatment plants.

•Alternators -Our alternator business (formally called generator technologies prior to the fourth quarter of 2013) designs, manufactures, sells and services A/C generator/alternator products internally as well as to other generator set assemblers.  Our products are sold under the Stamford, AVK and Markon brands and range in output from 0.6 kilovolt-amperes (kVA) to 30,000 kVA.

•Power Solutions -Our power solutions business provides natural gas fuel-based turnkey solutions for distributed generation and energy management applications in the range of 300-2000 kW products.  The business also serves a global rental account for diesel and gas generator sets.

This segment continuously explores emerging technologies and provides integrated power generation products using technologies other than reciprocating engines.  We use our own research and development capabilities as well as those of our business partnerships to develop cost-effective and environmentally sound power solutions.

Our customer base for our power generation products is highly diversified, with customer groups varying based on their power needs. India, China, the United Kingdom (U.K.), Western Europe, Latin America and the Middle East are our largest geographic markets outside of North America.

Power Generation competes with a variety of engine manufacturers and generator set assemblers across the world.  Our primary competitors are CAT, Tognum (MTU) and Kohler/SDMO (Kohler Group), but we also compete with GE Jenbacher, FG Wilson (CAT group), Generac, Mitsubishi (MHI) and numerous regional generator set assemblers.  Our alternators business competes globally with Emerson Electric Co., Marathon Electric and Meccalte, among others.



Distribution Segment

Distribution segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years ended December 31,201320122011Percent of consolidated net sales(1)18%16%14%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)18%16%15%

___________________________________________________________

(1)Measured before intersegment eliminations

Our Distribution segment consists of 27 company-owned and 15 joint venture distributors that service and distribute the full range of our products and services to end-users at over 400 locations in approximately 80 distribution territories.  Our company-owned distributors are located in key markets, including North America, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, India, China, Africa, Russia, Japan, Brazil, Singapore and Central America, while our joint venture distributors are located in key markets, including North America, South America, Africa, China, Thailand, Singapore and Vietnam.

The Distribution segment consists of the following businesses which service and/or distribute the full range of our products and services:

•Parts and filtration,

•Power generation,

•Engines and

•Service.









The Distribution segment is organized into five primary geographic regions:

•North and Central America,

•Asia Pacific,

•Europe and the Middle East (EME),

•Africa and

•South America.

Asia Pacific and EME are composed of six smaller regional distributor organizations (South Pacific, Greater Europe, the Middle East, China, India and Northeast/Southeast Asia) which allow us to better manage these vast geographic territories.

North and Central America are comprised of a network of wholly-owned and partially-owned distributors.  Internationally, our network consists of independent, partially-owned and wholly-owned distributors.  Through these networks, we provide parts and service to our customers.  These full-service solutions include maintenance contracts, engineering services and integrated products, where we customize our products to cater to specific needs of end-users.  Our distributors also serve and develop dealers, predominantly OEM dealers, in their territories by providing new products, technical support, tools, training, parts and product information.

In addition to managing our involvement with our wholly-owned and partially-owned distributors, our Distribution segment is responsible for managing the performance and capabilities of our independent distributors.  Our Distribution segment serves a highly diverse customer base with approximately44 percentof its2013sales being generated from new engines and power generation equipment, compared to45 percentin2012, with its remaining sales generated by parts and filtration and service revenue.

Financial information about our distributors accounted for under the equity method are incorporated by reference from Note3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to ourConsolidated Financial Statements.

Our distributors compete with distributors or dealers that offer similar products.  In many cases, these competing distributors or dealers are owned by, or affiliated with the companies that are listed above as competitors of our Engine, Components or Power Generation segments.  These competitors vary by geographical location.

On September 17, 2013, we announced our intention to acquire the equity that we do not already own in most of our partially-owned United States and Canadian distributors over the nextthreetofive years.

In December 2013, we acquired the remaining 35 percent interest in Cummins Western Canada LP (Western Canada) from the former principal for consideration of approximately $34 million.  This entity was previously consolidated and, as a result, the acquisition was not treated as a business combination but as an equity transaction.This acquisition was made in accordance with our planned strategy.

In May 2013, we acquired the remaining 67 percent interest in Cummins Rocky Mountain LLC (Rocky Mountain) from the former principal for consideration of approximately $62 million in cash and an additional $74 million in cash paid to creditors to eliminate all debt related to the entity.The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination, with the results of the acquired entity included in the Distribution operating segment in the second quarter of 2013.

In January 2013, we acquired an additional 29.99 percent interest in Cummins Northwest LLC (Northwest) from the former principal for consideration of approximately $18 million.   We formed a new partnership with a new distributor principal.  We owned 79.99 percent of Northwest and the new distributor principal owned 20.01 percent.  The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination, with the results of the acquired entity included in the Distribution operating segment in the first quarter of 2013.In July 2013, we acquired the remaining 20.01 percent from the former distributor principal for an additional $4 million.

In July 2012, we acquired an additional 45 percent interest in Cummins Central Power from the former principal for consideration of approximately $20 million.  The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination, with the results of the acquired entity included in the Distribution operating segment in the third quarter of 2012.

See Note2, "ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES," to ourConsolidated Financial Statementsfor additional detail.











JOINT VENTURES, ALLIANCES AND NON-WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES

We have entered into a number of joint venture agreements and alliances with business partners around the world. Our joint ventures are either distribution or manufacturing entities. We also own controlling interests in non-wholly-owned manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries.  Five entities, in which we own more than a 50 percent equity interest, are consolidated in our Distribution segment results as well as several manufacturing joint ventures in the other operating segments.

In the event of a change of control of either party to certain of these joint ventures and other strategic alliances, certain consequences may result including automatic termination and liquidation of the venture, exercise of "put" or "call" rights of ownership by the non-acquired partner, termination or transfer of technology license rights to the non-acquired partner and increases in component transfer prices to the acquired partner. We will continue to evaluate joint venture and partnership opportunities in order to penetrate new markets, develop new products and generate manufacturing and operational efficiencies.

Financial information about our investments in joint ventures and alliances is incorporated by reference from Note3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to theConsolidated Financial Statements.

Our equity income from these investees was as follows:

Years ended December 31,In millions201320122011Distribution EntitiesNorth American distributors$12940%$14742%$13436%Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda.258%268%226%All other distributors1—%41%41%Manufacturing EntitiesDongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.6319%5215%8021%Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.5818%6118%6818%Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. (Heavy-duty)(21)(6)%(13)(4)%(6)(2)%Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. (Light-duty)175%51%(7)(2)%Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd.134%134%154%Tata Cummins, Ltd.52%113%144%Cummins Westport, Inc.41%144%144%All other manufacturers319%278%3710%Cummins share of net income(1)$325100%$347100%$375100%

___________________________________________________________

(1)This total represents our share of net income of our equity investees and is exclusive of royalties and interest income from our equity investees.  To see how this amount reconciles to "Equity, royalty and interest income from investees" in theConsolidated Statements of Income, see Note3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to ourConsolidated Financial Statements.

Distribution Entities

•North American Distributors -As of December 31, 2013, our distribution channel in North America includednineunconsolidated partially-owned distributors.  Our equity interests in these nonconsolidated entities ranged from37 percentto50 percent.  We also had more than a50 percentownership interest inthreepartially owned distributors which we consolidate.  While each distributor is a separate legal entity, the business of each is substantially the same as that of our wholly-owned distributors based in other parts of the world.  All of our distributors, irrespective of their legal structure or ownership, offer the full range of our products and services to customers and end-users in their respective markets.

•Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda. -Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda. is a joint venture with Komatsu America Corporation.  The joint venture is a distributor that offers the full range of our products and services to customers and end-users in the Chilean and Peruvian markets.











Our distribution agreements with independent and partially-owned distributors generally have a renewable three-year term and are restricted to specified territories.  Our distributors develop and maintain a network of dealers with which we have no direct relationship.  Our distributors are permitted to sell other, noncompetitive products only with our consent.  We license all of our distributors to use our name and logo in connection with the sale and service of our products, with no right to assign or sublicense the trademarks, except to authorized dealers, without our consent.  Products are sold to the distributors at standard domestic or international distributor net prices, as applicable.  Net prices are wholesale prices we establish to permit our distributors an adequate margin on their sales.  Subject to local laws, we can generally refuse to renew these agreements upon expiration or terminate them upon written notice for inadequate sales, change in principal ownership and certain other reasons.  Distributors also have the right to terminate the agreements upon 60-day notice without cause, or 30-day notice for cause.  Upon termination or failure to renew, we are required to purchase the distributor's current inventory, signage and special tools, and may, at our option purchase other assets of the distributor, but are under no obligation to do so.

See further discussion of our distribution network under the Distribution segment section above.

Manufacturing Entities

Our manufacturing joint ventures have generally been formed with customers and generally are intended to allow us to increase our market penetration in geographic regions, reduce capital spending, streamline our supply chain management and develop technologies.  Our largest manufacturing joint ventures are based in China and are included in the list below.  Our engine manufacturing joint ventures are supplied by our Components segment in the same manner as it supplies our wholly-owned Engine segment and Power Generation segment manufacturing facilities.  Our Components segment joint ventures and wholly owned entities provide fuel systems, filtration, aftertreatment systems and turbocharger products that are used in our engines as well as some competitors' products.  The results and investments in our joint ventures in which we have50 percentor less ownership interest are included in “Equity, royalty and interest income from investees” and “Investments and advances related to equity method investees” in ourConsolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Balance Sheets, respectively.

•Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. -Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. (CCEC) is a joint venture in China with Chongqing Machinery and Electric Co. Ltd.  This joint venture manufactures several models of our heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines, primarily serving the industrial and stationary power markets in China.

•Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. -Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. (DCEC) is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng Automotive Co. Ltd., a subsidiary of Dongfeng Motor Corporation (Dongfeng), one of the largest medium-duty and heavy-duty truck manufacturers in China.  DCEC produces Cummins4- to13-liter mechanical engines, full-electric diesel engines, with a power range from125to545horsepower, and natural gas engines.

•Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. -Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Beiqi Foton Motor Co., Ltd., a commercial vehicle manufacturer, which consists of two distinct lines of business, a light-duty business and a heavy-duty business.  The light-duty business produces ISF2.8 literand ISF3.8 literfamilies of our high performance light-duty diesel engines in Beijing.  These engines are used in light-duty commercial trucks, pickup trucks, buses, multipurpose and sport utility vehicles with main markets in China, Brazil and Russia.  Certain types of marine, small construction equipment and industrial applications are also served by these engine families.  The heavy-duty business has been in the development stage for the past several years but is scheduled to start the production of ISG10.5 literand ISG11.8 literfamilies of our high performance heavy-duty diesel engines in the second quarter of 2014 in Beijing.  These engines will be used in heavy-duty commercial trucks in China and subsequently in world wide markets.  Certain types of construction equipment and industrial applications will also be served by these engine families in the future.

•Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd. -Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng that manufactures filtration systems.

•Cummins Westport, Inc. -Cummins Westport, Inc. is a joint venture in Canada with Westport Innovations Inc. to market and sell automotive spark-ignited natural gas engines and to participate in joint technology projects on low-emission technologies.

•Tata Cummins, Ltd. -Tata Cummins, Ltd. is a joint venture in India with Tata Motors Ltd., the largest automotive company in India and a member of the Tata group of companies.  This joint venture manufactures engines in India for use in trucks manufactured by Tata Motors, as well as for various industrial and power generation applications.











•Komatsu manufacturing alliances -Komatsu manufacturing alliances consists oftwomanufacturing joint ventures andonedesign joint venture including Komatsu Cummins Engine Company (KCEC) in Japan and Cummins Komatsu Engine Company (CKEC) in the United States (U.S.) with Komatsu Ltd.  These joint ventures manufacture Cummins-designed medium-duty engines in Japan and Komatsu-designed high-horsepower engines in the U.S.  The industrial engine design joint venture is located in Japan.

•Cummins-Scania XPI Manufacturing, LLC -Cummins-Scania XPI Manufacturing, LLC is a joint venture in the United States with Scania Holding, Inc.  This joint venture manufactures several models of advanced fuel systems for heavy-duty and midrange diesel engines.

•Cummins Olayan Energy Ltd. -Cummins Olayan Energy Ltd. is a joint venture in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia with General Contracting Company to operate certain rental power generation equipment, which is primarily utilized within the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

•Guangxi Cummins Industrial Power Co., Ltd. -Guangxi Cummins Industrial Power Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Guangxi LiuGong Machinery Co.  This joint venture manufactures6.7 literand9.3 literdiesel engines for use in various construction equipment.

Non-Wholly-Owned Subsidiary

We have a controlling interest in Cummins India Ltd. (CIL), which is a publicly listed company on various stock exchanges in India.  CIL produces mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines, generators for the Indian and export markets and natural gas spark-ignited engines for power generation, automotive and industrial applications.  CIL also has distribution and power generation operations.



SUPPLY

The performance of the end-to-end supply chain, extending through to our suppliers, is foundational to our ability to meet customers' expectations and support long-term growth.  We are committed to having a robust strategy for how we select and manage our suppliers to enable a market focused supply chain.  This requires us to continuously evaluate and upgrade our supply base, as necessary, to ensure we are meeting the needs of our customers.

We have a strategic sourcing policy that guides decisions on what we make internally, what we purchase externally and when we establish supplier partnerships to provide the lowest total cost and highest supply chain performance.  Today we machine and assemble strategic components used in our engines and power generation units, including blocks, heads, turbochargers, connecting rods, camshafts, crankshafts, filters, alternators and fuel systems.  We source externally purchased material and manufactured components from global leading suppliers both domestically and internationally.  Many key suppliers are managed through long-term supply agreements that assure capacity, delivery, quality and cost requirements are met over an extended period.  Approximately60to70percent of the direct material in our product designs are single sourced to external suppliers.  Although we elected to source a relatively high proportion of our total raw materials and components from single suppliers, we have an established annual sourcing strategy process and risk assessment procedures to evaluate risk.  These processes are leading us to increase our use of dual and parallel sourcing to both minimize risk and increase supply chain responsiveness.

Other important elements of our sourcing strategy include:

•working with suppliers to measure and improve their environmental footprint,

•selecting and managing suppliers to comply with our supplier code of conduct and

•assuring our suppliers do not use restricted or prohibited materials in our products.



PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own or control a significant number of patents and trademarks relating to the products we manufacture.  These patents and trademarks were granted and registered over a period of years.  Although these patents and trademarks are generally considered beneficial to our operations, we do not believe any patent, group of patents, or trademark (other than our leading brand house trademarks) is significant to our business.











SEASONALITY

While individual product lines may experience modest seasonal variation in production, there is no material effect on the demand for the majority of our products on a quarterly basis with the exception that our Power Generation segment normally experiences seasonal declines in the first quarter due to general declines in construction spending during this period and our Distribution segment normally experiences seasonal declines in its first quarter business activity due to holiday periods in Asia and Australia.



LARGEST CUSTOMERS

We have thousands of customers around the world and have developed long-standing business relationships with many of them.  PACCAR is our largest customer, accounting for approximately 12 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2013, compared to approximately 13 percent in 2012 and 12 percent in 2011.  We have long-term supply agreements with PACCAR for our heavy-duty ISX 15 liter and ISX 11.9 liter engines and our ISL 9 liter mid-range engine.  While a significant number of our sales to PACCAR are under long-term supply agreements, these agreements provide for particular engine requirements for specific vehicle models and not a specific volume of engines.  PACCAR is our only customer accounting for more than 10 percent of our net sales in 2013.  The loss of this customer or a significant decline in the production level of PACCAR vehicles that use our engines would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  We have been an engine supplier to PACCAR for over 69 years.  A summary of principal customers for each operating segment is included in our segment discussion.

In addition to our agreement with PACCAR, we have long-term heavy-duty engine supply agreements with Navistar and Volvo Trucks North America and long-term mid-range supply agreements with Daimler Trucks North America, Navistar, MAN and Ford.  We also have an agreement with Chrysler to supply engines for its Ram trucks.  In our off-highway markets, we have various engine and component supply agreements ranging across our midrange and high-horsepower businesses with Komatsu Ltd., as well as various joint ventures and other license agreements in our Engine, Component and Distribution segments.

Collectively, our net sales to these eight customers, including PACCAR, was approximately 36 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2013

, compared to approximately 35 percent in 2012 and 33 percent in 2011.

Excluding PACCAR, net sales to any single customer were less than 7 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2013

, compared to less than 8 percent in 2012 and less than 6 percent in 2011.

These agreements contain standard purchase and sale agreement terms covering engine and engine parts pricing, quality and delivery commitments, as well as engineering product support obligations.  The basic nature of our agreements with OEM customers is that they are long-term price and operations agreements that help assure the availability of our products to each customer through the duration of the respective agreements.  Agreements with most OEMs contain bilateral termination provisions giving either party the right to terminate in the event of a material breach, change of control or insolvency or bankruptcy of the other party.





BACKLOG

Our 2013 lead times for the majority of our businesses improved from their 2012 levels.  While we have supply agreements with some truck and off-highway equipment OEMs, most of our business is transacted through open purchase orders.  These open orders are historically subject to month-to-month releases and are subject to cancellation on reasonable notice without cancellation charges and therefore are not considered firm.  As of December 31, 2013, we did not have any significant backlogs.



RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSE

In2013, we decreased our research, development and engineering expenses slightly as we continued to invest in future critical technologies and products.  We will continue to make investments to improve our current technologies, continue to meet the future emission requirements around the world and improve fuel economy.

Our research and development program is focused on product improvements, innovations and cost reductions for our customers.  Research and development expenditures include salaries, contractor fees, building costs, utilities, administrative expenses and allocation of corporate costs and are expensed, net of contract reimbursements, when incurred.  From time to time, we enter into agreements with customers to fund a portion of the research and development costs of a particular project.  We generally account for these reimbursements as an offset to the related research and development expenditure.  Research and development expenses, net of contract reimbursements, were$700 millionin 2013,$721 millionin 2012 and$621 millionin 2011.Contract reimbursements were$76 millionin 2013,$86 millionin 2012 and$75 millionin 2011.









For 2011, approximately $1 million, or less than 1 percent, of our research and development expenditures were directly related to compliance with 2010 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) emission standards.  For 2013, 2012 and 2011, approximately $15 million, $101 million and $104 million, or 2 percent, 14 percent and 17 percent, respectively, of our research and development expenditures were directly related to compliance with 2013 EPA emission standards.  For 2013, approximately $32 million, or 5 percent, of our research and development expenditures was directly related to compliance with 2017 EPA emission standards.



ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY

www.cummins.com

, although such report and addendum are not incorporated into this Form 10-K.



ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

Product Environmental Compliance

Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements that directly or indirectly impose standards governing emission and noise.  We have substantially increased our global environmental compliance presence and expertise to better prepare for, understand and ultimately meet emerging product environmental regulations around the world.  Our products comply with all current emission standards that the European Union (EU), EPA, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) and other state and international regulatory agencies have established for heavy-duty on-highway diesel and gas engines and off-highway engines.  Our ability to comply with these and future emission standards is an essential element in maintaining our leadership position in regulated markets.  We have made, and will continue to make, significant capital and research expenditures to comply with these standards. Our failure to comply with these standards could result in adverse effects on our future financial results.

EU and EPA Engine Certifications

The current on-highway emission standards came into effect in the EU on January 1, 2013 (Euro VI) and on January 1, 2010 for the EPA.  To meet the more stringent heavy-duty on-highway emission standards, we used an evolution of our proven selective catalytic reduction (SCR) and exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) technology solutions and refined them for the EU and EPA certified engines to maintain power and torque with substantial fuel economy improvement and maintenance intervals comparable with our previous compliant engines.  We offer a complete lineup of on-highway engines to meet the near-zero emission standards.  Mid-range and heavy-duty engines for EU and EPA require NOx aftertreatment.  NOx reduction is achieved by an integrated technology solution comprised of the XPI High Pressure Common Rail fuel system, SCR technology, next-generation cooled EGR, advanced electronic controls, proven air handling and the Cummins Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF).  The EU, EPA, and CARB have certified that our engines meet the current emission requirements. Emission standards in international markets, including Japan, Mexico, Australia, Brazil, Russia, India and China are becoming more stringent.  We believe that our experience in meeting the EU and EPA emission standards leaves us well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in these markets as the need for emission control capability grows.









We have received certification from the EPA that we have met both the EPA 2013 and 2014 GHG regulations and rules.  The EPA 2013 regulations add the requirement of On-Board Diagnostics, which were introduced on the ISX15 in 2010, across the full on-highway product line in 2013 in addition to maintaining the same near-zero emission levels of NOx and Particulate Matter (PM) required in 2010.  On-Board Diagnostics provide enhanced service capability with standardized diagnostic trouble codes, service tool interface, in-cab warning lamp and service information availability.  The new GHG and fuel-efficiency regulations will be required for all heavy-duty diesel and natural gas engines beginning in January 2014.  Our GHG certification is the first engine certificate issued by the EPA and uses the same proven base engine with the XPI fuel system, Variable Geometry Turbocharger (VGTTM), Cummins Aftertreatment System with DPF and SCR technology.

Other Environmental Statutes and Regulations

Expenditures for environmental control activities and environmental remediation projects at our facilities in the U.S. have not been a substantial portion of our annual capital outlays and are not expected to be material in 2013.  We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with laws and regulations applicable to our plants and operations.

In the U.S., pursuant to notices received from federal and state agencies and/or defendant parties in site environmental contribution actions, we have been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended or similar state laws, at less than 20waste disposal sites.  Based upon our experiences at similar sites we believe that our aggregate future remediation costs will not be significant.We have established accruals that we believe are adequate for our expected future liability with respect to these sites.

In addition, we have several other sites where we are working with governmental authorities on remediation projects.  The costs for these remediation projects are not expected to be material.



EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 47,900 persons worldwide.  Approximately 15,650 of our employees worldwide are represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2014 and 2016.



AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549.  Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room.  The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including Cummins) file electronically with the SEC.  The SEC's internet site is www.sec.gov.

Our internet site is www.cummins.com.  You can access our Investors and Media webpage through our internet site, by clicking on the heading "Investors and Media" followed by the "Investor Relations" link.  We make available, free of charge, on or through our Investors and Media webpage, our proxy statements, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

We also have a Corporate Governance webpage.  You can access our Governance Documents webpage through our internet site, www.cummins.com, by clicking on the heading "Investors and Media," followed by the "Investor Relations" link and then the topic heading of "Governance Documents" within the "Corporate Governance" heading.  Code of Conduct, Committee Charters and other governance documents are included at this site.  Our Code of Conduct applies to all employees, regardless of their position or the country in which they work.  It also applies to the employees of any entity owned or controlled by us.  We will post any amendments to the Code of Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange LLC (NYSE), on our internet site.  The information on our internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.











EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Following are the names and ages of our executive officers, their positions with us as of January 31,2014, and summaries of their backgrounds and business experience:





Name and AgePresent Cummins Inc. position andyear appointed to positionPrincipal position during the pastfive years other than Cummins Inc.position currently held

N. Thomas Linebarger (51)Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (2012)President and Chief Operating Officer (2008-2011)

Sharon R. Barner (56)Vice President—General Counsel (2012)Partner—Law firm of Foley & Lardner (2011-2012)Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce—Intellectual Property and Deputy Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (2009-2011)Partner—Law firm of Foley & Lardner (1996-2009)

Pamela L. Carter (64)Vice President and President—Distribution Business (2007)

Steven M. Chapman (59)Group Vice President—China and Russia (2009)Vice President—Emerging Markets and Businesses (2005-2009)

Jill E. Cook (50)Vice President—Human Resources (2003)

Richard J. Freeland (56)Vice President and President—Engine Business (2010)Vice President and President—Components Group (2008-2010)

Richard E. Harris (61)Vice President—Chief Investment Officer (2008)

Mark A. Levett (64)Vice President—Corporate Responsibility and Chief Executive Officer - Cummins Foundation (2013)General Manager and Vice President—High Horsepower (1999-2013)

Marsha L. Hunt (50)Vice President—Corporate Controller (2003)

Marya M. Rose (51)Vice President—Chief Administrative Officer (2011)Vice President—General Counsel and Corporate Secretary (2001-2011)

Livingston L. Satterthwaite (53)Vice President and President—Power Generation (2008)

Anant J. Talaulicar (52)Vice President and President—Components Group (2010), Vice President and Managing Director—India ABO (2004)Chairman and Managing Director—Cummins India Ltd. (2003-present)

John C. Wall (62)Vice President—Chief Technical Officer (2000)

Patrick J. Ward (50)Vice President—Chief Financial Officer (2008)

Lisa M. Yoder (50)Vice President—Global Supply Chain & Manufacturing (2011)Vice President—Corporate Supply Chain (2010-2011), Executive Director—Supply Chain & Operations-Power Generation (2007-2010)

Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is elected annually by our Board of Directors and holds office until the meeting of the Board of Directors at which his election is next considered.  Other officers are appointed by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, are ratified by our Board of Directors and hold office for such period as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors may prescribe.











