ITEM 1.    Business

OVERVIEW

Cummins Inc. was founded in 1919 as a corporation in Columbus, Indiana, as one of the first diesel engine manufacturers. We are
a global power leader that designs,
manufactures, distributes and services diesel and natural gas engines, electric power generation systems and engine-related component products, including filtration, exhaust aftertreatment, fuel
systems, controls and air handling systems. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors and other customers worldwide. We serve our customers through a network of
more than 600 company-owned and independent distributor locations and more than 6,000 dealer locations in more than 190 countries and territories.

OPERATING SEGMENTS

We have four complementary operating segments: Engine, Power Generation, Components and Distribution. These segments share technology,
customers, strategic partners, brand recognition and our distribution network to gain a competitive advantage in their respective markets. In each of our operating segments, we compete worldwide with
a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our products compete primarily on the basis of performance, fuel economy, speed of delivery, quality, customer
support and price. Financial information about our operating segments, including geographic information, is incorporated by reference from Note 25, "OPERATING SEGMENTS," to ourConsolidated Financial
Statements.

Engine Segment

Engine segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years endedDecember 31,201020092008Percent of consolidated net sales(1)49%49%50%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)(2)48%34%41%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations(2)Defined
as earnings before interest and taxes

Our
Engine segment manufactures and markets a broad range of diesel and natural gas powered engines under the Cummins brand name, as well as certain customer brand names, for the heavy-
and medium-duty truck, bus, recreational vehicle (RV), light-duty automotive,
agricultural, construction, mining, marine, oil and gas, rail and governmental equipment markets. We offer a wide variety of engine products including:

•Engines with a displacement range of 2.8 to 91 liters and horsepower ranging from 60 to 3,500, and•New parts and service, as well as remanufactured parts and engines, through our extensive distribution network.

Our
Engine segment is organized by engine displacement size and serves these end-user markets:

•Heavy-Duty Truck—We manufacture diesel engines
that range from 310 to 600 horsepower serving global heavy-duty truck customers worldwide.









•Medium-Duty Truck and Bus—We manufacture
medium-duty diesel engines ranging from 200 to 400 horsepower serving medium-duty and inter-city delivery truck customers worldwide, with key markets including:
Latin America, North America, Europe and Asia. We also provide diesel or natural gas engines for school buses, transit buses and shuttle buses worldwide, with key markets including North America,
Asia, Europe and Latin America.•Light-Duty Automotive and RV—We manufacture 305 to
350 horsepower diesel engines for Chrysler's heavy-duty and chassis cab pickup trucks and 300 to 650 horsepower diesel engines for Class A motor homes, primarily in North America.•Industrial—We provide mid-range,
heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines that range from 60 to 3,500 horsepower for a wide variety of equipment in the construction, agricultural, mining, rail, government, oil
and gas, power generation and commercial and recreational marine applications throughout the world. Across these markets we have major customers in North America, Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA),
China, India, Southeast Asia, Latin America, Korea, Russia, Japan, Mexico and South Pacific.

The
principal customers of our heavy- and medium-duty truck engines include truck manufacturers such as PACCAR, Ford, MAN Latin America and Daimler Trucks North America. We
sell our industrial engines to manufacturers of construction, agricultural and marine equipment, including Komatsu, Hyundai, Case New Holland, Belaz, Liugong, Hitachi and Brunswick. The principal
customers of our light-duty on-highway engines are Chrysler and manufacturers of RVs.

In
the markets served by our Engine segment, we compete with independent engine manufacturers as well as OEMs who manufacture engines for their own products. Our primary
competitors in North America are International Truck and Engine Corporation (Engine Division), Detroit Diesel Corporation, Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) and Volvo Powertrain. Our primary competitors
in international markets vary from country to country, with local manufacturers generally predominant in each geographic market. Other engine manufacturers in international markets include Weichai
Power Co. Ltd., MAN Nutzfahrzeuge AG (MAN), Fiat Power Systems, GE Jenbacher, Tognum AG, CAT, Volvo, Yanmar Co., Ltd., GuangxiYuchai Group and Deutz AG.

Power Generation Segment

Power Generation segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years endedDecember 31,201020092008Percent of consolidated net sales(1)18%19%20%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)(2)18%22%28%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations(2)Defined
as earnings before interest and taxes

Our
Power Generation segment designs and manufactures most of the components that make up power generation systems, including engines, controls, alternators, transfer switches and
switchgear. This
segment is a global provider of power generation systems, components and services for a diversified customer base and includes the following:

•Standby power solutions for customers who rely on uninterrupted sources of power to meet the needs of their customers.•Distributed generation power solutions for customers with less reliable electrical power infrastructures, typically in
developing countries. In addition, our power solutions provide an









alternative
source of generating capacity located close to its point of use, which is purchased by utilities, independent power producers and large power customers for use as prime or peaking power.•Mobile power provides a secondary source of power (other than drivetrain power) for mobile applications.

Our
Power Generation segment is organized around the following businesses:

•Commercial products—Commercial products manufactures
generators for commercial applications ranging from 5 kilowatts to 2.75 megawatts.•Generator technologies—Generator technologies manufactures and
sells its alternator products internally as well as to other generator set assemblers. Our products are sold under the Stamford, AVK and Markon brands and range in output from 0.6kVA to 30,000 kVA.•Commercial projects—Commercial projects includes mainly all of
our natural gas-fired generators business, our power generation project business and our military business.•Power electronics—Power electronics builds controls for our
generators in-house. We also sell switch gear and transfer switches to both internal and external customers. This business integrates well with commercial products to provide a complete
solution to customers.•Consumer—Consumer manufactures and sells consumer products
under the Cummins Onan brand name including diesel, natural gas, gasoline and alternative-fuel electrical generator sets for use in RVs, commercial vehicles, recreational marine
applications and home stand-by or residential applications.

This
segment continuously explores emerging technologies, such as fuel cells, wind and hybrid solutions and provides integrated power generation products utilizing technologies other
than reciprocating engines. We use our own research and development capabilities as well as leverage business partnerships to develop cost-effective and environmentally sound power
solutions.

Our
customer base for power generation products is highly diversified, with customer groups varying based on their power needs. Western Europe, India, the Middle East, China and Latin
America are our largest geographic markets outside of North America.

This
operating segment competes with a variety of engine manufacturers and generator set assemblers across the world. CAT, Tognum (MTU) and Mitsubishi (MHI) remain our primary
competitors, but we also compete with FG Wilson (Caterpillar group), Kohler, SDMO (Kohler group), Generac and numerous regional generator set assemblers. Our Generator technologies business competes
globally with Emerson Electric Co., Marathon Electric and Meccalte, among others.

Components Segment

Components segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years endedDecember 31,201020092008Percent of consolidated net sales(1)19%18%18%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)(2)16%13%13%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations(2)Defined
as earnings before interest and taxes











Our
Components segment supplies products which complement our Engine segment, including filtration products, turbochargers, aftertreatment systems, intake and exhaust systems and fuel
systems for commercial diesel applications. We manufacture filtration and exhaust systems for on- and off-highway heavy-duty and mid-range equipment,
and we are a supplier of filtration products for industrial and passenger car applications. In addition, we develop aftertreatment and exhaust systems to help our customers meet increasingly stringent
emission standards and fuel systems which to date have primarily supplied our Engine segment and our partner Scania.

Our
Components segment is organized around the following businesses:

•

Filtration—Our filtration business designs and manufactures
filtration, coolant and chemical products. The filtration business offers over 7,000 products including air filters, fuel filters, fuel water separators, lube filters, hydraulic filters, coolant,
diesel exhaust fluid/Adblue, fuel additives and other filtration systems to OEMs, dealers/distributors and end users. Cummins filtration supports a wide customer base in a diverse range of markets
including on-highway, off-highway, oil and gas, agriculture, marine, industrial and light-duty automotive. Globally recognized Fleetguard® branded
products are produced and sold in over 160 countries including North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia. Fleetguard products are available through thousands of distribution
points worldwide.

•

Turbo technologies—Our turbo technologies business designs,
manufactures and markets turbochargers for light-duty, mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel markets with manufacturing facilities in five
countries and sales and distribution worldwide. Turbo technologies provides critical air handling technologies for engines, including variable geometry turbochargers, to meet challenging performance
requirements and worldwide emission standards. The business primarily serves markets in North America, Asia and Europe.

•

Emission solutions—Our emission solutions business is a global
leader in designing, manufacturing and integrating exhaust aftertreatment technology and solutions for the commercial on-and off-highway medium-duty,
heavy-duty and high-horsepower engine markets. Dedicated to innovation and dependability in meeting global emission regulations, emission solutions develops and produces
various emission solutions, which include custom engineering systems and integrated controls, oxidation catalysts, particulate filters, oxides of nitrogen (NOx) reduction systems such as selective
catalytic reduction and NOx adsorbers and engineered components such as dosers, sensors and exhaust. With key operations in Indiana, Wisconsin, China, India, the United Kingdom, Brazil and South
Africa, Cummins emission solutions serves both OEM and engine first fit and retrofit customers.

•

Fuel systems—Our fuel systems business designs and
manufactures new and replacement fuel systems primarily for heavy-duty on-highway diesel engine applications and also remanufactures fuel systems and engine control modules.
Scania and Komatsu are the business' primary external customers. Scania is also our partner in two joint ventures within our fuel systems business. The Cummins-Scania High Pressure
Injection, LLC joint venture currently manufactures fuel systems used by Cummins and Scania while the Cummins-Scania XPI joint venture currently produces advanced technology fuel systems for
medium-and heavy-duty engines.

Customers
of our Components segment generally include our Engine and Distribution segments, truck manufacturers and other OEMs, many of which are also customers of our Engine segment,
such as PACCAR, Volvo, International Truck and Engine, CNH Global N.V., Iveco and other manufacturers that use our components in their product platforms.

Our
Components segment competes with other manufacturers of filtration, exhaust and fuel systems and turbochargers. Our primary competitors in these markets include Donaldson











Company, Inc.,
Clarcor Inc., Mann+Hummel Group, Honeywell International, Borg-Warner, Robert Bosch GmbH, Tenneco Inc., Eberspacher
Holding GmbH & Co. KG and Denso Corporation.

Distribution Segment

Distribution segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years endedDecember 31,201020092008Percent of consolidated net sales(1)14%14%12%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)(2)18%31%18%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations(2)Defined
as earnings before interest and taxes

Our
Distribution segment consists of 19 company-owned and 22 joint venture distributors that service and distribute the full range of our products and services to end-users
at approximately 380 locations in approximately 70 distribution territories. Our company-owned distributors are located
in key markets, including North America, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, India, China, Africa, Russia, Brazil, Singapore and Japan.

The
Distribution segment is organized into four primary geographic regions:

•Asia Pacific,•EMEA,•North and Central America and•South America.

Asia
Pacific and EMEA are composed of seven smaller regional distributor organizations (South Pacific, India, China, Northeast/Southeast Asia, Greater Europe, the Middle East and Africa)
which allow us to better manage these vast geographic territories.

North
and Central America, is mostly comprised of a network of partially-owned distributors. Internationally, our network consists of independent, partially-owned and wholly-owned
distributors. Through this network, we provide parts and service to our customers. These full-service solutions include maintenance contracts, engineering services and integrated products,
where we customize our products to cater to specific needs of end-users. Our distributors also serve and develop dealers, predominantly OEM dealers, in their territories by providing new
products, technical support, tools, training, parts and product information.

In
addition to managing our investments in wholly-owned and partially-owned distributors, our Distribution segment is responsible for managing the performance and capabilities of our
independent distributors. Our Distribution segment serves a highly diverse customer base with approximately 42 percent of their 2010 revenues being generated from the sale of new engines and
power generation equipment, compared to 44 percent in 2009, and the remaining revenue generated by parts and service revenue.

Financial
information about our distributors accounted for under the equity method are incorporated by reference from Note 2, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to ourConsolidated Financial Statements.







In November 2010, we purchased a majority interest in a previously independent North American distributorship. The acquisition was accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting and resulted in an aggregate purchase price of $27 million. The assets of the acquired business were primarily accounts receivable, inventory, and fixed assets.
The transaction generated $1 million of goodwill.

On
January 4, 2010, we acquired the remaining 70 percent interest in Cummins Western Canada (CWC) from our former principal for consideration of approximately
$71 million in order to increase our ownership interests in key portions of the distribution channel. We formed a new partnership with a new distributor principal where we own 80 percent
of CWC and the new distributor principal owns 20 percent. The acquisition was effective on January 1, 2010, and was accounted for as a business combination. The results of the acquired
entity were included in the Distribution operating segment as of the acquisition date including $2 million of goodwill. The assets of the acquired business were primarily inventory, fixed
assets and accounts receivable. See Note 21, "ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES," to theConsolidated Financial Statementsfor additional detail.

Our
distributors compete with distributors or dealers that offer similar products. In many cases, these competing distributors or dealers are owned by, or affiliated with the companies
that are listed above as competitors of our Engine, Power Generation or Components segments. These competitors vary by geographical location.

JOINT VENTURES, ALLIANCES AND NON-WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES

We have entered into a number of joint venture agreements and alliances with business partners around the world. Our joint ventures are
either distribution or manufacturing entities. We also own controlling interests in non-wholly-owned manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries. We have three approximately
80 percent owned entities that are consolidated in the Distribution segment as well as several manufacturing joint ventures in the other operating segments.

In
the event of a change of control of either party to these joint ventures and other strategic alliances, certain consequences may result including automatic termination and liquidation
of the venture, exercise of "put" or "call" rights of ownership by the non-acquired partner, termination or transfer of technology license rights to the non-acquired partner
and increases in component transfer prices to the acquired partner. We will continue to evaluate joint venture and partnership opportunities in order to penetrate new markets, develop new products and
generate manufacturing and operational efficiencies.

Financial
information about our investments in joint ventures and alliances is incorporated by reference from Note 2, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," and Note 24,
"VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES," to theConsolidated Financial Statements.









Our
equity income from these investees was as follows:

Years ended December 31,In millions201020092008Distribution EntitiesNorth American distributors$10132%$10051%$10043%Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda165%126%73%All other distributors31%31%52%Manufacturing EntitiesDongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.9931%3317%5524%Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.4614%3618%3013%Tata Cummins, Ltd.144%53%73%Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd.124%74%84%Komatsu manufacturing alliances113%(2)(1)%31%Cummins Westport, Inc.103%31%63%Valvoline Cummins, Ltd.83%74%21%Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine, LLC(3)(1)%(10)(5)%31%Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd.(16)(5)%(5)(3)%(4)(2)%All other manufacturers206%74%94%Cummins share of net income(1)$321100%$196100%$231100%

(1)This
total represents our share of net income of our equity investees and is exclusive of royalties and interest income from our equity investees. To see
how this amount reconciles to the "equity, royalty and interest income from investees" in theConsolidated Statements of Income, see Note 2,
"INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to ourConsolidated Financial Statements.

Distribution Entities

•North American Distributors—Our distribution channel in North
America includes 12 partially-owned distributors. Our equity interests in these nonconsolidated entities range from 30 percent to 50 percent. We also have an approximate
80 percent ownership interest in three partially owned distributors which we consolidate. While each distributor is a separate legal entity, the business of each is the same as that of our
wholly-owned distributors based in other parts of the world. All of our distributors, irrespective of their legal structure or ownership, offer the full range of our products and services to customers
and end-users in their respective markets.•Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda.—Komatsu Cummins
Chile, Ltda. is a joint venture with Komatsu America Corporation. The joint venture is a distributor that offers the full range of our products and services to customers and
end-users in the Chilean market.

Our
distribution agreements with independent and partially-owned distributors generally have a three-year term and are restricted to specified territories. Our distributors
develop and maintain a network of dealers with which we have no direct relationship. The distributors are permitted to sell other, noncompetitive products only with our consent. We license all of our
distributors to use our name and logo in connection with the sale and service of our products, with no right to assign or sublicense the trademarks, except to authorized dealers, without our consent.
Products are sold to the distributors at standard domestic or international distributor net prices, as applicable. Net prices are wholesale prices we establish to permit our distributors an adequate
margin on their sales. Subject to local laws, we can generally refuse to renew these agreements upon expiration or terminate them upon written notice for inadequate sales, change in principal
ownership and certain other reasons. Distributors also have the right to terminate the agreements upon 60-day notice without cause, or









30-day
notice for cause. Upon termination or failure to renew, we are required to purchase the distributor's current inventory, signage and special tools, and may, at our option purchase
other assets of the distributor, but are under no obligation to do so.

See
further discussion of our distribution network under the Distribution segment section above.

Manufacturing Entities

Manufacturing joint ventures are generally formed with customers and allow us to increase our market penetration in geographic regions,
reduce capital spending, streamline our supply chain management and develop technologies. Our largest manufacturing joint ventures are based in China and are included in the list below. Our engine
manufacturing joint ventures are supplied by our Components segment in the same manner as they supply our wholly-owned Engine segment and Power Generation segment manufacturing facilities. Components
segment joint ventures and wholly owned entities provide fuel system, filtration and turbocharger products that are used in our engines as well as some competitors' products. These joint ventures are
not included in ourConsolidated Financial Statements.

•

Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.—Dongfeng Cummins
Engine Company, Ltd. (DCEC) is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng Automotive Co. Ltd., a subsidiary of Dongfeng Motor Corporation (Dongfeng), one of the largest
medium-duty and heavy-duty truck manufacturers in China. DCEC produces Cummins four- to 13-liter mechanical engines, full-electronic diesel
engines, with a power range from 125 to 545 horsepower, and natural gas engines.

•

Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.—Chongqing
Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Chongqing Machinery and Electric Co. Ltd. The joint venture manufactures several models of our heavy-duty
and high-horsepower diesel engines, primarily serving the industrial and stationary power markets in China.

•

Tata Cummins Ltd.—Tata Cummins Ltd. is a joint
venture in India with Tata Motors Ltd., the largest automotive company in India and a member of the Tata group of companies. This joint venture manufactures the engines in India for use in
trucks manufactured by Tata Motors, as well as for various industrial and power generation applications.

•

Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd.—Shanghai
Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng that manufactures filtration systems.

•

Komatsu manufacturing alliances—Komatsu manufacturing
alliances consists of two manufacturing joint ventures and one design joint venture including two in Japan and one in the U.S. with Komatsu Ltd. The joint ventures manufacture Cummins-designed
medium-duty engines in Japan and Komatsu-designed high-horsepower engines in the United States (U.S.) The industrial engine design joint venture is located in Japan.

•

Cummins Westport, Inc.—Cummins Westport Inc. is a joint
venture in Canada with Westport Innovations Inc. to market and sell automotive spark-ignited natural gas engines worldwide and to participate in joint technology projects on
low-emission technologies.

•

Valvoline Cummins, Ltd.—Valvoline Cummins, Ltd.
is a joint venture in India with Ashland Inc., USA. This joint venture manufactures and distributes lubricants and oil related products in India which are used in automotive and industrial
applications. Products include transmission fluids, hydraulic lubricants, automotive filters, cooling system products, greases and specialty products.

•

Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine, LLC—Cummins
MerCruiser Diesel Marine, LLC is a joint venture in the U.S. with Mercury Marine, a division of Brunswick Corporation, to develop, manufacture and sell recreational marine diesel products,
including engines, sterndrive packages,









inboard
packages, instrument and controls, service systems and replacement and service parts and assemblies, complete integration systems and other related products.•Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd.—Beijing Foton
Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Beijing Foton Motor Co., Ltd., a commercial vehicle manufacturer, which produces two families of Cummins high
performance light-duty diesel engines in Beijing. The engines are used in light-duty commercial trucks, pickup trucks, multipurpose and sport utility vehicles. Certain types of
marine, small construction equipment and industrial applications are also served by these engine families.

Non-Wholly-Owned Manufacturing Subsidiary

We have a controlling interest in Cummins India Ltd. (CIL), which is a publicly listed company on various stock exchanges in
India. CIL produces mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines, as well as generators for the Indian and export markets. CIL also produces compressed natural
gas spark-ignited engines licensed from another of our joint ventures. CIL's net income attributable to Cummins was $46 million, $28 million and $36 million for
2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

SUPPLY

We source our materials and manufactured components from leading suppliers both domestically and internationally. We machine and
assemble some of the components used in our engines and power generation units, including blocks, heads, turbochargers, connecting rods, camshafts, crankshafts, filters, exhaust systems, alternators
and fuel systems. We single source approximately 60 to 70 percent of the total types of parts in our product designs. We have long-term agreements with critical suppliers to assure
the right capacity, delivery and quality. Although we elect to source a relatively high proportion of our total raw materials and
component requirements from sole suppliers, we have established a process to annually review our sourcing strategies with a focus on the reduction of risk, which has led us to dual source critical
components, where possible. We are also developing suppliers in many global or emerging markets to serve our businesses across the globe and provide alternative sources in the event of disruption from
existing suppliers.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own or control a significant number of patents and trademarks relating to the products we manufacture. These patents and trademarks
were granted and registered over a period of years. Although these patents and trademarks are generally considered beneficial to our operations, we do not believe any patent, group of patents, or
trademark (other than our leading brand house trademarks) is considered significant to our business.

SEASONALITY

While individual product lines may experience modest seasonal declines in production, there is no material effect on the demand for the
majority of our products on a quarterly basis with the exception that our Power Generation segment normally experiences seasonal declines in the first quarter due to general declines in construction
spending during this period and our Distribution segment normally experiences seasonal declines in first quarter business activity due to holiday periods in Asia and Australia.

LARGEST CUSTOMERS

We have thousands of customers around the world and have developed long-standing business relationships with many of them.
We have long-term heavy-duty engine supply agreements with PACCAR and Volvo Trucks North America. We have mid-range supply agreements with PACCAR, as











BACKLOG

As a result of the improving economy in 2010, our lead times increased from their lower levels during the recession. While we have
supply agreements with some truck and off-highway equipment OEMs, most of our business is transacted through open purchase orders. These open orders are historically subject to
month-to-month releases and are subject to cancellation on reasonable notice without cancellation charges and therefore are not considered firm.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSE

Our research and development program is focused on product improvements, innovations and cost reductions for our customers. We expense
research and development expenditures, net of contract reimbursements, when incurred. Research and development expenses, net of contract reimbursements, were $402 million in 2010,
$362 million in 2009 and $422 million in 2008. Contract reimbursements were $68 million in 2010, $92 million in 2009 and $61 million in 2008.

For
2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately $38 million, $151 million and $116 million or 9 percent, 42 percent and 27 percent respectively, were
directly related to compliance with 2010 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) emission standards. For 2010, approximately $36 million or 9 percent was directly related to compliance
with 2013 EPA emission standards. In 2010, we increased research, development and engineering expenses as we continued to invest in future critical technologies and products. We will continue to make
investments to improve our current technologies, to continue to meet the future emission requirements around the world and improve fuel economy.

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

Sustainability

We continue to be a leader in sustainable business development and practices. We have invested significantly in new products and
technologies designed to further lower emission and increase fuel efficiency from our products. We have increased our commitment to addressing the global impact of climate change through the
structured approach of our 10 climate change principles developed last year that address ways we are becoming a greater part of the solution. We have worked collaboratively with customers to improve
their fuel economy and reduce their carbon footprint. We have significantly reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emission from our facilities through a strong energy efficiency program and we met our
publically stated goal of 25 percent intensity reduction after complete 2010 goal-year











environmental
data was verified. We have taken leadership positions on climate change by articulating our positions on key public policy issues surrounding climate change. For the sixth consecutive
year, we were named to the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index, which recognizes the top 10 percent of the world's largest 2,500 companies in economic, environmental and social leadership. Our
sustainability report for 2010 is available on our website at www.cummins.com.

Product Environmental Compliance

Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements that directly or indirectly impose standards governing
emission and noise. Our products comply with all current emission standards that the EPA, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) and other state and international regulatory agencies have
established for heavy-duty on-highway diesel and gas engines and off-highway engines. Our ability to comply with these and future emission standards is an essential
element in maintaining our leadership position in regulated markets. We have made, and will continue to make, significant capital and research expenditures to comply with these standards. Failure to
comply with these standards could result in adverse effects on our future financial results.

EPA Engine Certifications

The current on-highway emission standards came into effect in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. To meet the 2010 U.S. EPA
heavy-duty
on-highway emission standards, we used an evolution of our proven 2007 technology solution to maintain power and torque with substantial fuel economy improvement and maintenance intervals
comparable with our 2007 compliant engines. We offer a complete lineup of on-highway engines to meet the near-zero emission standards. Mid-range and
heavy-duty engines for EPA 2010 require nitrogen oxide (NOx) aftertreatment. NOx reduction is achieved by an integrated technology solution comprised of the XPI High Pressure Common Rail
fuel system, Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology, next-generation cooled exhaust gas recirculation (EGR), advanced electronic controls, proven air handling and the Cummins
Particulate Filter. The EPA and CARB have certified that our engines meet the 2010 emission requirements. Emission standards in international markets, including Europe, Japan, Mexico, Australia,
Brazil, India and China are becoming more stringent. We believe that our experience in meeting U.S. emission standards leaves us well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in these markets as
the need for emission control capability grows.

Federal
and California regulations require manufacturers to report failures of emission-related components to the EPA and CARB when the failure rate reaches a specified level. At higher
failure rates, a product recall may be required. In 2010, we submitted eleven reports to the EPA relating to software corrections in the engine control module and to the exhaust aftertreatment system.
The software corrections related to the engine control module and exhaust aftertreatment system necessitated the campaigns of approximately 11,400 and 6,310 engines, respectively.

Other Environmental Statutes and Regulations

Expenditures for environmental control activities and environmental remediation projects at our facilities in the U.S. have not been a
substantial portion of our annual capital outlays and are not expected to be material in 2011. Except as follows, we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with laws and regulations
applicable to our plants and operations.

In
the U.S., pursuant to notices received from federal and state agencies and/or defendant parties in site environmental contribution actions, we have been identified as a potentially
responsible party (PRP) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended or similar state laws, at approximately 20 waste disposal sites. Based upon
our experiences at similar sites we believe that our aggregate future remediation costs will not be significant. We have











established
accruals that we believe are adequate for our expected future liability with respect to these sites.

In
addition, we have four other sites where we are working with governmental authorities on remediation projects. The costs for these remediation projects are not expected to be
material.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 39,200 persons worldwide. Approximately 15,500 of our employees worldwide are
represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2011 and 2015. For a discussion of the effects of our 2008 and 2009 restructuring actions on employment, see
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 22, "RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES," to ourConsolidated Financial
Statementsin this Form 10-K.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information electronically with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "SEC"). You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and
information statements and other information that issuers (including Cummins) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's internet site is www.sec.gov.

Our
internet site is www.cummins.com. You can access our Investors and Media webpage through our internet site, by clicking on the heading "Investors and Media" followed by the "Investor
Relations" link. We make available, free of charge, on or through our Investors and Media webpage, our proxy statements, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

We
also have a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access our Governance Documents webpage through our internet site, www.cummins.com, by clicking on the heading "Investors and Media,"
followed by the "Investor Relations" link and then the topic heading of "Governance Documents" within the "Corporate Governance" heading. Code of Conduct, Committee Charters and other governance
documents are included at this site. Cummins Code of Conduct applies to all employees, regardless of their position or the country in which they work. It also applies to the employees of any
entity owned or controlled by us. We will post any amendments to the Code of Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock
Exchange LLC (NYSE), on our internet site. The information on Cummins internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.









EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Following are the names and ages of the executive officers of Cummins Inc., their positions with us as of January 31,
2011, and summaries of their backgrounds and business experience:





Name and AgePresent Cummins Inc. position andyear appointed to positionPrincipal position during the pastfive years other than Cummins Inc.position currently held

Theodore M. Solso (63)Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (2000)

N. Thomas Linebarger (48)President and Chief Operating Officer (2008)Executive Vice President and President—Power Generation (2005-2008)

Pamela L. Carter (61)Vice President and President—Distribution Business (2008)President—Cummins Filtration (2006-2008), President—Fleetguard (2005-2006)

Steven M. Chapman (56)Group Vice President—China and Russia (2009)Vice President—Emerging Markets and Businesses (2005-2009)

Richard J. Freeland (53)Vice President and President—Engine Business (2010)Vice President and President—Components Group (2008-2010), Vice President and President—Worldwide Distribution Business (2005-2008)

Mark R. Gerstle (55)Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer (2008)Vice President—Corporate Quality and Chief Risk Officer (2005-2008)

Richard E. Harris (58)Vice President—Chief Investment Officer (2008)Vice President—Treasurer (2003-2008)

Marsha L. Hunt (47)Vice President—Corporate Controller (2003)

Marya M. Rose (48)Vice President—General Counsel and Corporate Secretary (2001)

Livingston L. Satterthwaite (50)Vice President and President—Power Generation (2008)Vice President—Generator Set Business (2003-2008)

Anant Talaulicar (49)Vice President and President—Components Group (2010)Vice President and Managing Director—India ABO (2004-2010), Chairman and Managing Director—Cummins India Ltd. (2003-2010)

John C. Wall (59)Vice President—Chief Technical Officer (2000)

Patrick J. Ward (47)Vice President—Chief Financial Officer (2008)Vice President—Engine Business Controller (2005-2008)









Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is elected annually by our Board of Directors and holds office until the first meeting of the Board of Directors
following the annual meeting of the shareholders. Other officers are appointed by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, are ratified by our Board of Directors and hold office for such period as
the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors may prescribe.

