ITEM 1.    Business

OVERVIEW

Cummins Inc. was founded in 1919 as a corporation in Columbus, Indiana, as one of the first diesel engine manufacturers. We are
a global power leader that designs, manufactures, distributes and services diesel and natural gas engines and engine-related component products, including filtration, aftertreatment, turbochargers,
fuel systems, controls systems, air handling systems and electric power generation systems. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors and other customers worldwide.
We serve our customers through a network of approximately 600 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 6,500 dealer locations in more than 190 countries and territories.

OPERATING SEGMENTS

We have four complementary operating segments: Engine, Components, Power Generation and Distribution. These segments share technology,
customers, strategic partners, brand recognition and our distribution network in order to compete more efficiently and effectively in their respective markets. In each of our operating segments, we
compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our products compete primarily on the basis of performance, fuel economy, speed of
delivery, quality, customer support and price. Financial information about our operating segments, including geographic information, is incorporated by reference from Note 22, "OPERATING
SEGMENTS," to ourConsolidated Financial Statements.

Engine Segment

Engine segment sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years endedDecember 31,201220112010Percent of consolidated net sales(1)50%52%49%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)54%53%48%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations

Our
Engine segment manufactures and markets a broad range of diesel and natural gas powered engines under the Cummins brand name, as well as certain customer brand names, for the heavy-
and medium-duty truck, bus, recreational vehicle (RV), light-duty automotive, agricultural, construction, mining, marine, oil and gas, rail and governmental equipment markets.
We offer a wide variety of engine products including:

•Engines with a displacement range of 2.8 to 91 liters and horsepower ranging from 48 to 3,500;•New parts and service, as well as remanufactured parts and engines, through our extensive distribution network and•The newly developed light-duty diesel engine, which will be sold through the light construction vehicle,
pick-up, bus and certain medium-duty truck markets.

Our
Engine segment is organized by engine displacement size and serves these end-user markets:

•Heavy-Duty Truck—We manufacture diesel engines
that range from 310 to 620 horsepower serving global heavy-duty truck customers worldwide.









•Medium-Duty Truck and Bus—We manufacture
medium-duty diesel engines ranging from 150 to 400 horsepower serving medium-duty and inter-city delivery truck customers worldwide, with key markets including
North America, Latin America, Europe and Mexico. We also provide diesel or natural gas engines for school buses, transit buses and shuttle buses worldwide, with key markets including North America,
Europe, Latin America and Asia.•Light-Duty Automotive and RV—We manufacture 320 to
385 horsepower diesel engines for Chrysler's heavy-duty chassis cab and pickup trucks and 300 to 600 horsepower diesel engines for Class A motor homes (RVs), primarily in North
America.•Industrial—We provide mid-range,
heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines that range from 31 to 3,500 horsepower for a wide variety of equipment in the construction, agricultural, mining, rail, government, oil
and gas, power generation and commercial and recreational marine applications throughout the world. Across these markets we have major customers in North America, Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA),
China, Korea, Japan, Latin America, India, Russia, Southeast Asia, South Pacific and Mexico.

The
principal customers of our heavy- and medium-duty truck engines include truck manufacturers such as PACCAR Inc (PACCAR), Daimler Trucks North America, Ford Motor Company,
International Truck, MAN Latin America and Volvo. We sell our industrial engines to manufacturers of construction, agricultural and marine equipment, including Komatsu, Belaz, Hyundai, Hitachi and
JLG. The principal customers of our light-duty on-highway engines are Chrysler and manufacturers of RVs.

In
the markets served by our Engine segment, we compete with independent engine manufacturers as well as OEMs who manufacture engines for their own products. Our primary
competitors in North America are International Truck and Engine Corporation (Engine Division), Detroit Diesel Corporation, Caterpillar Inc. (CAT), Volvo Powertrain, Ford Motor Company and Hino
Power. Our
primary competitors in international markets vary from country to country, with local manufacturers generally predominant in each geographic market. Other engine manufacturers in international markets
include Weichai Power Co. Ltd., MAN Nutzfahrzeuge AG (MAN), Fiat Power Systems, GuangxiYuchai Group, GE Jenbacher, Tognum AG, CAT, Volvo, Yanmar Co., Ltd. and Deutz AG.

Components Segment

Components segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years endedDecember 31,201220112010Percent of consolidated net sales(1)19%18%19%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)18%18%16%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations

Our
Components segment supplies products which complement our Engine segment, including filtration products, turbochargers, aftertreatment systems and fuel systems for commercial diesel
applications. We manufacture filtration systems for on- and off-highway heavy-duty and mid-range equipment, and we are a supplier of filtration products
for industrial and passenger car applications. In addition, we develop aftertreatment systems and turbochargers to help our customers meet increasingly stringent emission standards and fuel systems
which to date have primarily supplied our Engine segment and our joint venture partner Scania.









Our
Components segment is organized around the following businesses:

•

Emission solutions—Our emission solutions business is a global
leader in designing, manufacturing and integrating aftertreatment technology and solutions for the commercial on-and off-highway medium-duty, heavy-duty
and high-horsepower engine markets. Our emission solutions business develops and produces various emission solutions, including custom engineering systems and integrated controls,
oxidation catalysts, particulate filters, oxides of nitrogen (NOx) reduction systems such as selective catalytic reduction and NOx adsorbers and engineered components such as dosers and sensors. Our
emissions solutions business primarily serves markets in North America, Europe, Brazil and China and serves both OEM and engine first fit and retrofit customers.

•

Turbo technologies—Our turbo technologies business designs,
manufactures and markets turbochargers for light-duty, mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel markets with manufacturing facilities in five
countries and sales and distribution worldwide. Our turbo technologies business provides critical air handling technologies for engines, including variable geometry turbochargers, to meet challenging
performance requirements and worldwide emission standards. Our turbo technologies business primarily serves markets in North America, Europe and Asia.

•

Filtration—Our filtration business designs and manufactures
filtration, coolant and chemical products. The filtration business offers over 7,000 products including air filters, fuel filters, fuel water separators, lube filters, hydraulic filters, coolant,
diesel exhaust fluid, fuel additives and other filtration systems to OEMs, dealers/distributors and end users. Our filtration business supports a wide customer base in a diverse range of markets
including on-highway, off-highway, oil and gas, agriculture, marine, industrial and light-duty automotive. We produce and sell globally recognized
Fleetguard® branded products in over 160 countries including countries in North America, Europe, South America, Asia, Australia and Africa. Fleetguard products are available through
thousands of distribution points worldwide.

•

Fuel systems—Our fuel systems business designs and
manufactures new and replacement fuel systems primarily for heavy-duty on-highway diesel engine applications and also remanufactures fuel systems and engine control modules.
Scania and Komatsu are our fuel systems business' primary external customers. Scania is also our partner in two joint ventures within our fuel systems business. The Cummins-Scania High Pressure
Injection, LLC joint venture currently manufactures fuel systems used internally and by Scania while the Cummins-Scania XPI joint venture currently produces advanced technology fuel systems for
medium- and heavy-duty engines used internally and by Scania.

Customers
of our Components segment generally include our Engine and Distribution segments, truck manufacturers and other OEMs, many of which are also customers of our Engine segment,
such as PACCAR, Daimler, Volvo, Komatsu, Ford and other manufacturers that use our components in their product platforms.

Our
Components segment competes with other manufacturers of filtration, turbochargers and fuel systems. Our primary competitors in these markets include Robert Bosch GmbH,
Donaldson Company, Inc., Clarcor Inc., Mann+Hummel Group, Honeywell International, Borg-Warner, Tenneco Inc., Eberspacher Holding GmbH & Co. KG and Denso
Corporation.

On
July 18, 2012, we acquired the doser technology business assets from Hilite Germany GmbH (Hilite) in a $176 million cash transaction. The acquisition was
accounted for as a business combination with the
majority of the purchase price being allocated to goodwill and technology and customer related intangible assets. The results of the acquired entity for 2012 were included in the Components









operating
segment. See Note 2, "ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES," to ourConsolidated Financial Statementsfor additional detail.

In
the second quarter of 2011, we sold certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business which manufactures exhaust products and select components for emission systems for a variety
of applications not core to our other product offerings. This business was historically included in our Components segment. The sales price was $123 million. We recognized a gain on the sale of
$68 million ($37 million after-tax), which included a goodwill allocation of $19 million. The gain was excluded from segment results as it was not considered in our
evaluation of operating results for the year ended December 31, 2011.

During
the fourth quarter of 2011, we sold certain assets and liabilities of our light-duty filtration business which manufactures light-duty automotive and
industrial filtration solutions. The sales price was $90 million and included a note receivable from the buyer of approximately $1 million. There are no earnouts or other contingencies
associated with the sales price. We recognized a gain on the sale of $53 million ($33 million after-tax), which included a goodwill allocation of $6 million. The gain
was excluded from segment results as it was not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year ended December 31, 2011.

Power Generation Segment

Power Generation segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years endedDecember 31,201220112010Percent of consolidated net sales(1)15%16%18%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)12%14%18%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations

Our
Power Generation segment designs and manufactures most of the components that make up power generation systems, including engines, controls, alternators, transfer switches and
switchgear. This segment is a global provider of power generation systems, components and services for a diversified customer base, including the
following:

•Standby power solutions for customers who rely on uninterrupted sources of power to meet the needs of their customers.•Distributed generation power solutions for customers with less reliable electrical power infrastructures, typically in
developing countries. In addition, our power solutions provide an alternative source of generating capacity located close to its point of use, which is purchased by utilities, independent power
producers and large power customers for use as prime or peaking power.•Mobile power solutions, which provide a secondary source of power (other than drivetrain power) for mobile applications.

In
the first quarter of 2012, our Power Generation segment reorganized its reporting structure to include the following businesses:

•Power products—Our power products business manufactures
generators for commercial and consumer applications ranging from two kilowatts (kW) to one megawatt (MW) under the Cummins Power Generation and Cummins Onan brands.









•Power systems—Our power systems business manufactures and
sells diesel fuel-based generator sets over one MW, paralleling systems and transfer switches for critical protection and distributed generation applications. We also offer integrated
systems that consist of generator sets, power transfer and paralleling switchgear for applications such as data centers, health care facilities and waste water treatment plants.•Generator technologies—Our generator technologies business
designs, manufactures, sells and services A/C generator/alternator products internally as well as to other generator set assemblers. Our products are sold under the Stamford, AVK and Markon brands and
range in output from 0.6 kilovolt-amperes (kVA) to 30,000 kVA.•Power solutions—Our power solutions business provides natural
gas fuel-based turnkey solutions for distributed generation and energy management applications in the range of 300-2000 kW products. The business also serves the oil and gas
segment and a global rental account for diesel and gas generator sets.

This
segment continuously explores emerging technologies and provides integrated power generation products using technologies other than reciprocating engines. We use our own research
and development capabilities as well as those of our business partnerships to develop cost-effective and environmentally sound power solutions.

Our
customer base for our power generation products is highly diversified, with customer groups varying based on their power needs. India, China, the United Kingdom (U.K.), Western
Europe, Latin America and the Middle East are our largest geographic markets outside of North America.

Power
Generation competes with a variety of engine manufacturers and generator set assemblers across the world. Our primary compeitiors are CAT, Tognum (MTU) and Kohler/SDMO (Kohler
Group), but we also compete with GE Jenbacher, FG Wilson (CAT group), Generac, Mitsubishi (MHI) and numerous regional generator set assemblers. Our generator technologies business competes globally
with Emerson Electric Co., Marathon Electric and Meccalte, among others.

Distribution Segment

Distribution segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years endedDecember 31,201220112010Percent of consolidated net sales(1)16%14%14%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)16%15%18%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations

Our
Distribution segment consists of 23 company-owned and 18 joint venture distributors that service and distribute the full range of our products and services to end-users
at approximately 400 locations in approximately 80 distribution territories. Our company-owned distributors are located in key markets, including North America, Australia, Europe, the Middle East,
India, China, Africa, Russia, Japan, Brazil, Singapore and Central America, while our joint venture distributors are located in North America, South America, Africa, China, Thailand, Singapore and
Vietnam.

The
Distribution segment consists of the following businesses which service and/or distribute the full range of our products and
services:

•Parts and filtration,•Power generation,









•Engines and•Service.

The
Distribution segment is organized into five primary geographic regions:

•Asia Pacific,•Europe and the Middle East (EME),•North and Central America,•Africa and•South America.

Asia
Pacific and EME are composed of six smaller regional distributor organizations (South Pacific, Greater Europe, the Middle East, China, India and Northeast/Southeast Asia) which
allow us to better manage these vast geographic territories.

North
and Central America are mostly comprised of a network of partially-owned distributors. Internationally, our network consists of independent, partially-owned and wholly-owned
distributors. Through these networks, we provide parts and service to our customers. These full-service solutions include maintenance contracts, engineering services and integrated
products, where we customize our products to cater to specific needs of end-users. Our distributors also serve and develop dealers, predominantly OEM dealers, in their territories by
providing new products, technical support, tools, training, parts and product information.

In
addition to managing our involvement with our wholly-owned and partially-owned distributors, our Distribution segment is responsible for managing the performance and capabilities of
our independent distributors. Our Distribution segment serves a highly diverse customer base with approximately 45 percent of its 2012 sales being generated from new engines and power
generation equipment, compared to 47 percent in 2011, with its remaining sales generated by parts and filtration and service revenue.

Financial
information about our distributors accounted for under the equity method are incorporated by reference from Note 3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to ourConsolidated Financial Statements.

Our
distributors compete with distributors or dealers that offer similar products. In many cases, these competing distributors or dealers are owned by, or affiliated with the companies
that are listed above as competitors of our Engine, Components or Power Generation segments. These competitors vary by geographical location.

In
July 2012, we acquired an additional 45 percent interest in Cummins Central Power from the former principal for consideration of approximately $20 million. The
acquisition was accounted for as a business combination, with the results of the acquired entity included in the Distribution operating segment in the third quarter of 2012. Distribution segment
results also included a $7 million gain, as we were required to re-measure our pre-existing 35 percent ownership interest in Cummins Central Power to fair value
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United State of America (GAAP). See Note 2, "ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES," to ourConsolidated
Financial Statementsfor additional detail.

JOINT VENTURES, ALLIANCES AND NON-WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES

We have entered into a number of joint venture agreements and alliances with business partners around the world. Our joint ventures are
either distribution or manufacturing entities. We also own controlling interests in non-wholly-owned manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries. Seven entities, in









which
we own more than a 50 percent equity interest, are consolidated in our Distribution segment results as well as several manufacturing joint ventures in the other operating segments.

In
the event of a change of control of either party to certain of these joint ventures and other strategic alliances, certain consequences may result including automatic termination and
liquidation of the venture, exercise of "put" or "call" rights of ownership by the non-acquired partner, termination or transfer of technology license rights to the
non-acquired partner and increases in component transfer prices to the acquired partner. We will continue to evaluate joint venture and partnership opportunities in order to penetrate new
markets, develop new products and generate manufacturing and operational efficiencies.

Financial
information about our investments in joint ventures and alliances is incorporated by reference from Note 3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to theConsolidated Financial Statements.

Our
equity income from these investees was as follows:

Years ended December 31,In millions201220112010Distribution EntitiesNorth American distributors$14742%$13436%$10132%Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda.268%226%165%All other distributors41%41%31%Manufacturing EntitiesChongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.6118%6818%4614%Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.5215%8021%9931%Cummins Westport, Inc.144%144%103%Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd.134%154%124%Tata Cummins, Ltd.113%144%144%Valvoline Cummins, Ltd.82%72%83%Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd.51%(7)(2)%(16)(5)%Komatsu manufacturing alliances(3)(1)%31%113%All other manufacturers93%215%175%Cummins share of net income(1)$347100%$375100%$321100%

(1)This
total represents our share of net income of our equity investees and is exclusive of royalties and interest income from our equity investees. To see
how this amount reconciles to "Equity, royalty and interest income from investees" in theConsolidated Statements of Income, see Note 3,
"INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to ourConsolidated Financial Statements.

Distribution Entities

•North American Distributors—Our distribution channel in North
America includes 11 unconsolidated partially-owned distributors. Our equity interests in these nonconsolidated entities range from 30 percent to 50 percent. We also have more than a
50 percent ownership interest in four partially owned distributors which we consolidate. While each distributor is a separate legal entity, the business of each is substantially the same as
that of our wholly-owned distributors based in other parts of the world. All of our distributors, irrespective of their legal structure or ownership, offer the full range of our products and services
to customers and end-users in their respective markets.•Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda.—Komatsu Cummins
Chile, Ltda. is a joint venture with Komatsu America Corporation. The joint venture is a distributor that offers the full range of our products and services to customers and
end-users in the Chilean and Peruvian markets.











Our distribution agreements with independent and partially-owned distributors generally have a renewable three-year term and are restricted to
specified territories. Our distributors develop and maintain a network of dealers with which we have no direct relationship. Our distributors are permitted to sell other, noncompetitive products only
with our consent. We license all of our distributors to use our name and logo in connection with the sale and service of our products, with no right to assign or sublicense the trademarks, except to
authorized dealers, without our consent. Products are sold to the distributors at standard domestic or international distributor net prices, as applicable. Net prices are wholesale prices we establish
to permit our distributors an adequate margin on their sales. Subject to local laws, we can generally refuse to renew these agreements upon expiration or terminate them upon written notice for
inadequate sales, change in principal ownership and certain other reasons. Distributors also have the right to terminate the agreements upon 60-day notice without cause, or
30-day notice for cause. Upon termination or failure to renew, we are required to purchase the distributor's current inventory, signage and special tools, and may, at our option purchase
other assets of the distributor, but are under no obligation to do so.

See
further discussion of our distribution network under the Distribution segment section above.

Manufacturing Entities

Our manufacturing joint ventures have generally been formed with customers and generally are intended to allow us to increase our
market penetration in geographic regions, reduce capital spending, streamline our supply chain management and develop technologies. Our largest manufacturing joint ventures are based in China and are
included in the list below. Our engine manufacturing joint ventures are supplied by our Components segment in the same manner as it supplies our wholly-owned Engine segment and Power Generation
segment manufacturing facilities. Our Components segment joint ventures and wholly owned entities provide fuel system, filtration and turbocharger products that are used in our engines as well as some
competitors' products. The results and investments in our joint ventures in which we have 50 percent or less ownership interest are included in "Equity, royalty and interest income from
investees" and "Investments and advances related to equity method investees" in ourConsolidated Statements of IncomeandConsolidated Balance Sheets,
respectively.

•

Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.—Chongqing
Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. (CCEC) is a joint venture in China with Chongqing Machinery and Electric Co. Ltd. This joint venture manufactures several models of our
heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines, primarily serving the industrial and stationary power markets in China.

•

Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.—Dongfeng Cummins
Engine Company, Ltd. (DCEC) is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng Automotive Co. Ltd., a subsidiary of Dongfeng Motor Corporation (Dongfeng), one of the largest
medium-duty and heavy-duty truck manufacturers in China. DCEC produces Cummins 4- to 13-liter mechanical engines, full-electronic diesel
engines, with a power range from 125 to 545 horsepower, and natural gas engines.

•

Cummins Westport, Inc.—Cummins Westport, Inc. is
a joint venture in Canada with Westport Innovations Inc. to market and sell medium-duty automotive spark-ignited natural gas engines worldwide and to participate in joint technology
projects on low-emission technologies.

•

Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co.,
Ltd.—Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng that manufactures filtration systems.

•

Tata Cummins, Ltd.—Tata
Cummins Ltd. is a joint venture in India with Tata Motors Ltd., the largest automotive company in India and a member of the Tata group of companies. This joint venture manufactures
engines in India for use in trucks manufactured by Tata Motors, as well as for various industrial and power generation applications.









•

Valvoline
Cummins, Ltd.—Valvoline Cummins, Ltd. is a joint venture in India with Ashland Inc., USA. This joint venture
manufactures and distributes lubricants and oil related products in India which are used in automotive and industrial applications. Products include transmission fluids, hydraulic lubricants,
automotive filters, cooling system products, greases and specialty products.

•

Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co.,
Ltd.—Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Beijing Foton Motor Co., Ltd., a
commercial vehicle manufacturer, which produces ISF 2.8 liter and ISF 3.8 liter families of Cummins high performance light-duty diesel engines in Beijing. These engines are
used in light-duty commercial trucks, pickup trucks, multipurpose and sport utility vehicles in China, Brazil and Russia. Certain types of marine, small construction equipment and
industrial applications are also served by these engine families.

•

Komatsu manufacturing
alliances—Komatsu manufacturing alliances consists of two manufacturing joint ventures and one design joint venture including Komatsu
Cummins Engine Company (KCEC) in Japan and Cummins Komatsu Engine Company (CKEC) in the United States (U.S.) with Komatsu Ltd. These joint ventures manufacture Cummins-designed
medium-duty engines in Japan and Komatsu-designed high-horsepower engines in the U.S. The industrial engine design joint venture is located in Japan.

•

Cummins-Scania XPI
Manufacturing, LLC—Cummins-Scania XPI Manufacturing, LLC is a joint venture in the United States with Scania
Holding, Inc. This joint venture manufactures several models of advanced fuel systems for heavy-duty and midrange diesel engines.

•

Cummins Olayan
Energy Ltd.—Cummins Olayan Energy Ltd. is a joint venture in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia with General Contracting Company to
operate certain rental power generation equipment, which is primarily utilized within the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

•

Guangxi Cummins Industrial
Power Co., Ltd.—Guangxi Cummins Industrial Power Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Guangxi LiuGong
Machinery Co. This joint venture manufactures 6.7 liter and 9.3 liter diesel engines for use in various construction equipment.

•

Fleetguard Filters
Private, Ltd.—Fleetguard Filters Private, Ltd. is a joint venture in India with Perfect Sealing System Private Limited that
manufactures and sells filtration systems primarily for commercial vehicle applications.

•

Cummins MerCruiser Diesel
Marine, LLC—Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine, LLC (CMD) was a joint venture in the U.S. with Mercury Marine, a division of
Brunswick Corporation, to develop, manufacture and sell recreational marine diesel products, including engines, sterndrive packages, inboard packages, instrument and controls, service systems and
replacement and service parts and assemblies, complete integration systems and other related products. In April 2012, we executed our plans to dissolve the joint venture and to transition to a
strategic supply arrangement between the two companies to more effectively and efficiently serve customers in the global diesel marine market. All business activities were moved from CMD to the parent
companies at the time of the dissolution. We will continue to use Mercury Marine drives and control systems in conjunction with its extensive offering of mid-range and
heavy-duty marine engines. The dissolution of the joint venture did not have a significant impact on our financial results.

Non-Wholly-Owned Subsidiary

We have a controlling interest in Cummins India Ltd. (CIL), which is a publicly listed company on various stock exchanges in
India. CIL produces mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines, generators for the Indian and export markets and natural gas spark-ignited engines for power
generation, automotive and industrial applications. CIL also has distribution and power generation









operations.
CIL's net income attributable to Cummins was $42 million, $44 million and $46 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

SUPPLY

The performance of the end-to-end supply chain, extending through to our suppliers, is foundational to our
ability to meet customers' expectations and support long-term growth. In order to ensure we meet the needs of our customers, we are committed to having a robust strategy for how we select
and manage our suppliers.

We
have a strategic sourcing policy that guides decisions on what we make, when we establish supplier partnerships and what we purchase. Today we machine and assemble strategic
components used in our engines and power generation units, including blocks, heads, turbochargers, connecting rods, camshafts, crankshafts, filters, alternators and fuel systems. We source externally
purchased material and manufactured components from leading suppliers both domestically and internationally. Many suppliers are managed though long-term agreements that assure capacity,
delivery, quality and cost requirements are met over an extended period. We have a "take or pay" contract with an emission solutions business supplier requiring us to purchase approximately
$73 million annually through 2018. Approximately 60 to 70 percent of the total types of parts in our product designs are single sourced. Although we elect to source a relatively high
proportion of our total raw materials and components from sole suppliers, we have an established annual sourcing strategy process that evaluates risk. This annual review process has led us to begin
increasing our use of dual sourcing to both minimize risk and increase supply chain responsiveness.

Other
important elements of our sourcing strategy include:

•working with suppliers to measure and improve their environmental footprint;•selecting and managing suppliers to comply with our supplier code of conduct and•assuring our suppliers do not use restricted or prohibited materials in our products.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own or control a significant number of patents and trademarks relating to the products we manufacture. These patents and trademarks
were granted and registered over a period of years. Although these patents and trademarks are generally considered beneficial to our operations, we do not believe any patent, group of patents, or
trademark (other than our leading brand house trademarks) is significant to our business.

SEASONALITY

While individual product lines may experience modest seasonal variation in production, there is no material effect on the demand for
the majority of our products on a quarterly basis with the exception that our Power Generation segment normally experiences seasonal declines in the first quarter due to general declines in
construction spending during this period and our Distribution segment normally experiences seasonal declines in its first quarter business activity due to holiday periods in Asia and Australia.

LARGEST CUSTOMERS

We have thousands of customers around the world and have developed long-standing business relationships with many of them.
PACCAR is our largest customer, accounting for approximately 13 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2012, compared to approximately 12 percent in 2011 and 7 percent in 2010.
We have long-term supply agreements with PACCAR for our heavy-duty ISX 15 liter









and
ISX 11.9 liter engines and our ISL 9 liter mid-range engine. While a significant number of our sales to PACCAR are under long-term supply agreements, these agreements
provide for particular engine requirements for specific vehicle models and not a specific volume of engines. PACCAR is our only customer accounting for more than 10 percent of our net sales in
2012. The loss of this customer or a significant decline in the production level of PACCAR vehicles that use our engines would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
condition. We have been an engine supplier to PACCAR for over 68 years. A summary of principal customers for each operating segment is included in our segment discussion.

BACKLOG

Our 2012 lead times for the majority of our businesses improved from their 2011 levels. While we have supply agreements with some truck
and off-highway equipment OEMs, most of our business is transacted through open purchase orders. These open orders are historically subject to month-to-month
releases and are subject to cancellation on reasonable notice without cancellation charges and therefore are not considered firm.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSE

In 2012, we increased our research, development and engineering expenses as we continued to invest in future critical technologies and
products. We will continue to make investments to improve our current technologies, continue to meet the future emission requirements around the world and improve fuel economy.

Our
research and development program is focused on product improvements, innovations and cost reductions for our customers. Research and development expenditures include salaries,
contractor fees, building costs, utilities, administrative expenses and allocation of corporate costs and are expensed, net of contract reimbursements, when incurred. Research and development
expenses, net of contract reimbursements, were $721 million in 2012, $621 million in 2011 and $402 million in 2010. Contract reimbursements were $86 million in 2012,
$75 million in 2011 and $68 million in 2010.

For
2011 and 2010, approximately $1 million and $38 million or less than 1 percent and 9 percent, respectively, of our research and development expenditures
were directly related to compliance with 2010 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) emission standards. For 2012, 2011 and 2010,









approximately
$101 million, $104 million and $36 million or 14 percent, 17 percent and 9 percent, of our research and development expenditures were directly
related to compliance with 2013 EPA emission standards.

ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

Product Environmental Compliance

Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements that directly or indirectly impose standards governing
emission and noise. We have substantially increased our global environmental compliance presence and expertise to better prepare for, understand and ultimately meet emerging product environmental
regulations around the world. Our products comply with all current emission standards that the European Union (EU), EPA, the
California Air Resources Board (CARB) and other state and international regulatory agencies have established for heavy-duty on-highway diesel and gas engines and
off-highway engines. Our ability to comply with these and future emission standards is an essential element in maintaining our leadership position in regulated markets. We have made, and
will continue to make, significant capital and research expenditures to comply with these standards. Our failure to comply with these standards could result in adverse effects on our future financial
results.

EU and EPA Engine Certifications

The current on-highway emission standards came into effect in the EU on October 1, 2008 (Euro V) and
on January 1, 2010 for the EPA. To meet the more stringent heavy-duty on-highway emission standards, we used an evolution of our proven selective catalytic reduction
(SCR) and exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) technology solutions and refined them for the EU and EPA certified engines to maintain power and torque with substantial fuel economy improvement and
maintenance intervals comparable with our previous compliant engines. We offer a complete lineup of on-highway engines to meet the near-zero emission standards.
Mid-range and heavy-duty engines for EU and EPA require NOx aftertreatment. NOx reduction is achieved by an integrated technology solution comprised of the XPI High Pressure
Common Rail fuel system, SCR technology, next-generation cooled EGR, advanced









electronic
controls, proven air handling and the Cummins Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF). The EU, EPA, and CARB have certified that our engines meet the current emission requirements. Emission
standards in international markets, including Japan, Mexico, Australia, Brazil, Russia, India and China are becoming more stringent. We believe that our experience in meeting the EU and EPA emission
standards leaves us well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in these markets as the need for emission control capability grows.

We
have received certification from the EPA that we have met both the EPA 2013 and 2014 GHG regulations and rules. The EPA 2013 regulations add the requirement of On-Board
Diagnostics, which were introduced on the ISX15 in 2010, across the full on-highway product line in 2013 in addition to maintaining the same near-zero emission levels of NOx
and Particulate Matter (PM) required in 2010. On-Board Diagnostics provide enhanced service capability with standardized diagnostic trouble codes, service tool interface,
in-cab warning lamp and service information availability. The new GHG and fuel-efficiency regulations will be required for all heavy-duty diesel and natural gas
engines beginning in January 2014. Our GHG certification is the first engine certificate
issued by the EPA and uses the same proven base engine with the XPI fuel system, Variable Geometry Turbocharger (VGT™), Cummins Aftertreatment System with DPF and SCR technology and fully
integrated electronics.

Other Environmental Statutes and Regulations

Expenditures for environmental control activities and environmental remediation projects at our facilities in the U.S. have not been a
substantial portion of our annual capital outlays and are not expected to be material in 2013. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with laws and regulations applicable to our
plants and operations.

In
the U.S., pursuant to notices received from federal and state agencies and/or defendant parties in site environmental contribution actions, we have been identified as a potentially
responsible party (PRP) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended or similar state laws, at approximately 20 waste disposal sites. Based upon
our experiences at similar sites we believe that our aggregate future remediation costs will not be significant. We have established accruals that we believe are adequate for our expected future
liability with respect to these sites.

In
addition, we have several other sites where we are working with governmental authorities on remediation projects. The costs for these remediation projects are not expected to be
material.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 46,000 persons worldwide. Approximately 15,750 of our employees worldwide are
represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2013 and 2015.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information electronically with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "SEC"). You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and
information statements and other information that issuers (including Cummins) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's internet site is www.sec.gov.

Our
internet site is www.cummins.com. You can access our Investors and Media webpage through our internet site, by clicking on the heading "Investors and Media" followed by the "Investor









Relations"
link. We make available, free of charge, on or through our Investors and Media webpage, our proxy statements, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

We
also have a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access our Governance Documents webpage through our internet site, www.cummins.com, by clicking on the heading "Investors and Media,"
followed by the "Investor Relations" link and then the topic heading of "Governance Documents" within the "Corporate Governance" heading. Code of Conduct, Committee Charters and other governance
documents are included at this site. Our Code of Conduct applies to all employees, regardless of their position or the country in which they work. It also applies to the employees of any entity owned
or controlled by us. We will post any amendments to the Code of Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange LLC
(NYSE), on our internet site. The information on our internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Following are the names and ages of our executive officers, their positions with us as of January 31, 2013, and summaries of
their backgrounds and business experience:

Name and AgePresent Cummins Inc. position andyear appointed to positionPrincipal position during the pastfive years other than Cummins Inc.position currently heldN. Thomas Linebarger (50)Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (2012)President and Chief Operating Officer (2008-2011),Executive Vice President and President—Power Generation (2005-2008)Sharon R. Barner (55)Vice President—General Counsel (2012)Partner—Law firm of Foley & Lardner (2011-2012)Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce—Intellectual Property and Deputy Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (2009-2011)Partner—Law firm of Foley & Lardner (1996-2009)Jean S. Blackwell (58)Executive Vice President—Corporate Responsibility (2008)Executive Vice President—Chief Financial Officer (2005-2008)Pamela L. Carter (63)Vice President and President—Distribution Business (2007)Steven M. Chapman (58)Group Vice President—China and Russia (2009)Vice President—Emerging Markets and Businesses (2005-2009)Jill E. Cook (49)Vice President—Human Resources (2003)













Name and AgePresent Cummins Inc. position andyear appointed to positionPrincipal position during the pastfive years other than Cummins Inc.position currently held

Richard J. Freeland (55)Vice President and President—Engine Business (2010)Vice President and President—Components Group (2008-2010), Vice President and President—Worldwide Distribution Business (2005-2008)

Mark R. Gerstle (57)Vice President—Community Relations (2011)Vice President—Chief Administrative Officer (2008-2011), Vice President—Corporate Quality and Chief Risk Officer (2005-2008)

Richard E. Harris (60)Vice President—Chief Investment Officer (2008)Vice President—Treasurer (2003-2008)

Marsha L. Hunt (49)Vice President—Corporate Controller (2003)

Marya M. Rose (50)Vice President—Chief Administrative Officer (2011)Vice President—General Counsel and Corporate Secretary (2001-2011)

Livingston L. Satterthwaite (52)Vice President and President—Power Generation (2008)Vice President—Generator Set Business (2003-2008)

Anant J. Talaulicar (51)Vice President and President—Components Group (2010), Vice President and Managing Director—India ABO (2004)Chairman and Managing Director—Cummins India Ltd. (2003-present)

John C. Wall (61)Vice President—Chief Technical Officer (2000)

Patrick J. Ward (49)Vice President—Chief Financial Officer (2008)Vice President—Engine Business Controller (2006-2008)

Lisa M. Yoder (49)Vice President—Global Supply Chain & Manufacturing (2011)Vice President—Corporate Supply Chain (2010-2011), Executive Director—Supply Chain & Operations-Power Generation (2007-2010)

Our
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is elected annually by our Board of Directors and holds office until the meeting of the Board of Directors at which his election
is next considered. Other officers are appointed by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, are ratified by our Board of Directors and hold office for such period as the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer or the Board of Directors may prescribe.









