Item 1.    Business

OVERVIEW

Cummins Inc. was founded in 1919 as a corporation in Columbus, Indiana, as one of the first diesel engine manufacturers. We are
a global power leader that designs, manufactures, distributes and services diesel and natural gas engines, electric power generation systems and engine-related component products, including
filtration, exhaust aftertreatment, fuel systems, controls and air handling systems. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors and other customers worldwide. We
serve our customers through a network of more than 500 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 5,200 dealer locations in more than 190 countries and territories.

OPERATING SEGMENTS

We have four complementary operating segments: Engine, Power Generation, Components and Distribution. These segments share technology,
customers, strategic partners, brand recognition and our distribution network to gain a competitive advantage in their respective markets. In each of our operating segments, we compete worldwide with
a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our products primarily compete on the basis of performance, fuel economy, speed of delivery, quality, customer
support and price. Financial information about our operating segments, including geographic information, is incorporated by reference from Note 25, "OPERATING SEGMENTS," to ourConsolidated Financial
Statements.

Engine Segment

Engine segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years ended December 31,200920082007Percent of consolidated net sales(1)49%50%52%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)(2)34%41%47%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations(2)Defined
as earnings before interest and taxes

Our
Engine segment manufactures and markets a broad range of diesel and natural gas powered engines under the Cummins brand name, as well as certain customer brand names, for the heavy-
and medium-duty truck, bus, recreational vehicle (RV), light-duty automotive, agricultural, construction, mining, marine, oil and gas, rail and governmental equipment markets.
We offer a wide variety of engine products including:

•Engines with a displacement range of 1.4 to 91 liters and horsepower ranging from 31 to 3,500.•New parts and service, as well as remanufactured parts and engines, through our extensive distribution network.

Our
Engine segment is organized by engine displacement size and serves these end-user markets:

•Heavy-Duty Truck—We manufacture diesel engines
that range from 310 to 600 horsepower serving global heavy-duty truck customers worldwide.•Medium-Duty Truck and Bus—We manufacture
medium-duty diesel engines ranging from 200 to 400 horsepower serving medium-duty and inter-city delivery truck customers worldwide. We also









provide
diesel or natural gas engines for school buses, transit buses and shuttle buses worldwide, with key markets including North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia.•Light-Duty Automotive and RV—We manufacture 305 to
350 horsepower diesel engines for Chrysler's heavy-duty and chassis cab pickup trucks and 300 to 650 horsepower diesel engines for Class A motor homes, primarily in North America.•Industrial—We provide mid-range,
heavy-duty and high horsepower engines that range from 31 to 3,500 horsepower for a wide variety of equipment in the construction, agricultural, mining, rail, government, oil and gas,
power generation and commercial and recreational marine applications throughout the world. Across these markets we have major customers in North America, China, Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA),
India, Latin America, Korea, Southeast Asia, Russia, Japan, South Pacific and Mexico.

The
principal customers of our heavy- and medium-duty truck engines include truck manufacturers, such as PACCAR, Volvo Trucks North America, Daimler Trucks North America,
Ford and Volkswagen AG. We sell our industrial engines to manufacturers of construction, agricultural and marine equipment, including Case New Holland, Komatsu, Hyundai, Hitachi, Ingersoll Rand,
Brunswick and Terex. The principal customers of our light-duty on-highway engines are Chrysler and manufacturers of RVs.

In
the markets served by our Engine segment, we compete with independent engine manufacturers as well as OEMs who manufacture engines for their own products. Our primary
competitors in North America are Detroit Diesel Corporation, Volvo Powertrain, International Truck and Engine Corporation (Engine Division) and Caterpillar Inc. (CAT). Our primary competitors
in international markets vary from country to country, with local manufacturers generally predominant in each geographic market. Other engine manufacturers in international markets include Volvo,
Weichai Power Co. Ltd., GE Jenbacher, MAN Nutzfahrzeuge AG (MAN), Tognum AG, GuangxiYuchai Group, Yanmar Co., Ltd., Deutz AG and CAT.

Power Generation Segment

Power Generation segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years ended December 31,200920082007Percent of consolidated net sales(1)19%20%19%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)(2)22%28%26%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations(2)Defined
as earnings before interest and taxes

Our
Power Generation segment designs and manufactures most of the components that make up power generation systems, including engines, controls, alternators, transfer switches and
switchgear. This segment is a global provider of power generation systems, components and services for a diversified customer base and includes the following:

•Standby power solutions for customers who rely on uninterrupted sources of power to meet the needs of their customers.•Distributed generation power solutions for customers with less reliable electrical power infrastructures, typically in
developing countries. In addition, our power solutions provide an alternative source of generating capacity located close to its point of use, which is purchased by









utilities,
independent power producers and large power customers for use as prime or peaking power.•Mobile power provides a secondary source of power (other than drivetrain power) for mobile applications.

In
2009, our Power Generation segment reorganized its reporting structure and now reports the following businesses:

•Commercial products—Commercial products manufactures
generators for commercial applications ranging from 5 kilowatts to 2.75 megawatts.•Alternators—Alternators manufactures and sells its products
internally as well as to other generator set assemblers. Our products are sold under the Stamford, AVK and Markon brands and range in output from 0.6kVA to 30,000 kVA.•Commercial projects—Commercial projects includes all of our
natural gas-fired generators, our power generation rental business and other services including: installation, operation and maintenance services. Some projects are administered jointly
with the Distribution segment.•Power electronics—Power electronics builds controls for our
generators in-house. We also sell switch gear and transfer switches to both internal and external customers. This business integrates well with commercial products to provide a complete
solution to customers.•Consumer—Consumer manufactures and sells consumer products
under the Cummins Onan brand name including diesel, natural gas, gasoline and alternative-fuel electrical generator sets for use in RVs, commercial vehicles and recreational marine
applications.

For
revised sales data by product category for 2008 and 2007 see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

This
segment continuously explores emerging technologies, such as fuel cells, wind and hybrid solutions and provides integrated power generation products utilizing technologies other
than reciprocating engines. We use our own research and development capabilities as well as leverage business partnerships to develop cost-effective and environmentally sound power
solutions.

Our
customer base for power generation products is highly diversified, with customer groups varying based on their power needs. India, the Middle East, Western Europe and East Asia, are
our largest geographic markets outside of North America.

This
operating segment competes with a variety of engine manufacturers and generator set assemblers across the world. CAT, Tognum (MTU) and Mitsubishi (MHI) remain our primary
competitors, but we also compete with FG Wilson (Caterpillar group), Kohler, SDMO (Kohler group), Generac and numerous regional generator set assemblers. Our Alternator business competes globally with
Emerson Electric Co., Marathon Electric and Meccalte, among others.

Components Segment

Components segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years ended December 31,200920082007Percent of consolidated net sales(1)18%18%19%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)(2)13%13%12%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations(2)Defined
as earnings before interest and taxes









Our
Components segment supplies products which complement our Engine segment, including filtration products, turbochargers, aftertreatment systems, intake and exhaust systems and fuel
systems for commercial diesel applications. We manufacture filtration and exhaust systems for on- and off-highway heavy-duty and mid-range equipment,
and we are a supplier of filtration products for industrial and passenger car applications. In addition, we develop aftertreatment and exhaust systems to help our customers meet increasingly stringent
emissions standards and fuel systems which to date have primarily supplied our Engine segment and our partner Scania.

Our
Components segment is organized around the following businesses:

•

Filtration—Our filtration business offers over 14,000 products
including air, lube, fuel, hydraulic, coolant, diesel exhaust fluid/Adblue and fuel additives. Products are sold through Cummins Distribution, OEMs, OEM dealers, independent distributors, dealers and
end users. The globally recognized aftermarket brand Fleetguard is an industry leader in the key segments served. Cummins filtration supports a wide customer base including on-highway,
off-highway, oil and gas, agriculture, marine, industrial and light-duty automotive applications. These products are produced and sold across 160 countries at over 30,000
distribution points.

•

Turbo technologies—Our turbo technologies business designs,
manufactures and markets turbochargers for light-duty, mid-range, heavy-duty and high horsepower diesel applications with manufacturing facilities in five countries
and sales and distribution worldwide. Turbo technologies provides critical technologies for engines, including variable geometry turbochargers, to meet challenging performance requirements and
worldwide emissions standards. We primarily serve markets in North America, Europe and Asia.

•

Emission solutions—Our emission solutions business designs and
manufactures aftertreatment and exhaust systems to help our customers meet increasingly stringent emissions standards. Emission solutions expanded its international manufacturing capabilities with new
manufacturing facilities leases signed in 2007 in Beijing, China and Sao Paulo, Brazil, which are intended for use on both Cummins and external customer engines meeting Euro IV and Euro V emissions
standards, with production beginning in 2011 and 2012, respectively.

•

Fuel systems—Our fuel systems business designs and
manufactures new and replacement fuel systems primarily for heavy-duty on-highway diesel engine applications and also remanufactures fuel systems and engine control modules.
Scania and Komatsu are the primary external customers. Scania is also our partner in two joint ventures within our fuel systems business. The Cummins-Scania High Pressure Injection, LLC joint venture
currently manufactures fuel systems used by Cummins and Scania while the Cummins-Scania XPI joint venture currently produces advanced technology fuel systems for medium-and heavy-duty
engines.

Customers
of our Components segment generally include our Engine and Distribution segments, truck manufacturers and other OEMs, many of which are also customers of our Engine segment,
such as PACCAR, CNH Global N.V., International Truck and Engine, Volvo, Iveco and other manufacturers that use our filtration products in their product platforms. Our customer base for
replacement filtration parts is highly fragmented and primarily consists of various end-users of on- and off-highway vehicles and equipment.

Our
Components segment competes with other manufacturers of filtration, exhaust and fuel systems and turbochargers. Our primary competitors in these markets include Donaldson
Company, Inc., Clarcor Inc., Mann+Hummel Group, Tokyo Roki Co., Ltd., Borg-Warner, Bosch, Tenneco and Honeywell International.









Distribution Segment

Distribution segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years ended December 31,200920082007Percent of consolidated net sales(1)14%12%10%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)(2)31%18%15%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations(2)Defined
as earnings before interest and taxes

Our
Distribution segment consists of 19 company-owned and 18 joint venture distributors that service and distribute the full range of our products and services to end-users
at approximately 300 locations in approximately 70 distribution territories. Our company-owned distributors are located in key markets, including India, China, Japan, Australia, Europe, the Middle
East, South Africa, Brazil, North America and Russia.

The
Distribution segment is organized into four primary geographic regions:

•North and Central America,•South America,•EMEA and•Asia Pacific.

EMEA
and Asia Pacific are composed of seven smaller regional distributor organizations (Greater Europe, Africa, the Middle East, India, China, Northeast/Southeast Asia and the South
Pacific) which allow us to better manage these vast geographic territories.

Our
largest market, North and Central America, is mostly comprised of a network of partially-owned distributors. Internationally, our network consists of independent, partially-owned and
wholly-owned distributors. Through this network, we provide parts and service to our customers. These full-service solutions include maintenance contracts, engineering services and
integrated products, where we customize our products to cater to specific needs of end-users. Our distributors also serve and develop dealers, predominantly OEM dealers, in their
territories by providing technical support, tools, training, parts and product information.

In
addition to managing our investments in wholly-owned and partially-owned distributors, our Distribution segment is responsible for managing the performance and capabilities of our
independent distributors. Our distributors collectively serve a highly diverse customer base with approximately 44 percent of their 2009 revenues being generated from the sale of new engines
and power generation equipment, compared to 50 percent in 2008, and the remaining revenue generated by parts and service revenue.

Financial
information about our distributors accounted for under the equity method are incorporated by reference from Note 1, "SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES," and
Note 2, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to ourConsolidated Financial Statements.

During
2008, we purchased a majority interest in three previously independent North American distributors in order to increase our ownership interests in key portions of the distribution
channel. The acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting and resulted in an aggregate purchase price of $81 million which we funded with $54 million of
borrowings and $27 million of cash.











The
assets of the acquired businesses were primarily accounts receivable, inventory and fixed assets. There was less than $1 million of goodwill generated from these transactions.

Our
distributors compete with distributors or dealers that offer similar products. In many cases, these competing distributors or dealers are owned by, or affiliated with, the companies
that are listed above as competitors of our Engine, Power Generation or Components segments. These competitors vary by geographical location.

JOINT VENTURES, ALLIANCES AND NON-WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES

We have entered into a number of joint venture agreements and alliances with business partners around the world. Our joint ventures are
either distribution or manufacturing entities. We also own a controlling interest in a non-wholly-owned manufacturing subsidiary.

In
the event of a change of control of either party to these joint ventures and other strategic alliances, certain consequences may result including automatic termination and liquidation
of the venture,
exercise of "put" or "call" rights of ownership by the non-acquired partner, termination or transfer of technology license rights to the non-acquired partner and increases in
component transfer prices to the acquired partner. We will continue to evaluate joint venture and partnership opportunities in order to penetrate new markets, develop new products and generate
manufacturing and operational efficiencies.

Financial
information about our investments in joint ventures and alliances is incorporated by reference from Note 1, "SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES," Note 2,
"INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," and Note 23, "VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES," to theConsolidated Financial Statements.

Our
equity income from these investees was as follows:

Years ended December 31,In millions200920082007Distribution EntitiesNorth American distributors$10051%$10043%$8343%Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda.126%73%42%All other distributors31%52%21%Manufacturing EntitiesChongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.3618%3013%2211%Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.3317%5524%4121%Valvoline Cummins, Ltd.74%21%11%Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd.74%84%63%Tata Cummins Ltd.53%73%137%Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine, LLC(10)(5)%31%116%All other manufacturers31%146%95%Cummins share of net income(1)$196100%$231100%$192100%

(1)This
total represents Cummins share of net income of our equity investees and is exclusive of royalties and interest income from our equity investees. To
see how this amount reconciles to the "equity, royalty and interest income from investees" in theConsolidated Statements of Income, see Note 2,
"INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES."









Distribution Entities

•North American Distributors—Our distribution channel in North
America includes 13 partially-owned distributors. Our equity interests in these nonconsolidated entities range from 30 percent to 50 percent. While each distributor is a separate legal
entity, the business of each is the same as that of our wholly-owned distributors based in other parts of the world. All of our distributors, irrespective of their legal structure or ownership, offer
the full range of our products and services to customers and end-users in their respective markets.•Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda.—Komatsu Cummins
Chile, Ltda. is a joint venture with Komatsu America Corporation. The joint venture is a distributor that offers the full range of our products and services to customers and
end-users in the Chilean market.

Our
licensing agreements with independent and partially-owned distributors generally have a three-year term and are restricted to specified territories. Our distributors
develop and maintain a network of dealers with which we have no direct relationship. The distributors are permitted to sell other, noncompetitive products only with our consent. We license all of our
distributors to use our name and logo in connection with the sale and service of our products, with no right to assign or sublicense the marks, except to authorized dealers, without our consent.
Products are sold to the distributors at standard domestic or international distributor net prices, as applicable. Net prices are wholesale prices we establish to permit our distributors an adequate
margin on their sales. Subject to local laws, we can refuse to renew these agreements at will and we may terminate them upon 90-day notice for inadequate sales, change in principal
ownership and certain other reasons. Distributors also have the right to terminate the agreements upon 60-day notice without cause, or 30-day notice for cause. Upon termination
or failure to renew, we are required to purchase the distributor's current inventory, signage and special tools, and may, at our option purchase other assets of the distributor, but are under no
obligation to do so. See further discussion of our distribution network under the Distribution segment section above.

Manufacturing Entities

Manufacturing joint ventures are generally formed with customers and allow us to increase our market penetration in geographic regions,
reduce capital spending, streamline our supply chain management and develop technologies. Our largest manufacturing joint ventures are based in China and are included in the list below. Our engine
manufacturing joint ventures are supplied by our Components segment in the same manner as they supply our wholly-owned Engine segment and Power Generation segment manufacturing facilities. Components
segment joint ventures and wholly owned entities provide fuel system, filtration and turbocharger products that are used in our engines as well as some competitors' products. These joint ventures are
not included in ourConsolidated Financial Statements.

•Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.—Chongqing
Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Chongqing Heavy Duty Vehicle Group that manufactures several models of our heavy-duty and high-horsepower
diesel engines, primarily serving the industrial and stationary power markets in China.•Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.—Dongfeng Cummins
Engine Company, Ltd. (DCEC) is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng Automotive Corporation, a subsidiary of Dongfeng Motor Company (Dongfeng), one of the largest medium-duty truck
manufacturers in China. DCEC produces Cummins four- to nine-liter mechanical engines, full-electronic diesel engines, with a power range from 100 to 370 horsepower,
and natural gas engines.•Valvoline Cummins, Ltd.—Valvoline Cummins, Ltd.
is a joint venture with Ashland Inc., USA. The joint venture manufactures and distributes lubricant—oil products in India which are used









in
automotive and industrial applications. Products include transmission fluids, hydraulic lubricants, automotive filters, cooling system products, greases and specialty products.

•Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd.—Shanghai
Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng that manufactures filtration and exhaust systems.•Tata Cummins Ltd.—Tata Cummins Ltd. is a joint venture
in India with Tata Motors Ltd., the largest automotive company in India and a member of the Tata group of companies. This joint venture manufactures the engines in India for use in trucks
manufactured by Tata Motors, as well as for various industrial and power generation applications.•Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine, LLC—Cummins
MerCruiser Diesel Marine, LLC is a joint venture in the United States (U.S.) with Mercury Marine, a division of Brunswick Corporation, to develop, manufacture and sell recreational marine
diesel products, including engines, sterndrive packages, inboard packages, instrument and controls, service systems and replacement and service parts and assemblies, complete integration systems and
other related products.•Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd.—Beijing Foton Cummins
Engine Co., Ltd. is a 50/50 joint venture in China with Beijing Foton Motor Co., Ltd., a commercial vehicle manufacturer, to produce two new families of Cummins high
performance light-duty, diesel engines in Beijing. The engines will be used in light-duty commercial trucks, pickup trucks, multipurpose and sport utility vehicles. Certain
types of marine, small construction equipment and industrial applications will also be served by these engine families.

Non-Wholly-Owned Manufacturing Subsidiary

We have a controlling interest in Cummins India Ltd. (CIL), which is a publicly listed company on various stock exchanges in
India. CIL produces mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines, as well as generators for the Indian and export markets. CIL also produces compressed natural
gas spark-ignited engines licensed from another of our joint ventures. CIL's net income attributable to Cummins was $28 million, $36 million and $26 million for
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

SUPPLY

We source our materials and manufactured components from leading suppliers both domestically and internationally. We machine and
assemble some of the components used in our engines and power generation units, including blocks, heads, turbochargers, connecting rods, camshafts, crankshafts, filters, exhaust systems, alternators
and fuel systems. We single source approximately 70 to 80 percent of the total types of parts in our product designs. We have long-term agreements with critical suppliers who are
the sole source for specific products or supply items. Although we elect to source a relatively high proportion of our total raw materials and component requirements from sole suppliers, we have
established a process to annually review our sourcing strategies with a focus on the reduction of risk, which has led us to dual source critical components, where possible. We are also developing
suppliers in many global or emerging markets to serve our businesses across the globe and provide alternative sources in the event of disruption from existing suppliers.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own or control a significant number of patents and trademarks relating to the products we manufacture. These patents and trademarks
have been granted and registered over a period of years. Although these patents and trademarks are generally considered beneficial to our operations, we do not believe any patent, group of patents, or
trademark (other than our leading brand house trademarks) is considered significant to our business.









SEASONALITY

While individual product lines may experience modest seasonal declines in production, there is no material effect on the demand for the
majority of our products on a quarterly basis with the exception that our Power Generation segment normally experiences seasonal declines in the first quarter due to general declines in construction
spending during this period and our Distribution segment normally experiences seasonal declines in first quarter business activity due to holiday periods in Asia and Australia.

LARGEST CUSTOMERS

We have thousands of customers around the world and have developed long-standing business relationships with many of them.
We have long-term heavy-duty engine supply agreements with PACCAR and Volvo Trucks North America. We have mid-range supply agreements with PACCAR, as its exclusive
engine supplier, as well as with Daimler Trucks North America (formerly Freightliner LLC), Ford and MAN (formerly Volkswagen). We also have an agreement with Chrysler, for supplying the engine for use
in Dodge Ram trucks. Collectively, our net sales to these six customers was approximately 22 percent of consolidated net sales in 2009, compared to approximately 21 percent in
2008 and 27 percent in 2007 and individually was less than nine percent of consolidated net sales to any single customer in 2009, compared to less than eight percent in both 2008 and 2007.
These agreements contain standard purchase and sale agreement terms covering engine and engine parts pricing, quality and delivery commitments, as well as engineering product support obligations. The
basic nature of our agreements with OEM customers is that they are long-term price and operations agreements that assure the availability of our products to each customer through the
duration of the respective agreements. Agreements with most OEMs contain bilateral termination provisions giving either party the right to terminate in the event of a material breach, change of
control or insolvency or bankruptcy of the other party.

BACKLOG

As a result of the current recessed economic conditions many of our order lead times have decreased significantly from lead times in
prior years. While we have supply agreements with some truck and off-highway equipment OEMs, most of our business is transacted through open purchase orders. These open orders are
historically subject to month-to-month releases and are subject to cancellation on reasonable notice without cancellation charges and therefore are not considered firm.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSE

Our research and development program is focused on product improvements, innovations and cost reductions for our customers. We expense
research and development expenditures, net of contract reimbursements, when incurred. Research and development expenses, net of contract reimbursements, were $362 million in 2009,
$422 million in 2008 and $318 million in 2007. Contract reimbursements were $92 million in 2009, $61 million in 2008 and $52 million in 2007. For 2009 and 2008,
approximately 42 percent, or $151 million, and approximately 27 percent, or $116 million, respectively, were directly related to compliance with 2010 EPA emissions
standards. For 2007, 17 percent, or $55 million, was related to compliance with 2010 EPA emissions standards. In 2009, we reduced research, development and engineering expenses but
continued to invest in critical technologies and products for 2010 and beyond. We will continue to make investments to improve our current technologies, to continue to meet the future emissions
requirements around the world and improve fuel economy.









ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

Sustainability

In 2009, we continued to be a leader in sustainable business development. We have invested significantly in new products and
technologies designed to further lower exhaust emissions from our products. We have increased our commitment to addressing the global impact of climate change and have introduced our first set of 10
climate change principles that address ways that we plan to become a greater part of the solution and also articulated our positions on key public policy issues surrounding climate change. For the
fourth consecutive year, we were named to the Dow Jones World Sustainability index, which recognizes the top 10 percent of the world's largest 2,500 companies in economic, environmental and
social leadership. Our sustainability report for 2009 is available on our website at www.cummins.com.

Product Environmental Compliance

Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements that directly or indirectly impose standards governing
emissions and noise. Our products comply with all current emissions standards that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the California Air Resources Board (CARB) and other state and
international regulatory agencies have established for heavy-duty on-highway diesel and gas engines and off-highway engines. Our ability to comply with these and
future emissions standards is an essential element in maintaining our leadership position in regulated markets. We have made, and will continue to make significant capital and research expenditures to
comply with these standards. Failure to comply with these standards could result in adverse effects on our future financial results.

EPA Engine Certifications

The current on-highway emissions standards came into effect in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. To meet the 2010 U.S.
EPA heavy-duty on-highway emissions standards, we are using an evolution of our proven 2007 technology solution to maintain power and torque with substantial fuel economy
improvement and maintenance intervals comparable with our 2007 compliant engines. We will offer a complete lineup of on-highway engines to meet the near-zero emissions
standards. Mid-range and heavy-duty engines for EPA 2010 require nitrogen oxide (NOx) aftertreatment. NOx reduction is achieved by an integrated technology solution comprised
of the XPI High Pressure Common Rail fuel system, selective catalytic reduction (SCR) technology, next-generation cooled exhaust gas recirculation (EGR), advanced electronic controls,
proven air handling and the Cummins Particulate Filter. The EPA and CARB have certified that our engines meet the 2010 emission requirements. Emissions standards in international markets, including
Europe, Japan, Mexico, Australia, Brazil, India and China are becoming more stringent. We believe that our experience in meeting U.S. emissions standards leaves us well positioned to take advantage of
opportunities in these markets as the need for emissions control capability grows.

Federal
and California regulations require manufacturers to report failures of emissions-related components to the EPA and CARB when the failure rate reaches a specified level. At higher
failure rates, a product recall may be required. In 2009, we submitted three reports to the EPA relating to two different defects affecting oxidation catalysts and vehicle labels. The oxidation
catalyst defect necessitated the campaign of approximately 360 engines.

Other Environmental Statutes and Regulations

Expenditures for environmental control activities and environmental remediation projects at our facilities in the U.S. have not been a
substantial portion of our annual capital outlays and are not











expected
to be material in 2010. Except as follows, we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with laws and regulations applicable to our plants and operations.

In
the U.S., pursuant to notices received from federal and state agencies and/or defendant parties in site environmental contribution actions, we have been identified as a Potentially
Responsible Party (PRP) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as
amended or similar state laws, at approximately 19 waste disposal sites. Based upon our experiences at similar sites we believe that our aggregate future remediation costs will not be significant. We
have established accruals that we believe are adequate for our expected future liability with respect to these sites.

In
addition, we have four other sites where we are working with governmental authorities on remediation projects. The costs for these remediation projects are not expected to be
material.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 34,900 persons worldwide. Approximately 13,200 of our employees worldwide are
represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2010 and 2014. For a discussion of the effects of our 2008 and 2009 restructuring actions on employment, see
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 3, "RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES," to ourConsolidated Financial
Statementsin this Form 10-K.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information electronically with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "SEC"). You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and
information statements and other information that issuers (including Cummins) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's internet site is www.sec.gov.

Our
internet site is www.cummins.com. You can access our Investors and Media webpage through our internet site, by clicking on the heading "Investors and Media." We make available, free
of charge, on or through our Investors and Media webpage, our proxy statements, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as soon as reasonably
practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

We
also have a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access our Governance Documents webpage through our internet site, www.cummins.com, by clicking on the heading "Investors and Media,"
followed by the "Investor Relations" link and then the topic heading of "Governance Documents" within the "Corporate Governance" heading. Code of Conduct, Committee Charters and other governance
documents are included at this site. Cummins Code of Conduct applies to all employees, regardless of their position or the country in which they work. It also applies to the employees of any entity
owned or controlled by us. We will post any amendments to the Code of Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange LLC
(NYSE), on our internet site. The information on Cummins internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.









In
accordance with NYSE Rules, on May 21, 2009, we filed the annual certification by our CEO that, as of the date of the certification, he was unaware of any violation by the
company of the NYSE's corporate governance listing standards.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Following are the names and ages of the executive officers of Cummins Inc., their positions with us as of January 31,
2010, and summaries of their backgrounds and business experience:





Name and AgePresent Cummins Inc. position andyear appointed to positionPrincipal position during the pastfive years other than Cummins Inc.position currently held

Theodore M. Solso (62)Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (2000)

N. Thomas Linebarger (47)President and Chief Operating Officer (2008)Executive Vice President and President—Power Generation (2005-2008), Vice President and President Cummins Power Generation (2003-2005)

Pamela L. Carter (60)Vice President and President—Distribution Business (2008)President—Cummins Filtration (2006-2008), President—Fleetguard (2005-2006), Vice President—WW Sales, Marketing and Logistics—Fleetguard (2001-2005)

Steven M. Chapman (55)Group Vice President—China and Russia (2009)Vice President—Emerging Markets and Businesses (2005-2009), Vice President—International and President International Distributor Business (2002-2005)

Richard J. Freeland (52)Vice President and President—Components Group (2008)Vice President and President—Worldwide Distribution Business (2005-2008), Vice President and General Manager—PowerCare and Distribution (2004-2005)

Mark R. Gerstle (54)Vice President—Corporate Quality and Chief Risk Officer (2005)Vice President—Corporate/Cummins Business Services and Corporate Quality (2004-2005)

Richard E. Harris (57)Vice President—Chief Investment Officer (2008)Vice President—Treasurer (2003-2008)

Marsha L. Hunt (46)Vice President—Corporate Controller (2003)

James D. Kelly (57)Vice President and President—Engine Business (2005)Vice President and General Manager—Mid-range and Heavy-Duty Engine Business (2004-2005)









Name and AgePresent Cummins Inc. position andyear appointed to positionPrincipal position during the pastfive years other than Cummins Inc.position currently heldMarya M. Rose (47)Vice President—General Counsel and Corporate Secretary (2001)Livingston L. Satterthwaite (49)Vice President and President—Power Generation (2008)Vice President—Generator Set Business (2003-2008)John C. Wall (58)Vice President—Chief Technical Officer (2000)Patrick J. Ward (46)Vice President—Chief Financial Officer (2008)Vice President—Engine Business Controller (2005-2008), Executive Director—Power Generation Business Controller (2003-2005)

Our
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is elected annually by our Board of Directors and holds office until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of
the shareholders. Other officers are appointed by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, are ratified by our Board of Directors and hold office for such period as the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer or the Board of Directors may prescribe.

