ITEM 1.    Business

OVERVIEW

Cummins Inc. was founded in 1919 as a corporation in Columbus, Indiana, as one of the first diesel engine manufacturers. We are
a global power leader that designs, manufactures, distributes and services diesel and natural gas engines and engine-related component products, including filtration, exhaust aftertreatment, fuel
systems, controls systems, air handling systems and electric power generation systems. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors and other customers worldwide. We
serve our customers through a network of more than 600 company-owned and independent distributor locations and more than 6,500 dealer locations in more than 190 countries and territories.

OPERATING SEGMENTS

We have four complementary operating segments: Engine, Components, Power Generation and Distribution. These segments share technology,
customers, strategic partners, brand recognition and our distribution network in order to compete more efficiently and effectively in their respective markets. In each of our operating segments, we
compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our products compete primarily on the basis of performance, fuel economy, speed of
delivery, quality, customer support and price. Financial information about our operating segments, including geographic information, is incorporated by reference from Note 23, "OPERATING
SEGMENTS," to ourConsolidated Financial Statements.

Engine Segment

Engine segment sales and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years endedDecember 31,201120102009Percent of consolidated net sales(1)52%49%49%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)53%48%34%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations

Our
Engine segment manufactures and markets a broad range of diesel and natural gas powered engines under the Cummins brand name, as well as certain customer brand names, for the heavy-
and medium-duty truck, bus, recreational vehicle (RV), light-duty automotive, agricultural, construction, mining, marine, oil and gas, rail and governmental equipment markets.
We offer a wide variety of engine products including:

•Engines with a displacement range of 1.4 to 91 liters and horsepower ranging from 31 to 3,500 and•New parts and service, as well as remanufactured parts and engines, through our extensive distribution network.

Our
Engine segment is organized by engine displacement size and serves these end-user markets:

•Heavy-Duty Truck—We manufacture diesel engines
that range from 310 to 620 horsepower serving global heavy-duty truck customers worldwide.•Medium-Duty Truck and Bus—We manufacture
medium-duty diesel engines ranging from 200 to 380 horsepower serving medium-duty and inter-city delivery truck customers worldwide, with key









markets
including: Latin America, North America, Europe and Mexico. We also provide diesel or natural gas engines for school buses, transit buses and shuttle buses worldwide, with key markets
including North America, Asia, Europe and Latin America.•Light-Duty Automotive and RV—We manufacture 305 to
350 horsepower diesel engines for Chrysler's heavy-duty chassis cab and pickup trucks and 300 to 600 horsepower diesel engines for Class A motor homes (RVs), primarily in North
America.•Industrial—We provide mid-range,
heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines that range from 31 to 3,500 horsepower for a wide variety of equipment in the construction, agricultural, mining, rail, government, oil
and gas, power generation and commercial and recreational marine applications throughout the world. Across these markets we have major customers in North America, Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA),
China, India, South Korea, Latin America, Russia, Japan, Southeast Asia, South Pacific and Mexico.

The
principal customers of our heavy- and medium-duty truck engines include truck manufacturers such as PACCAR Inc (PACCAR), Daimler Trucks North America, MAN Latin America
and Ford. We sell our industrial engines to manufacturers of construction, agricultural and marine equipment, including Komatsu, Hyundai, Belaz, Liugong and Hitachi. The principal customers of our
light-duty on-highway engines are Chrysler and manufacturers of RVs.

In
the markets served by our Engine segment, we compete with independent engine manufacturers as well as OEMs who manufacture engines for their own products. Our primary
competitors in North America are International Truck and Engine Corporation (Engine Division), Detroit Diesel Corporation, Caterpillar Inc.
(CAT) and Volvo Powertrain. Our primary competitors in international markets vary from country to country, with local manufacturers generally predominant in each geographic market. Other engine
manufacturers in international markets include Weichai Power Co. Ltd., MAN Nutzfahrzeuge AG (MAN), Fiat Power Systems, GE Jenbacher, Tognum AG, CAT, Volvo,
Yanmar Co., Ltd., GuangxiYuchai Group and Deutz AG.

Components Segment

Components segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years endedDecember 31,201120102009Percent of consolidated net sales(1)18%19%18%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)18%16%13%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations

Our
Components segment supplies products which complement our Engine segment, including filtration products, turbochargers, aftertreatment systems, intake and exhaust systems and fuel
systems for commercial diesel applications. We manufacture filtration and exhaust systems for on- and off-highway heavy-duty and mid-range equipment,
and we are a supplier of filtration products for industrial and passenger car applications. In addition, we develop aftertreatment and exhaust systems to help our customers meet increasingly stringent
emission standards and fuel systems which to date have primarily supplied our Engine segment and our joint venture partner Scania.

Our
Components segment is organized around the following businesses:

•Emission solutions—Our emission solutions business is a global
leader in designing, manufacturing and integrating exhaust aftertreatment technology and solutions for the commercial on-and off-highway medium-duty,
heavy-duty and high-horsepower engine markets.









Our
emission solutions business develops and produces various emission solutions, including custom engineering systems and integrated controls, oxidation catalysts, particulate filters, oxides of
nitrogen (NOx) reduction systems such as selective catalytic reduction and NOx adsorbers and engineered components such as dosers and sensors. Our emissions solutions business has key operations in
Indiana, Wisconsin, South Africa, the United Kingdom (U.K.), China, Brazil and India and serves both OEM and engine first fit and retrofit customers.

•

Turbo technologies—Our turbo technologies business designs,
manufactures and markets turbochargers for light-duty, mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel markets with manufacturing facilities in five
countries and sales and distribution worldwide. Our turbo technologies business provides critical air handling technologies for engines, including variable geometry turbochargers, to meet challenging
performance requirements and worldwide emission standards. Our turbo technologies business primarily serves markets in North America, Asia and Europe.

•

Filtration—Our filtration business designs and manufactures
filtration, coolant and chemical products. The filtration business offers over 7,000 products including air filters, fuel filters, fuel water separators, lube filters, hydraulic filters, coolant,
diesel exhaust fluid, fuel additives and other filtration systems to OEMs, dealers/distributors and end users. Our filtration business supports a wide customer base in a diverse range of markets
including on-highway, off-highway, oil and gas, agriculture, marine, industrial and light-duty automotive. We produce and sell globally recognized
Fleetguard® branded products in over 160 countries including countries in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia. Fleetguard products are available through
thousands of distribution points worldwide.

•

Fuel systems—Our fuel systems business designs and
manufactures new and replacement fuel systems primarily for heavy-duty on-highway diesel engine applications and also remanufactures fuel systems and engine control modules.
Scania and Komatsu are our fuel systems business' primary external customers. Scania is also our partner in two joint ventures within our fuel systems business. The Cummins-Scania High Pressure
Injection, LLC joint venture currently manufactures fuel systems used internally and by Scania while the Cummins-Scania XPI joint venture currently produces advanced technology fuel systems for
medium- and heavy-duty engines used internally and by Scania.

Customers
of our Components segment generally include our Engine and Distribution segments, truck manufacturers and other OEMs, many of which are also customers of our Engine segment,
such as PACCAR, Daimler, Volvo, Iveco, Scania and other manufacturers that use our components in their product platforms.

Our
Components segment competes with other manufacturers of filtration, exhaust and fuel systems and turbochargers. Our primary competitors in these markets include Donaldson Company,
Inc., Clarcor Inc., Mann+Hummel Group, Honeywell International, Borg-Warner, Robert Bosch GmbH, Tenneco Inc., Eberspacher Holding GmbH & Co. KG
and Denso Corporation.

In
the second quarter of 2011, we sold certain assets and liabilities of our exhaust business which manufactures exhaust products and select components for emission systems for a variety
of applications not core to our other product offerings. This business was historically included in our Components segment. The sales price was $123 million. We recognized a gain on the sale of
$68 million ($37 million after-tax), which included a goodwill allocation of $19 million. The gain was excluded from segment results as it was not considered in our
evaluation of operating results for the year ended December 31, 2011.









Sales
for this business were $62 million, $171 million and $126 million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively. Operating results for this business
were approximately $9 million, $22 million and $11 million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively.

During
the fourth quarter of 2011, we sold certain assets and liabilities of our light-duty filtration business which manufactures light-duty automotive and
industrial filtration solutions. The sales price was $90 million and included a note receivable from the buyer of approximately $1 million. There are no earnouts or other contingencies
associated with the sales price. We recognized a gain on the sale of $53 million ($33 million after-tax), which included a goodwill allocation of $6 million. The gain
was excluded from segment results as it was not considered in our evaluation of operating results for the year ended December 31, 2011.

Sales
for this business were $64 million, $74 million and $54 million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively. Operating results for this business
were approximately $13 million, $9 million and $2 million in 2011 (through closing), 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Power Generation Segment

Power Generation segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years endedDecember 31,201120102009Percent of consolidated net sales(1)16%18%19%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)14%18%22%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations

Our
Power Generation segment designs and manufactures most of the components that make up power generation systems, including engines, controls, alternators, transfer switches and
switchgear. This segment is a global provider of power generation systems, components and services for a diversified customer base, including the
following:

•Standby power solutions for customers who rely on uninterrupted sources of power to meet the needs of their customers.•Distributed generation power solutions for customers with less reliable electrical power infrastructures, typically in
developing countries. In addition, our power solutions provide an alternative source of generating capacity located close to its point of use, which is purchased by utilities, independent power
producers and large power customers for use as prime or peaking power.•Mobile power solutions, which provide a secondary source of power (other than drivetrain power) for mobile applications.

Our
Power Generation segment is organized around the following businesses:

•Commercial products—Our commercial products business
manufactures generators for commercial applications ranging from 5 kilowatts to 2.75 megawatts.•Generator technologies—Our generator technologies business
manufactures and sells its alternator products internally as well as to other generator set assemblers. Our products are sold under the Stamford, AVK and Markon brands and range in output from 0.6
kilovolt-amperes (kVA) to 30,000 kVA.•Commercial projects—Our commercial projects business includes
mainly all of our natural gas-fired generator business, our power generation project business and our military business.









•Consumer—Our consumer business manufactures and sells consumer
products under the Cummins Onan brand name including diesel, natural gas, gasoline and alternative-fuel electrical generator sets for use in RVs, commercial vehicles, recreational marine
applications and home stand-by or residential applications.•Power electronics—Our power electronics business designs and
builds generator controls. We also sell switch gear and transfer switches to both internal and external customers. This business integrates well with our commercial products business, providing
complete customized solutions to customers.

This
segment continuously explores emerging technologies, such as fuel cells, wind and hybrid solutions and provides integrated power generation products using technologies other than
reciprocating engines. We use our own research and development capabilities as well as those of our business partnerships to develop cost-effective and environmentally sound power
solutions.

Our
customer base for our power generation products is highly diversified, with customer groups varying based on their power needs. India, East Asia, the U.K., Latin America, Western
Europe and the Middle East are our largest geographic markets outside of North America.

Power
Generation competes with a variety of engine manufacturers and generator set assemblers across the world. CAT, Tognum (MTU) and Kohler/SDMO (Kohler Group) remain our primary
competitors, but we also compete with FG Wilson (CAT group), Generac, Mitsubishi (MHI) and numerous regional generator set assemblers. Our generator technologies business competes globally with
Emerson Electric Co., Marathon Electric and Meccalte, among others.

Distribution Segment

Distribution segment sales and EBIT as a percentage of consolidated results were:

Years endedDecember 31,201120102009Percent of consolidated net sales(1)14%14%14%Percent of consolidated EBIT(1)15%18%31%

(1)Measured
before intersegment eliminations

Our
Distribution segment consists of 22 company-owned and 18 joint venture distributors that service and distribute the full range of our products and services to end-users
at approximately 400 locations in approximately 70 distribution territories. Our company-owned distributors are located in key markets, including North America, Australia, Europe, the Middle East,
India, China, Africa, Russia, Japan, Brazil and Singapore, while our joint venture distributors are located in North America, South America, Africa, China, Thailand, Singapore and Vietnam.

The
Distribution segment consists of the following businesses which service and/or distribute the full range of our products and
services:

•Parts and filtration,•Power generation,•Engines and•Service.

The
Distribution segment is organized into five primary geographic regions:

•Asia Pacific,









•Europe and the Middle East (EME),•North and Central America,•Africa and•South America.

Asia
Pacific and EME are composed of six smaller regional distributor organizations (South Pacific, Greater Europe, the Middle East, China, India and Northeast/Southeast Asia) which
allow us to better manage these vast geographic territories.

North
and Central America are mostly comprised of a network of partially-owned distributors. Internationally, our network consists of independent, partially-owned and wholly-owned
distributors. Through these networks, we provide parts and service to our customers. These full-service solutions include maintenance contracts, engineering services and integrated
products, where we customize our products to cater to specific needs of end-users. Our distributors also serve and develop dealers, predominantly OEM dealers, in their territories by
providing new products, technical support, tools, training, parts and product information.

In
addition to managing our involvement with our wholly-owned and partially-owned distributors, our Distribution segment is responsible for managing the performance and capabilities of
our independent distributors. Our Distribution segment serves a highly diverse customer base with approximately 47 percent of its 2011 sales being generated from new engines and power
generation equipment, compared to 42 percent in 2010, with its remaining sales generated by parts and service revenue.

Financial
information about our distributors accounted for under the equity method are incorporated by reference from Note 3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to ourConsolidated Financial Statements.

In
November 2010, we purchased a majority interest in a previously independent North American distributorship. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting
and resulted in an aggregate purchase price of $27 million. The assets of the acquired business were primarily accounts receivable, inventory, and fixed assets. The transaction generated
$1 million of goodwill.

On
January 4, 2010, we acquired the remaining 70 percent interest in Cummins Western Canada (CWC) from our former principal for consideration of approximately
$71 million in order to increase our ownership interests in key portions of the distribution channel. We formed a new partnership with a new distributor principal in which we own
80 percent of CWC and the new distributor principal owns 20 percent. The acquisition, which was effective on January 1, 2010, was accounted for as a business combination and
resulted in $2 million of goodwill. The results of the acquired entity for 2011 and 2010 were included in the Distribution operating segment. The assets of the acquired business were primarily
inventory, fixed assets and accounts receivable. See Note 2, "DIVESTITURES AND ACQUISITIONS," to ourConsolidated Financial Statementsfor
additional detail.

Our
distributors compete with distributors or dealers that offer similar products. In many cases, these competing distributors or dealers are owned by, or affiliated with the companies
that are listed above as competitors of our Engine, Components or Power Generation segments. These competitors vary by geographical location.

JOINT VENTURES, ALLIANCES AND NON-WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES

We have entered into a number of joint venture agreements and alliances with business partners around the world. Our joint ventures are
either distribution or manufacturing entities. We also own









controlling
interests in non-wholly-owned manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries. Three entities, in which we own more than a 50 percent equity interest, are consolidated in
our Distribution segment results as well as several manufacturing joint ventures in the other operating segments.

In
the event of a change of control of either party to certain of these joint ventures and other strategic alliances, certain consequences may result including automatic termination and
liquidation of the venture, exercise of "put" or "call" rights of ownership by the non-acquired partner, termination or transfer of technology license rights to the
non-acquired partner and increases in component transfer prices to the acquired partner. We will continue to evaluate joint venture and partnership opportunities in order to penetrate new
markets, develop new products and generate manufacturing and operational efficiencies.

Financial
information about our investments in joint ventures and alliances is incorporated by reference from Note 3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to theConsolidated Financial Statements.

Our
equity income from these investees was as follows:

Years ended December 31,In millions201120102009Distribution EntitiesNorth American distributors$13436%$10132%$10051%Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda.226%165%126%All other distributors41%31%31%Manufacturing EntitiesDongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.8021%9931%3317%Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.6818%4614%3618%Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd.154%124%74%Tata Cummins, Ltd.144%144%53%Cummins Westport, Inc.144%103%31%Valvoline Cummins, Ltd.72%83%74%Komatsu manufacturing alliances31%113%(2)(1)%Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine, LLC(3)(1)%(3)(1)%(10)(5)%Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd.(7)(2)%(16)(5)%(5)(3)%All other manufacturers246%206%74%Cummins share of net income(1)$375100%$321100%$196100%

(1)This
total represents our share of net income of our equity investees and is exclusive of royalties and interest income from our equity investees. To see
how this amount reconciles to the "equity, royalty and interest income from investees" in theConsolidated Statements of Income, see Note 3,
"INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to ourConsolidated Financial Statements.

Distribution Entities

•North American Distributors—Our distribution channel in North
America includes 12 partially-owned distributors. Our equity interests in these nonconsolidated entities range from 30 percent to 50 percent. We also have more than a 50 percent
ownership interest in three partially owned distributors which we consolidate. While each distributor is a separate legal entity, the business of each is substantially the same as that of our
wholly-owned distributors based in other parts of the world. All of our distributors, irrespective of their legal structure or ownership, offer the full range of our products and services to customers
and end-users in their respective markets.









•Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda.—Komatsu Cummins
Chile, Ltda. is a joint venture with Komatsu America Corporation. The joint venture is a distributor that offers the full range of our products and services to customers and
end-users in the Chilean market.

Our
distribution agreements with independent and partially-owned distributors generally have a renewable three-year term and are restricted to specified territories. Our
distributors develop and maintain a network of dealers with which we have no direct relationship. Our distributors are permitted to sell other, noncompetitive products only with our consent. We
license all of our distributors to use our name and logo in connection with the sale and service of our products, with no right to assign or sublicense the trademarks, except to authorized dealers,
without our consent. Products are sold to the distributors at standard domestic or international distributor net prices, as applicable. Net prices are wholesale prices we establish to permit our
distributors an adequate margin on their sales. Subject to local laws, we can generally refuse to renew these agreements upon expiration or terminate them upon written notice for inadequate sales,
change in principal ownership and certain other reasons. Distributors also have the right to terminate the agreements upon 60-day notice without cause, or 30-day notice for
cause. Upon termination or failure to renew, we are required to purchase the distributor's current inventory, signage and special tools, and may, at our option purchase other assets of the
distributor, but are under no obligation to do so.

See
further discussion of our distribution network under the Distribution segment section above.

Manufacturing Entities

Our manufacturing joint ventures have generally been formed with customers and generally are intended to allow us to increase our
market penetration in geographic regions, reduce capital spending, streamline our supply chain management and develop technologies. Our largest manufacturing joint ventures are based in China and are
included in the list below. Our engine manufacturing joint ventures are supplied by our Components segment in the same manner as it supplies our wholly-owned Engine segment and Power Generation
segment manufacturing facilities. Our Components segment joint ventures and wholly owned entities provide fuel system, filtration and turbocharger products that are used in our engines as well as some
competitors' products. The results and investments in our joint ventures in which we have 50 percent or less ownership interest are included in "Equity, royalty and interest income from
investees" and "Investments and advances related to equity method investees" in ourConsolidated Statements of IncomeandConsolidated Balance Sheets,
respectively.

•Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.—Dongfeng Cummins
Engine Company, Ltd. (DCEC) is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng Automotive Co. Ltd., a subsidiary of Dongfeng Motor Corporation (Dongfeng), one of the largest
medium-duty and heavy-duty truck manufacturers in China. DCEC produces Cummins four- to 13-liter mechanical engines, full-electronic diesel
engines, with a power range from 125 to 545 horsepower, and natural gas engines.•Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.—Chongqing
Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. (CCEC) is a joint venture in China with Chongqing Machinery and Electric Co. Ltd. This joint venture manufactures several models of our
heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines, primarily serving the industrial and stationary power markets in China.•Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd.—Shanghai
Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng that manufactures filtration systems.•Tata Cummins Ltd.—Tata Cummins Ltd. is a joint
venture in India with Tata Motors Ltd., the largest automotive company in India and a member of the Tata group of companies. This joint venture manufactures the engines in India for use in
trucks manufactured by Tata Motors, as well as for various industrial and power generation applications.









•

Cummins Westport, Inc.—Cummins Westport, Inc. is
a joint venture in Canada with Westport Innovations Inc. to market and sell automotive spark-ignited natural gas engines worldwide and to participate in joint technology projects on
low-emission technologies.

•

Valvoline Cummins, Ltd.—Valvoline Cummins, Ltd.
is a joint venture in India with Ashland Inc., USA. This joint venture manufactures and distributes lubricants and oil related products in India which are used in automotive and industrial
applications. Products include transmission fluids, hydraulic lubricants, automotive filters, cooling system products, greases and specialty products.

•

Komatsu manufacturing alliances—Komatsu manufacturing
alliances consists of two manufacturing joint ventures and one design joint venture including Komatsu Cummins Engine Company (KCEC) in Japan and Cummins Komatsu Engine Company (CKEC) in the United
States (U.S.) with Komatsu Ltd. These joint ventures manufacture Cummins-designed medium-duty engines in Japan and Komatsu-designed high-horsepower engines in the U.S.
The industrial engine design joint venture is located in Japan.

•

Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine, LLC—Cummins
MerCruiser Diesel Marine, LLC (CMD) is a joint venture in the U.S. with Mercury Marine, a division of Brunswick Corporation, to develop, manufacture and sell recreational marine diesel
products, including engines, sterndrive packages, inboard packages, instrument and controls, service systems and replacement and service parts and assemblies, complete integration systems and other
related products. In the fourth quarter of 2011, Cummins Inc. and Mercury Marine announced a plan to dissolve their joint venture and to transition to a strategic supply arrangement between the
two companies to more effectively and efficiently serve customers in the global diesel marine market. All business activities will move from CMD to the parent companies, with completion of the
transition anticipated by mid-2012. CMD will conduct business as usual through the transition. Cummins will continue to use Mercury Marine drives and control systems in conjunction with
its extensive offering of mid-range and heavy-duty marine engines. This move will leverage Cummins' strong global distribution footprint and create additional synergy with
other Cummins recreational marine products, including marine generator sets offered under the Cummins Onan brand. The dissolution of the joint venture is not expected to have a significant impact on
the financial results of Cummins.

•

Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd.—Beijing Foton
Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Beijing Foton Motor Co., Ltd., a commercial vehicle manufacturer, which produces ISF 2.8 liter and
ISF 3.8 liter families of Cummins high performance light-duty diesel engines in Beijing. These engines are used in light-duty commercial trucks, pickup trucks,
multipurpose and sport utility vehicles. Certain types of marine, small construction equipment and industrial applications are also served by these engine families.

Non-Wholly-Owned Manufacturing Subsidiary

We have a controlling interest in Cummins India Ltd. (CIL), which is a publicly listed company on various stock exchanges in
India. CIL produces mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines, as well as generators for the Indian and export markets. CIL also produces compressed natural
gas spark-ignited engines licensed from another of our joint ventures. CIL's net income attributable to Cummins was $44 million, $46 million and $28 million for
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

SUPPLY

We source our materials and manufactured components from leading suppliers both domestically and internationally. We machine and
assemble some of the components
used in our engines and power generation units, including blocks, heads, turbochargers, connecting rods, camshafts, crankshafts, filters, exhaust systems, alternators and fuel systems. We single
source approximately 60 to 70 percent of the









total
types of parts in our product designs. We have long-term agreements with critical suppliers to help assure our capacity, delivery and quality requirements including one "take or pay"
contract with an emission solutions business supplier requiring us to purchase approximately $73 million annually from 2012 through 2018. Although we elect to source a relatively high
proportion of our total raw materials and component requirements from sole suppliers, we have established a process to annually review our sourcing strategies with a focus on the reduction of risk,
which has led us to dual source critical components, where possible, and establish programs to proactively detect suppliers with potential risks. We are also developing suppliers in many global or
emerging markets to serve our businesses across the globe and provide alternative sources in the event of disruption from existing suppliers.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

We own or control a significant number of patents and trademarks relating to the products we manufacture. These patents and trademarks
were granted and registered over a period of years. Although these patents and trademarks are generally considered beneficial to our operations, we do not believe any patent, group of patents, or
trademark (other than our leading brand house trademarks) is significant to our business.

SEASONALITY

While individual product lines may experience modest seasonal declines in production, there is no material effect on the demand for the
majority of our products on a quarterly basis with the exception that our Power Generation segment normally experiences seasonal declines in the first quarter due to general declines in construction
spending during this period and our Distribution segment normally experiences seasonal declines in its first quarter business activity due to holiday periods in Asia and Australia.

LARGEST CUSTOMERS

We have thousands of customers around the world and have developed long-standing business relationships with many of them.
PACCAR is our largest customer, accounting for approximately 12 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2011, compared to approximately seven percent in 2010 and nine percent in 2009. We have
long-term supply agreements with PACCAR for our heavy-duty ISX 15 liter and ISX 11.9 liter engines and our ISL 9 liter mid-range engine. While a
significant number of our sales to PACCAR are under long-term supply agreements, these agreements provide for particular engine requirements for specific vehicle models and not a specific
volume of engines. PACCAR is our only customer accounting for more than ten percent of our net sales in 2011. The loss of this customer or a significant decline in the production level of PACCAR
vehicles that use our engines would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have been an engine supplier to PACCAR for over 67 years. A summary of
principal customers for each operating segment is included in our segment discussion.

In
addition to our agreement with PACCAR, we have long-term heavy-duty engine supply agreements with Volvo Trucks North America and long-term
mid-range supply agreements with Daimler Trucks North America, Ford and MAN. We also have an agreement with Chrysler for supplying the engine for its Ram trucks. In our
off-highway markets, we have various engine and component supply agreements ranging across our midrange and high-horsepower businesses with Komatsu Ltd., as well as
various joint ventures and other license agreements in our Engine, Component and Distribution segments. Collectively, our net sales to these seven customers, including PACCAR, was approximately
31 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2011, compared to approximately 25 percent in 2010 and 23 percent in 2009. Excluding PACCAR, net sales to individual customers were
less than six percent of our consolidated net sales to any single customer in 2011, compared to less than four percent in 2010 and 2009. These agreements contain standard purchase and









sale
agreement terms covering engine and engine parts pricing, quality and delivery commitments, as well as engineering product support obligations. The basic nature of our agreements with OEM
customers is that they are long-term price and operations agreements that help assure the availability of our products to each customer through the duration of the respective agreements.
Agreements with most OEMs contain bilateral termination provisions giving either party the right to terminate in the event of a material breach, change of control or insolvency or bankruptcy of
the other party.

BACKLOG

Our 2011 lead times for the majority of our businesses remained consistent or improved from their 2010 levels. While we have supply
agreements with some truck and off-highway equipment OEMs, most of our business is transacted through open purchase orders. These open orders are historically subject to
month-to-month releases and are subject to cancellation on reasonable notice without cancellation charges and therefore are not considered firm.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSE

Our research and development program is focused on product improvements, innovations and cost reductions for our customers. Research
and development expenditures include salaries, contractor fees, building costs, utilities, administrative expenses and allocation of corporate costs and are expensed, net of contract reimbursements,
when incurred. Research and development expenses, net of contract reimbursements, were $621 million in 2011, $402 million in 2010 and $362 million in 2009. Contract reimbursements
were $75 million in 2011, $68 million in 2010 and $92 million in 2009.

For
2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately $1 million, $38 million and $151 million or less than one percent, nine percent and 42 percent respectively, of our
research and development expenditures were directly related to compliance with 2010 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) emission standards. For 2011 and 2010, approximately $104 million and
$36 million or 17 percent and nine percent, of our research and development expenditures were directly related to compliance with 2013 EPA emission standards. In 2011, we increased our
research, development and engineering expenses as we continued to invest in future critical technologies and products. We will continue to make investments to improve our current technologies,
continue to meet the future emission requirements around the world and improve fuel economy.

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

Sustainability

We continue to be a leader in sustainable business development and practices. We have invested significantly to further lower emissions
from and increase the efficiency of our products. Our ten climate change principles direct our actions to address this environmental challenge across our products, businesses, employees and
communities. We have worked collaboratively with customers to improve their fuel economy and reduce their carbon footprint. We have significantly reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our
facilities and exceeded our 2010 goal of 25 percent intensity reduction by achieving a 28 percent reduction, resulting in a savings of approximately $20 million annually. We will
continue these efforts through our new facility goal to expand this reduction to 40 percent GHG intensity reduction by 2015. Over the past three years, we have reduced water usage by
22 percent, reduced hazardous waste produced during manufacturing by 26 percent and landfill waste by 11 percent, normalized to employee hours. We have articulated our positions
on key public policy issues surrounding a wide range of environmental issues and were actively engaged in developing the first-ever GHG and fuel efficiency standards for commercial
vehicles that were finalized in the U.S. in 2010. For the seventh consecutive year, we were named to the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index, which recognizes the top 10 percent of the world's
largest 2,500 companies in economic,









environmental
and social leadership. Our sustainability report for 2010/2011 as well as a supplement of more detailed environmental data is available on our website at www.cummins.com.

Product Environmental Compliance

Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements that directly or indirectly impose standards governing
emission and noise. Our products comply with all current emission standards that the EPA, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) and other state and international regulatory agencies have
established for heavy-duty on-highway diesel and gas engines and off-highway engines. Our ability to comply with these and future emission standards is an essential
element in maintaining our leadership position in regulated markets. We have made, and will continue to make, significant capital and research expenditures to comply with these standards. Our failure
to comply with these standards could result in adverse effects on our future financial results.

EPA Engine Certifications

The current on-highway emission standards came into effect in the U.S. on January 1, 2010. To meet the 2010 U.S. EPA
heavy-duty on-highway emission standards, we used an evolution of our proven 2007 technology solution to maintain power and torque with substantial fuel economy improvement and
maintenance intervals comparable with our 2007 compliant engines. We offer a complete lineup of on-highway engines to meet the near-zero emission standards.
Mid-range and heavy-duty engines for EPA 2010 require NOx aftertreatment. NOx reduction is achieved by an integrated technology solution comprised of the XPI High Pressure
Common Rail fuel system, Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) technology, next-generation cooled exhaust gas recirculation (EGR), advanced electronic controls, proven air handling and the
Cummins Particulate Filter. For model year 2011 we made changes to the engine control module in response to EPA's and CARB's evolving SCR guidance. The EPA and CARB have certified that our engines
meet the 2011 emission requirements. Emission standards in international markets, including Europe, Japan, Mexico, Australia, Brazil, India and China are becoming more stringent. We believe that our
experience in meeting U.S. emission standards leaves us well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in these markets as the need for emission control capability grows.

Federal
and California regulations require manufacturers to report failures of emission-related components to the EPA and CARB when the failure rate reaches a specified level. At higher
failure rates, a product recall may be required. In 2011, we submitted five reports to the EPA relating to software corrections in our engine control module. These software corrections related to the
engine control module necessitated the campaigns of approximately 1,250 engines at a cost of less than $1 million.

Other Environmental Statutes and Regulations

Expenditures for environmental control activities and environmental remediation projects at our facilities in the U.S. have not been a
substantial portion of our annual capital outlays and are not expected to be material in 2012. Except as follows, we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with laws and regulations
applicable to our plants and operations.

In
the U.S., pursuant to notices received from federal and state agencies and/or defendant parties in site environmental contribution actions, we have been identified as a potentially
responsible party (PRP) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended or similar state laws, at approximately 20 waste disposal sites. Based upon
our experiences at similar sites we believe that our aggregate future remediation costs will not be significant. We have
established accruals that we believe are adequate for our expected future liability with respect to these sites.









In
addition, we have two other sites where we are working with governmental authorities on remediation projects. The costs for these remediation projects are not expected to be material.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 43,900 persons worldwide. Approximately 15,700 of our employees worldwide are
represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2012 and 2015.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information electronically with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "SEC"). You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and
information statements and other information that issuers (including Cummins) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's internet site is www.sec.gov.

Our
internet site is www.cummins.com. You can access our Investors and Media webpage through our internet site, by clicking on the heading "Investors and Media" followed by the "Investor
Relations" link. We make available, free of charge, on or through our Investors and Media webpage, our proxy statements, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.

We
also have a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access our Governance Documents webpage through our internet site, www.cummins.com, by clicking on the heading "Investors and Media,"
followed by the "Investor Relations" link and then the topic heading of "Governance Documents" within the "Corporate Governance" heading. Code of Conduct, Committee Charters and other governance
documents are included at this site. Our Code of Conduct applies to all employees, regardless of their position or the country in which they work. It also applies to the employees of any entity owned
or controlled by us. We will post any amendments to the Code of Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange LLC
(NYSE), on our internet site. The information on our internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.









EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Following are the names and ages of our executive officers, their positions with us as of January 31, 2012, and summaries of
their backgrounds and business experience:





Name and AgePresent Cummins Inc. position andyear appointed to positionPrincipal position during the pastfive years other than Cummins Inc.position currently held

N. Thomas Linebarger (49)Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (2012)President and Chief Operating Officer (2008-2011),Executive Vice President and President—Power Generation (2005-2008)

Sharon R. Barner (54)Vice President—General Counsel (2012)Partner—Law firm of Foley & Lardner (2011-2012)Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce—Intellectual Property and Deputy Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (2009-2011)Partner—Law firm of Foley & Lardner (1996-2009)

Jean S. Blackwell (57)Executive Vice President, Corporate Responsibility (2008)Executive Vice President—Chief Financial Officer (2005-2008)

Pamela L. Carter (62)Vice President and President—Distribution Business (2007)Vice President and President—Cummins Filtration (2005-2007)

Steven M. Chapman (57)Group Vice President—China and Russia (2009)Vice President—Emerging Markets and Businesses (2005-2009)

Jill E. Cook (48)Vice President—Human Resources (2003)

Richard J. Freeland (54)Vice President and President—Engine Business (2010)Vice President and President—Components Group (2008-2010), Vice President and President—Worldwide Distribution Business (2005-2008)

Mark R. Gerstle (56)Vice President—Community Relations (2011)Vice President—Chief Administrative Officer (2008-2011), Vice President—Corporate Quality and Chief Risk Officer (2005-2008)

Richard E. Harris (59)Vice President—Chief Investment Officer (2008)Vice President—Treasurer (2003-2008)

Marsha L. Hunt (48)Vice President—Corporate Controller (2003)

Marya M. Rose (49)Vice President—Chief Administrative Officer (2011)Vice President—General Counsel and Corporate Secretary (2001-2011)

Livingston L. Satterthwaite (51)Vice President and President—Power Generation (2008)Vice President—Generator Set Business (2003-2008)

Anant Talaulicar (50)Vice President and President—Components Group (2010)Vice President and Managing Director—India ABO (2004-present), Chairman and Managing Director—Cummins India Ltd. (2003-present)

John C. Wall (60)Vice President—Chief Technical Officer (2000)

Patrick J. Ward (48)Vice President—Chief Financial Officer (2008)Vice President—Engine Business Controller (2006-2008)

Lisa M. Yoder (48)Vice President—Global Supply Chain & Manufacturing (2011)Vice President—Corporate Supply Chain (2010-2011), Executive Director—Supply Chain & Operations-Power Generation (2007-2010)

Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is elected annually by our Board of Directors and holds office until the first meeting of the Board of
Directors following the annual meeting of the shareholders. Other officers are appointed by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, are ratified by our Board of Directors and hold office for such
period as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors may prescribe.









