ITEM 1.BUSINESS



GENERAL

Pentair, Inc. is a focused diversified industrial manufacturing
    company comprised of two operating segments: Water and Technical
    Products. Our Water Group is a global leader in providing
    innovative products and systems used worldwide in the movement,
    storage, treatment and enjoyment of water. Our Technical
    Products Group is a leader in the global enclosures and thermal
    management markets, designing and manufacturing standard,
    modified and custom enclosures that house and protect sensitive
    electronics and electrical components and protect the people
    that use them.



Pentair
    Strategy

Our strategy is to drive sustainable, profitable growth and
    Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) improvements
    through:



•building operational excellence through the Pentair Integrated
    Management System (“PIMS”) consisting of strategy
    deployment, lean enterprise and Rapid Growth Process, which is
    our process to drive organic growth;•driving long-term growth in sales, operating income and cash
    flows, through growth and productivity initiatives along with
    acquisitions;•developing new products and enhancing existing products;•penetrating attractive growth markets, particularly
    international;•expanding multi-channel distribution; and•proactively managing our business portfolio for optimal value
    creation, including consideration of new business platforms.



Unless the context otherwise indicates, references herein to
    “Pentair”, the “Company,” and such words as
    “we,” “us,” and “our” include
    Pentair, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Pentair is a Minnesota
    corporation that was incorporated in 1966.



BUSINESS
    AND PRODUCTS

Business segment and geographical financial information is
    contained in ITEM 8, Note 15 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, included in thisForm 10-K.



WATER
    GROUP

Our Water Group is a global leader in providing innovative
    products and systems used worldwide in the safe,
    energy-efficient movement, storage, treatment and enjoyment of
    water. Our Water Group offers a broad array of products and
    systems to multiple markets and customers. The core competencies
    of our Water Group center around flow and filtration. Our Water
    Group focuses its business portfolio in these primary vertical
    markets: Residential (55% of Group sales), Municipal and
    Desalination (14% of Group sales), Commercial (13% of Group
    sales), Industrial (13% of Group sales) and Agriculture (5% of
    Group sales). We are organized around the following global
    business units:



Residential
    Flow

Our Residential Flow business is a leader in global residential
    water pumps. We primarily serve residential well water
    installers and residential end-users, waste water dealers and
    distributors. We manufacture and sell products ranging from
    light duty diaphragm pumps to solid handling pumps designed for
    water and wastewater applications and agricultural spraying, as
    well as pressure tanks for residential applications.
    Applications for our broad range of products include pumps for
    residential wells, water treatment, wastewater solids handling,
    pressure boosting, engine cooling, fluid delivery, circulation
    and transfer.





Brand names for the Residential Flow business include
    STA-RITE®,

    Myers®,

    Hydromatic®,

    Flotec®,

    Hypro®,

    Berkeley®,

    Aermotor®,

    Simer®,

    Verti-line®,

    FoamPro®,

    Ongatm,

    Nocchitm,

    SHURflo®,

    Edwardstm,

    JUNG
    PUMPEN®and
    JUNGtm.



Residential
    Filtration

Our Residential Filtration business competes in residential and
    commercial water softening and filtration markets globally. We
    manufacture and sell control valves, pressure tanks, membranes,
    carbon products, point of entry and point of use systems and
    other filter cartridges. Residential Filtration products are
    used in the manufacture of water softeners; filtration and
    deionization systems; and commercial and residential water
    filtration applications.



Brand names for the Residential Filtration business include
    Fleck®,

    Autotrol®,

    Structuraltm,

    Aquamatic®,

    Pentek®,

    SIATAtm,

    WellMatetm,

    American
    Plumber®,

    GE®,

    OMNIFILTER®and
    Fibredynetm.



Our Residential Filtration business was formed by a transaction
    between GE Water & Process Technologies (a unit of
    General Electric Company) (“GE”) and Pentair.



Pool

Our Pool business manufactures and sells a complete line of
    commercial and residential pool equipment and accessories
    including pumps, filters, heaters and heat pumps, lights,
    automatic controls, automatic pool cleaners, commercial deck
    equipment, maintenance equipment and pool accessories.
    Applications for our pool products include commercial and
    residential pool maintenance, repair and renovation as well as
    service and construction. Our Pool business predominantly serves
    the North American market.



Brand names for the Pool business include Pentair Pool
    Products®,

    Pentair Water Pool and
    Spa®,

    STA-RITE®,

    Paragon
    Aquatics®,

    Kreepy
    Krauly®,

    Compool®,

    WhisperFlo®,

    PoolShark®,

    Legend®,

    Rainbowtm,

    FIBERworks®,

    IntelliTouch®,

    IntelliFlo®,

    IntelliChlor®,

    Ongatmand Pentair
    Piscinestm.



Engineered
    Flow

Our Engineered Flow business is a global leader in municipal,
    commercial and industrial water and fluid handling markets. We
    primarily serve commercial end-users; waste water dealers and
    distributors; commercial and industrial operations; and
    municipal water treatment facilities. We manufacture and sell
    products ranging from light duty diaphragm pumps to high-flow
    turbine pumps and solid handling pumps designed for water,
    wastewater and a variety of industrial applications.
    Applications for our broad range of products include pumps for
    municipal wells, water treatment, wastewater solids handling,
    pressure boosting, engine cooling, fluid delivery, circulation,
    fire suppression and transfer.



Brand names for the Engineered Flow business include
    Myers®,

    Aurora®,

    Hydromatic®,

    Fairbanks
    Morsetm,

    Layne/Verti-line®,

    FoamPro®,

    Edwards®,

    Aplex and Delta Environmental.



Filtration
    Solutions

Our Filtration Solutions business competes in selected
    commercial and industrial markets for both water and other fluid
    filtration as well as in desalination and reverse osmosis
    projects globally. We manufacture and sell filter systems,
    filter cartridges, pressure vessels and specialty dispensing
    pumps providing flow solutions for specific end-user market
    applications including, commercial, foodservice, industrial,
    marine and aviation. Filtration Solutions products are used in
    the manufacture of filtration, deionization and desalination
    systems; industrial and commercial water filtration
    applications; and filtration and separation technologies for
    hydrocarbon, medical and hydraulic applications.



Brand names for the Filtration Solutions business include
    Everpure®,

    SHURflo®,

    Porous
    Mediatmand
    CodeLine®.



Customers

Our Water Group distributes its products through wholesale
    distributors, retail distributors, original equipment
    manufacturers, home centers and home and pool builders.
    Information regarding significant customers in our





Water Group is contained in ITEM 8, Note 15 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in thisForm 10-K.



Seasonality

We experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within our
    Water Group. End-user demand for pool equipment follows warm
    weather trends and is at seasonal highs from April to August.
    The magnitude of the sales increase is partially mitigated by
    employing some advance sale “early buy” programs
    (generally including extended payment termsand/oradditional discounts). Demand for residential and agricultural
    water systems is also impacted by weather patterns, particularly
    by heavy flooding and droughts.



Competition

Our Water Group faces numerous domestic and international
    competitors, some of which have substantially greater resources
    directed to the markets in which we compete. Consolidation and
    globalization are continuing trends in the water industry.
    Competition in commercial and residential flow technologies
    markets focuses on brand names, product performance (including
    energy-efficient offerings), quality and price. While home
    center and national retailers are important for residential
    lines of water and wastewater pumps, they are not important for
    commercial pumps. For municipal pumps, competition focuses on
    performance to meet required specifications, service and price.
    Competition in water treatment and filtration components focuses
    on product performance and design, quality, delivery and price.
    For pool equipment, competition focuses on brand names, product
    performance (including energy-efficient offerings), quality and
    price. We compete by offering a wide variety of innovative and
    high-quality products, which are competitively priced. We
    believe our distribution channels and reputation for quality
    also contribute to our continuing market penetration.



TECHNICAL
    PRODUCTS GROUP

Our Technical Products Group is a leader in the global
    enclosures and thermal management markets, designing and
    manufacturing standard, modified and custom enclosures that
    house and protect sensitive electronics and electrical
    components and protect the people that use them. Our Technical
    Products Group focuses its business portfolio on the following
    primary vertical markets: Industrial (35% of Group sales),
    Communications (25% of Group sales), General Electronics (10% of
    Group sales), Energy (10% of Group sales) and Commercial,
    Security and Defense, Infrastructure and Medical (these four
    vertical markets combined represent approximately 20% of Group
    sales). Products include metallic and composite enclosures,
    cabinets, cases, subracks, backplanes and associated thermal
    management systems. Applications served include industrial
    machinery, data communications, networking, telecommunications,
    test and measurement, automotive, medical, security, defense and
    general electronics.



Brand names for the Technical Products Group business include
    Hoffman®,

    Schroff®,

    McLean®,

    Taunustm,

    Birtcher®,

    Calmark®and Aspen
    Motiontm.



Customers

Our Technical Products Group distributes its products through
    electrical and data contractors, electrical and electronic
    components distributors and original equipment manufacturers.
    Information regarding significant customers in our Technical
    Products Group is contained in ITEM 8, Note 15 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in thisForm 10-K.



Seasonality

Our Technical Products Group is not significantly affected by
    seasonal demand fluctuations.



Competition

Competition in the technical products markets can be intense,
    particularly in the Communications market, where product design,
    prototyping, global supply, price competition and customer
    service are significant factors. Our Technical Products Group
    has continued to focus on cost control and improving
    profitability. Recent sales increases in the Technical Products
    Group are the result of market recovery following the global
    recession in 2009. The growth derived from the market recovery
    was complemented by growth from initiatives





focused on product development, continued channel penetration,
    growth in targeted market segments, geographic expansion and
    price increases. Consolidation, globalization and outsourcing
    are visible trends in the technical products marketplace and
    typically play to the strengths of a large and globally
    positioned supplier. We believe our Technical Products Group has
    the global manufacturing capability and broad product portfolio
    to support the globalization and outsourcing trends.



INFORMATION
    REGARDING ALL BUSINESS SEGMENTS



Backlog



Our backlog of orders as of December 31 by segment was:



In thousands20102009$ change% changeWater Group$212,929$304,449$(91,520)(30.0)%Technical Products Group127,65894,50333,15535.1%Total$340,587$398,952$(58,365)(14.6)%





The $91.5 million decrease in Water Group backlog was
    primarily due to reduced backlog related to the Gulf
    Intracoastal Waterway project and other large municipal projects
    for the Engineered Flow global business unit at
    December 31, 2010. The $33.2 million increase in the
    Technical Products Group backlog reflected growth across our
    vertical markets served. Due to the relatively short
    manufacturing cycle and general industry practice for the
    majority of our businesses, backlog, which typically represents
    less than 60 days of shipments, is not deemed to be a
    significant item. A substantial portion of our revenues result
    from orders received and product sold in the same month. We
    expect that most of our backlog at December 31, 2010 will
    be filled in 2011.



Research
    and development

We conduct research and development activities in our own
    facilities, which consist primarily of the development of new
    products, product applications and manufacturing processes.
    Research and development expenditures during 2010, 2009 and 2008
    were $67.2 million, $57.9 million and
    $62.5 million, respectively.



Environmental

Environmental matters are discussed in ITEM 3, ITEM 7
    and in ITEM 8, Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements, included in thisForm 10-K.



Raw
    materials

The principal materials used in the manufacturing of our
    products are electric motors, mild steel, stainless steel,
    electronic components, plastics (resins, fiberglass, epoxies),
    copper and paint (powder and liquid). In addition to the
    purchase of raw materials, we purchase some finished goods for
    distribution through our sales channels.



The materials used in the various manufacturing processes are
    purchased on the open market and the majority are available
    through multiple sources and are in adequate supply. We have not
    experienced any significant work stoppages to date due to
    shortages of materials. We have certain long-term commitments,
    principally price commitments, for the purchase of various
    component parts and raw materials and believe that it is
    unlikely that any of these agreements would be terminated
    prematurely. Alternate sources of supply at competitive prices
    are available for most materials for which long-term commitments
    exist and we believe that the termination of any of these
    commitments would not have a material adverse effect on
    operations.



Certain commodities, such as metals and resin, are subject to
    market and duty-driven price fluctuations. We manage these
    fluctuations through several mechanisms, including long-term
    agreements with price adjustment clauses for significant
    commodity market movements in certain circumstances. Prices for
    raw materials, such as metals and resins, may trend higher in
    the future.





Intellectual
    property

Patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies,
    customer relationships, trade marks, trade names and brand names
    are important to our business. However, we do not regard our
    business as being materially dependent upon any single patent,
    non-compete agreement, proprietary technology, customer
    relationship, trade mark, trade name or brand name.



Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire
    or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with
    their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the termination of
    patents, patent applications or license agreements to have a
    material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
    operations or cash flows.



Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately
    14,300 people worldwide. Total employees in the United
    States were approximately 6,900, of whom approximately 475 are
    represented by four different trade unions having collective
    bargaining agreements. Generally, labor relations have been
    satisfactory.



Captive
    Insurance Subsidiary

We insure certain general and product liability, property,
    workers’ compensation and automobile liability risks
    through our regulated wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary,
    Penwald Insurance Company (“Penwald”). Reserves for
    policy claims are established based on actuarial projections of
    ultimate losses. Accruals with respect to liabilities insured by
    third parties, such as liabilities arising from acquired
    businesses, pre-Penwald liabilities and those of certain foreign
    operations are established.



Matters pertaining to Penwald are discussed in ITEM 3 and
    ITEM 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements — Insurance Subsidiary, included in thisForm 10-K.



Available
    information

We make available free of charge (other than an investor’s
    own Internet access charges) through our Internet website(http://www.pentair.com)our Annual Report onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-Kand if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or
    furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we electronically file such material with or
    furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Reports
    of beneficial ownership filed by our directors and executive
    officers pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 are also available on our website. We are
    not including the information contained on our website as part
    of or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



