ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

GENERAL

Pentair Ltd. is a focused diversified industrial manufacturing company comprising three reporting segments: Water & Fluid
Solutions, Valves & Controls and Technical Solutions. Water & Fluid Solutions designs, manufactures, markets and services innovative water management and fluid processing products and solutions. Valves & Controls designs,
manufactures, markets and services valves, fittings, automation and controls and actuators. Technical Solutions designs, manufactures and markets products that guard and protect some of the world’s most sensitive electronics and electronic
equipment, as well as heat management solutions designed to provide thermal protection to temperature sensitive fluid applications.

Pentair Strategy

Our strategy is
to drive sustainable, profitable growth and return on invested capital improvements through:

•building operational excellence through the Pentair Integrated Management System consisting of strategy deployment, lean enterprise and Rapid Growth
Process, which is our process to drive organic growth;

•driving long-term growth in sales, operating income and cash flows, through growth and productivity initiatives along with acquisitions;

•developing new products and enhancing existing products;

•penetrating attractive growth markets, particularly outside of the United States;

•expanding multi-channel distribution; and

•proactively managing our business portfolio for optimal value creation, including consideration of new business platforms.

Unless the context otherwise indicates, references herein to “Pentair,” the “Company,” and such words
as “we,” “us,” and “our” include Pentair Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We are a Swiss corporation limited by shares that was formed in 2000. We are the successor to Pentair, Inc., a Minnesota corporation
formed in 1966 and our wholly-owned subsidiary, under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).

HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT

Pentair Ltd.,
formerly known as Tyco Flow Control International Ltd. (as used prior to the Merger (as defined below), “Flow Control”), took its current form on September 28, 2012 as a result of a spin-off of Flow Control from its parent, Tyco
International Ltd. (“Tyco”), and a reverse acquisition involving Pentair, Inc.






Our registered principal office is located at Freier Platz 10, 8200 Schaffhausen, Switzerland. Our
management office in the United States is located at 5500 Wayzata Boulevard, Suite 800, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

BUSINESS AND PRODUCTS

Reporting segment and geographical financial information is contained in ITEM 8, Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, included in this Form 10-K.

WATER & FLUID SOLUTIONS

The Water & Fluid Solutions segment designs, manufactures, markets and services innovative water management and fluid processing products and solutions. In select geographies, Water &
Fluid Solutions offers a wide variety of pumps, valves and pipes for water transmission applications. The Flow Technologies, Filtration & Process, Aquatic Systems and Water & Environmental Systems Global Business Units
(“GBUs”) comprise this segment.

Water & Fluid Solutions offers a comprehensive product suite that addresses a broad array
of fluid handling needs, with products ranging from energy-efficient pumps and point-of-use filtration to engineered pumps and fluid processing systems, applicable for a wide range of residential/commercial construction, industrial, infrastructure
and food and beverage industry applications. In addition to these products, the Water & Fluid Solutions segment markets specialty products for environmental (emissions monitoring, water flow and quality monitoring and dust filter cleaning
systems), instrumentation (manifolds, enclosures and isolation valves) and other applications, including entire water and wastewater transmission and distribution systems. Significant brands include Aurora, Berkeley, Everpure, Fairbanks
Nijhuis™, Kreepy Krauly, Onga™, Pentair, Pentair Pool Products, Pentair Water Pool and Spa, STA-RITE, SHURflo, X-Flow, Sintakote and Sintaloc. Water & Fluid Solutions products are sold through wholesale and retail distributors,
original equipment manufacturers, home and pool builders, home centers and directly to end-users.

Customers

Water & Fluid Solutions customers include businesses engaged wholesale and retail distribution in the residential & commercial,
food & beverage, infrastructure, industrial and energy verticals. Customers also include end-users and consumers in the residential & commercial vertical.

Seasonality

We experience seasonal demand with several customers and end-users
within Water & Fluid Solutions. End-user demand for pool equipment follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from April to August. The magnitude of the sales increase is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale
“early buy” programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). Demand for residential and agricultural water systems is also impacted by weather patterns, particularly by heavy flooding and droughts.

Competition

Water & Fluid Solutions faces numerous domestic and international competitors, some of which have substantially greater resources directed to the
verticals in which we compete. Competition in Flow Technologies focuses on brand names, product performance (including energy-efficient offerings), quality and price. While home center and national retailers are important for residential lines of
water and wastewater pumps, they are not important for commercial pumps. For municipal pumps, competition focuses on performance to meet required specifications, service and price. Competition in Filtration & Process focuses on product
performance and design, quality, delivery and price. For Aquatic Systems, competition focuses on brand names, product performance (including energy-efficient offerings), quality and price. Competition in Water & Environmental Systems
focuses on price, quality, product performance and the ability to provide turnkey system solutions. We compete by offering a wide variety of innovative and high-quality products, which are competitively priced. We believe our distribution channels
and reputation for quality also contribute to our continuing market penetration.






VALVES & CONTROLS

The Valves & Controls segment designs, manufactures, markets and services valves, fittings, automation and controls and actuators for the industrial, food & beverage, infrastructure and
energy verticals and operates as a stand-alone GBU.

Valve products include a broad range of industrial valves, including on-off valves,
safety relief valves and other specialty valves. Actuation products include pneumatic, hydraulic and electric actuators. Control products include limit switches, solenoid valves, valve positioners, network systems and accessories.

Valves & Controls products are used in many applications including chemical, petrochemical, oil and gas, power generation, mining, food and
beverage, pulp and paper, wastewater and commercial irrigation. Valves & Controls also provides engineering, design, inspection, maintenance and repair services for its valves and related products. The product line is sold under many trade
names, including Biffi, Keystone, Vanessa, Anderson Greenwood and Crosby globally via its internal sales force and in some cases through a network of independent distributors.

Customers

Valves & Controls customers include businesses engaged in a wide
range of applications within the energy, infrastructure, industrial and food & beverage verticals. Customers include end-users as well as engineering, procurement and construction companies, contractors, original equipment manufacturers and
distributors.

Seasonality

Valves & Controls is not significantly affected by seasonal demand fluctuations.

Competition

The flow control
industry is highly fragmented, consisting of many local and regional companies and a few global competitors. We compete against a number of international, national and local manufacturers of industrial valves, as well as against specialized
manufacturers on the basis of product capability, product quality, breadth of product line, delivery, service capability and price. Our major competitors vary by region and by industry.

TECHNICAL SOLUTIONS

The Technical Solutions segment designs, manufactures and markets
products that guard and protect some of the world’s most sensitive electronics and electronic equipment, as well as heat management solutions designed to provide thermal protection to temperature sensitive fluid applications. The Equipment
Protection and Thermal Management GBUs comprise this segment.

Technical Solutions products include mild steel, stainless steel, aluminum and
non-metallic enclosures, cabinets, cases, subracks, backplanes and thermal management systems including heat tracing, snow melting/de-icing and temperature management equipment. Technical Solutions products are produced globally.

The portfolio of products serves a range of industries, including use in industrial, residential & commercial, food & beverage and
energy and industrial infrastructure verticals. Brand names for Technical Solutions offerings include Hoffman, Schroff, Raychem and Tracer. Technical Solutions products are sold largely through a global network of independent distributors and are
highly engineered and sold on a project basis via a network of sales and service professionals.

Customers

Technical Solutions customers include electrical distributors, data center contractors, original equipment manufacturers, contractors mainly of greenfield
developments and maintenance contractors. Technical Solutions has been able to develop a global installed base of customers.

Seasonality

Technical Solutions
is not significantly affected by seasonal demand fluctuations.






Competition

Within Technical Solutions, Equipment Protection faces significant competition in the markets it serves, particularly within the communications industry, where product design, prototyping, global supply,
price competition and customer service are significant factors. However, consolidation, globalization and outsourcing are visible trends in the Equipment Protection marketplace and typically play to the strengths of a large and globally positioned
supplier. The industries and markets served by the Thermal Management business are highly fragmented, comprising local markets and niches.

INFORMATION REGARDING ALL REPORTABLE SEGMENTS

Backlog of orders by segment



December 31In thousands20122011$ change% changeWater & Fluid Solutions$788,275$368,008$420,267114.2%Valves & Controls1,412,489—1,412,489—Technical Solutions290,353109,757180,596164.5Total$2,491,117$477,765$2,013,352421.4%

The Valves & Controls segment became effective with the Merger. Backlog from this segment consists of
business in the energy and industrial verticals. Generally, backlog from the Valves & Controls segment has a longer manufacturing cycle and products typically ship within six to twelve months of the date on which a customer places an
order. The increases in Water & Fluid Solutions and Technical Solutions backlogs resulted primarily from the Flow Control businesses as a result of the Merger. Backlog from these two segments typically has a shorter manufacturing
cycle and products generally ship within 90 days of the date on which a customer places an order. A substantial portion of these revenues result from orders received and product delivered in the same month. We record as part of our
backlog, all orders from external customers, which represent firm commitments and are supported by a purchase order or other legitimate contract. We expect most of our backlog from all segments at December 31, 2012 will be filled in 2013.

Research and development

We conduct research and development activities primarily in our own facilities. These efforts consist primarily of the development of new products, product applications and manufacturing processes.
Research and development expenditures during 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $93.6 million, $78.2 million and $67.2 million, respectively.

Environmental

Environmental
matters are discussed in ITEM 3, ITEM 7 and ITEM 8, Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Form 10-K.

Raw materials

The principal materials used in the manufacturing of our products are
electric motors, mild steel, stainless steel, electronic components, plastics (resins, fiberglass, epoxies), copper and paint (powder and liquid). In addition to the purchase of raw materials, we purchase some finished goods for distribution through
our sales channels.

The materials used in the various manufacturing processes are purchased on the open market and the majority is available
through multiple sources which are in adequate supply. We have not experienced any significant work stoppages to date due to shortages of materials. We have certain long-term commitments, principally price commitments, for the purchase of various
component parts and raw materials and believe that it is unlikely that any of these agreements would be terminated prematurely. Alternate sources of supply at competitive prices are available for most materials for which long-term commitments exist
and we believe that the termination of any of these commitments would not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.






Certain commodities, such as metals and resin, are subject to market and duty-driven price fluctuations. We
manage these fluctuations through several mechanisms, including long-term agreements with price adjustment clauses for significant commodity market movements in certain circumstances. Prices for raw materials, such as metals and resins, may trend
higher in the future.

Intellectual property

Patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies, customer relationships, trademarks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. However, we do not regard our business as being
materially dependent upon any single patent, non-compete agreement, proprietary technology, customer relationship, trademark, trade name or brand name.

Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the termination of patents, patent
applications or license agreements to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2012, we employed 29,700 people worldwide, of which 9,300 were in the United States and 15,000 were covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils. We believe that our relations with the labor unions have generally
been good.

Captive insurance subsidiary

We insure certain general and product liability, property, workers’ compensation and automobile liability risks through our regulated wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary, Penwald Insurance
Company (“Penwald”). Reserves for policy claims are established based on actuarial projections of ultimate losses. Accruals with respect to liabilities insured by third parties, such as liabilities arising from acquired businesses,
pre-Penwald liabilities and those of certain foreign operations are established.

Matters pertaining to Penwald are discussed in ITEM 3
and ITEM 8, Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Insurance Subsidiary, included in this Form 10-K.

Available information

We make
available free of charge (other than an investor’s own Internet access charges) through our Internet website (http://www.pentair.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and if
applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission. Reports of beneficial ownership filed by our directors and executive officers pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act are also available on our website. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of
or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

