ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERAL

Pentair, Inc. is a focused diversified industrial manufacturing company comprised of two operating segments: Water & Fluid Solutions and
Technical Products. Water & Fluid Solutions is a global leader in providing innovative products and systems used worldwide in the movement, storage, treatment and enjoyment of water. Technical Products is a leader in the global enclosures and
thermal management markets, designing and manufacturing standard, modified and custom enclosures that house and protect sensitive electronics and electrical components and protect the people that use them.

Pentair Strategy

Our strategy is
to drive sustainable, profitable growth and Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) improvements through:

•building operational excellence through the Pentair Integrated Management System (“PIMS”) consisting of strategy deployment, lean enterprise
and Rapid Growth Process, which is our process to drive organic growth;

•driving long-term growth in sales, operating income and cash flows, through growth and productivity initiatives along with acquisitions;

•developing new products and enhancing existing products;

•penetrating attractive growth markets, particularly international;

•expanding multi-channel distribution; and

•proactively managing our business portfolio for optimal value creation, including consideration of new business platforms.

Unless the context otherwise indicates, references herein to “Pentair”, the “Company,” and such words
as “we,” “us,” and “our” include Pentair, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Pentair is a Minnesota corporation that was incorporated in 1966.

BUSINESS AND PRODUCTS

Business segment and geographical financial information is contained
in ITEM 8, Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Form 10-K.

WATER & FLUID
SOLUTIONS

Pentair Water & Fluid Solutions is a leading provider of innovative water management and fluid processing products and
solutions. Our comprehensive product suite addresses a broad array of fluid handling needs, with products ranging from energy-efficient pumps and point-of-use filtration to engineered pumps and fluid processing systems. Water & Fluid
Solutions’ products have a wide range of residential, industrial, commercial, municipal and agricultural applications.

Water &
Fluid Solutions comprises the three platforms shown below:

Flow

In our Flow platform, we manufacture and sell products ranging from light duty diaphragm pumps to high-flow turbine pumps and solid handling pumps while serving the global residential, municipal,
commercial, industrial and agricultural end-markets. Our pumps are used in a range of applications, including use in residential and municipal wells, water treatment, wastewater solids handling, pressure boosting, engine cooling, fluid delivery,
circulation and transfer, fire suppression, flood control, agricultural irrigation and crop spray. The Flow platform is a combination of the former Residential Flow and Engineered Flow global business units.

Brand names for Flow include Aurora®, Berkeley®, Fairbanks
Morse™, Flotec®, Hydromatic®, Hypro®, JUNG PUMPEN®, Myers®, Nijhuis™, Onga™ and
STA-RITE®.







Treatment & Process

In our Treatment & Process platform, we manufacture and sell water and fluid treatment products and systems, including pressure tanks and vessels, control valves, activated carbon products,
conventional filtration products, point-of-entry and point-of-use systems, gas recovery solutions, membrane bioreactors, wastewater reuse systems and advanced membrane filtration and separation systems into the global residential, industrial,
commercial, and municipal end-markets. These products are used in a range of applications, including use in fluid filtration, ion exchange, desalination, food and beverage, food service, separation technologies for the oil and gas industry, medical
and hydraulic, marine and recreational vehicles. The Treatment & Process platform is a combination of the former Residential Filtration and Filtration Solutions global business units.

Brand names for Treatment & Process include Aquamatic®, Autotrol®, CodeLine®, Everpure®, Fleck®, Haffmans™,
OMNIFILTER®, Pentair®, SHURflo®, Structural™
and X-Flow®.

Aquatic Systems

In our Aquatic Systems platform, we manufacture and sell a complete
line of energy-efficient residential and commercial pool equipment and accessories including pumps, filters, heaters and heat pumps, lights, automatic controls, automatic cleaners, maintenance equipment and pool accessories. Applications for our
Aquatic Systems products include residential and commercial pool maintenance, pool repair, renovation, service and construction and aquaculture solutions. The Aquatic Systems platform is the former Pool global business unit.

Brand names for Aquatic Systems include Kreepy Krauly®, Onga™, Pentair®,
Pentair Pool Products®, Pentair Water Pool and Spa®and STA-RITE®.

Customers

Water & Fluid
Solutions distributes its products through wholesale distributors, retail distributors, original equipment manufacturers, home centers, home and pool builders and directly to customers and end-users. Information regarding significant customers in
Water & Fluid Solutions is contained in ITEM 8, Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Form 10-K.

Seasonality

We experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within
Water & Fluid Solutions. End-user demand for pool equipment follows warm weather trends and is at seasonal highs from April to August. The magnitude of the sales increase is partially mitigated by employing some advance sale “early
buy” programs (generally including extended payment terms and/or additional discounts). Demand for residential and agricultural water systems is also impacted by weather patterns, particularly by heavy flooding and droughts.

Competition

Water &
Fluid Solutions faces numerous domestic and international competitors, some of which have substantially greater resources directed to the markets in which we compete. Consolidation and globalization are continuing trends in the water industry.
Competition in commercial and residential flow technologies markets focuses on brand names, product performance (including energy-efficient offerings), quality and price. While home center and national retailers are important for residential lines
of water and wastewater pumps, they are not important for commercial pumps. For municipal pumps, competition focuses on performance to meet required specifications, service and price. Competition in fluid treatment, filtration and processing focuses
on product performance and design, quality, delivery and price. For pool equipment, competition focuses on brand names, product performance (including energy-efficient offerings), quality and price. We compete by offering a wide variety of
innovative and high-quality products, which are competitively priced. We believe our distribution channels and reputation for quality also contribute to our continuing market penetration.

TECHNICAL PRODUCTS

Pentair Technical Products is a leading provider of products that guard
and protect some of the world’s most sensitive electronics and electronic equipment, ensuring their safe, secure and reliable performance. Our







innovative product offering includes mild steel, stainless steel, aluminum and non-metallic enclosures, cabinets, cases, subracks, backplanes and associated thermal management systems. Our
products serve a range of end-markets, including use in industrial, communications (including telecommunications and data communications), networking, general electronics, energy, commercial infrastructure, security and defense and medical.

Brand names for Technical Products include Hoffman®, McLean®and Schroff®.

Customers

Technical Products
distributes its products through electrical and data contractors, electrical and electronic components distributors and original equipment manufacturers. Information regarding significant customers in Technical Products is contained in ITEM 8,
Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Form 10-K.

Seasonality

Technical Products is not significantly affected by seasonal demand fluctuations.

Competition

Competition in the technical products markets can be intense,
particularly in the Communications market, where product design, prototyping, global supply, price competition and customer service are significant factors. Technical Products has continued to focus on cost control and improving profitability.
Recent sales increases in Technical Products are the result of growth from initiatives focused on product development, continued channel penetration, growth in targeted market segments, geographic expansion and price increases. Consolidation,
globalization and outsourcing are visible trends in the technical products marketplace and typically play to the strengths of a large and globally positioned supplier. We believe Technical Products has the global manufacturing capability and broad
product portfolio to support the globalization and outsourcing trends.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

On May 12, 2011, we acquired as part of Water & Fluid Solutions, the Clean Process Technologies (“CPT) division of
privately held Norit Holding B.V. for $715.3 million (€502.7 million translated at the May 12, 2011 exchange rate). CPT’s results of operations have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition.
CPT is a global leader in membrane solutions and clean process technologies in the high growth water and beverage filtration and separation segments. CPT provides sustainable purification systems and solutions for desalination, water reuse,
industrial applications and beverage segments that effectively address the increasing challenges of clean water scarcity, rising energy costs and pollution. CPT’s product offerings include innovative ultrafiltration and nanofiltration membrane
technologies, aseptic valves, CO2recovery and control
systems and specialty pumping equipment. Based in the Netherlands, CPT has broad sales diversity with the majority of 2011 and 2010 revenues generated in European Union and Asia-Pacific countries.

INFORMATION REGARDING ALL BUSINESS SEGMENTS

Backlog

Our backlog of orders as of December 31 by segment was:



In thousands20112010$ change% changeWater & Fluid Solutions$368,008$212,929$155,07972.8%Technical Products109,757127,658(17,901)(14.0)%Total$477,765$340,587$137,17840.3%

The $155.1 million increase in Water & Fluid Solutions backlog was primarily due to increased backlog related to the
May, 2011 acquisition of CPT. The $17.9 million decrease in Technical Products backlog reflected larger telecommunications project backlog at December 31, 2010. Due to the relatively short manufacturing cycle and







general industry practice for the majority of our businesses, backlog, which typically represents less than 60 days of shipments, is not deemed to be a significant item. A substantial portion of
our revenues result from orders received and product sold in the same month. We expect that most of our backlog at December 31, 2011 will be filled in 2012.

Research and development

We primarily conduct research and development activities
in our own facilities. These efforts consist primarily of the development of new products, product applications and manufacturing processes. Research and development expenditures during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $78.2 million, $67.2 million and $57.9
million, respectively.

Environmental

Environmental matters are discussed in ITEM 3, ITEM 7 and in ITEM 8, Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Form 10-K.

Raw materials

The principal
materials used in the manufacturing of our products are electric motors, mild steel, stainless steel, electronic components, plastics (resins, fiberglass, epoxies), copper and paint (powder and liquid). In addition to the purchase of raw materials,
we purchase some finished goods for distribution through our sales channels.

The materials used in the various manufacturing processes are
purchased on the open market and the majority are available through multiple sources and are in adequate supply. We have not experienced any significant work stoppages to date due to shortages of materials. We have certain long-term commitments,
principally price commitments, for the purchase of various component parts and raw materials and believe that it is unlikely that any of these agreements would be terminated prematurely. Alternate sources of supply at competitive prices are
available for most materials for which long-term commitments exist and we believe that the termination of any of these commitments would not have a material adverse effect on operations.

Certain commodities, such as metals and resin, are subject to market and duty-driven price fluctuations. We manage these fluctuations through several mechanisms, including long-term agreements with price
adjustment clauses for significant commodity market movements in certain circumstances. Prices for raw materials, such as metals and resins, may trend higher in the future.

Intellectual property

Patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies,
customer relationships, trade marks, trade names and brand names are important to our business. However, we do not regard our business as being materially dependent upon any single patent, non-compete agreement, proprietary technology, customer
relationship, trade mark, trade name or brand name.

Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire or terminate over time by
operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the termination of patents, patent applications or license agreements to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 15,300 people worldwide. Total employees in the United States were approximately 6,900, of whom approximately 440 are represented by four different trade unions having collective bargaining
agreements. Generally, labor relations have been satisfactory.

Captive insurance subsidiary

We insure certain general and product liability, property, workers’ compensation and automobile liability risks through our regulated wholly-owned
captive insurance subsidiary, Penwald Insurance Company (“Penwald”). Reserves for policy claims are established based on actuarial projections of ultimate losses. Accruals with respect to liabilities insured by third parties, such as
liabilities arising from acquired businesses, pre-Penwald liabilities and those of certain foreign operations are established.







Matters pertaining to Penwald are discussed in ITEM 3 and ITEM 8, Note 1 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements – Insurance Subsidiary, included in this Form 10-K.

Available information

We make available free of charge (other than an investor’s own Internet access charges) through our Internet website (http://www.pentair.com)
our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Reports of beneficial ownership filed by our directors and executive officers pursuant to Section 16(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are also available on our website. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



