ITEM 1.BUSINESS



GENERAL

Pentair, Inc. is a focused diversified industrial manufacturing
    company comprised of two operating segments: Water and Technical
    Products. Our Water Group is a global leader in providing
    innovative products and systems used worldwide in the movement,
    storage, treatment, and enjoyment of water. Our Technical
    Products Group is a leader in the global enclosures and thermal
    management markets, designing and manufacturing standard,
    modified and custom enclosures that house and protect sensitive
    electronics and electrical components, and protect the people
    that use them.



Pentair
    Strategy

Our strategy is to achieve benchmark Return on Invested Capital
    (“ROIC”) performance for diversified industrial
    manufacturing companies by:



•building operational excellence through the Pentair Integrated
    Management System (“PIMS”) consisting of strategy
    deployment, lean enterprise, and IGNITE, which is our process to
    drive organic growth;•driving long-term growth in sales, income and cash flows,
    through internal growth initiatives and acquisitions;•developing new products and enhancing existing products;•penetrating attractive growth markets, particularly
    international;•expanding multi-channel distribution; and•proactively managing our business portfolio, including
    consideration of new business platforms.



Pentair Financial Objectives



Our long-term financial objectives are to:



•Achieve 5%+ annual organic sales growth, plus acquisitions•Achieve benchmark financial performance:



•   Earnings Before Interest and Taxes
    (“EBIT”) Margin14%•   ROIC (after-tax)15%•   Free Cash Flow (“FCF”)100% conversion of net income•   Earnings Per Share (“EPS”)
    Growth10%+ (sales growth plus margin expansion)





•Achieve 5% annual productivity improvement on core business cost



Unless the context otherwise indicates, references herein to
    “Pentair”, the “Company,” and such words as
    “we,” “us,” and “our” include
    Pentair, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Pentair is a Minnesota
    corporation that was incorporated in 1966.



BUSINESS
    AND PRODUCTS

Business segment and geographical financial information is
    contained in ITEM 8, Note 15 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, included in thisForm 10-K.



WATER
    GROUP

Our Water Group is a global leader in providing innovative
    products and systems used worldwide in the movement, storage,
    treatment, and enjoyment of water. Our Water Group offers a
    broad array of products and systems to multiple markets and
    customers. The core competencies of our Water Group center
    around flow and filtration. We have identified a target market
    totaling $60 billion, with our current primary focus on
    three markets: Flow Technologies (approximately 40% of group
    sales), Filtration (approximately 30% of group sales), and Pool
    (approximately 30% of group sales).





Residential
    Flow Market

Our Residential Flow business is a leader in the global
    residential water pump market. Our primary markets are those
    serving residential well water installers, distributors and
    residential end users; waste water dealers and distributors and
    those participants in the agricultural irrigation and crop
    protection industries. We also have offerings into the
    RV / Marine and Mobile Fire markets. We address these
    markets with products ranging from light duty diaphragm pumps to
    submersible, sump and sewage pumps to pumps for agricultural
    irrigation and crop spraying. In addition to pumps, we offer
    pressure tanks for multiple residential applications.
    Application for our broad range of products includes pumps for
    fluid delivery, circulation, transfer, pressure boosting, and
    engine cooling.



Trade names for the Residential Flow markets include
    STA-RITE®,

    Myers®,

    Hydromatic®,

    Flotec®,

    Water
    Ace®,

    Berkeley®,

    Aermotortm,

    Simer®,

    Hypro®,

    FoamPro®,

    SHURflo®,

    Ongatm,

    Nocchitm,

    and
    JUNG®.



Residential
    Filtration Market

Our Residential Filtration business competes in residential and
    commercial water softening and filtration markets globally. We
    address the market with control valves, pressure tanks,
    membranes, carbon products, point of entry and point of use
    systems, and other filter cartridges. Residential Filtration
    products are used in the manufacture of water softeners;
    filtration and deionization systems; and commercial and
    residential water filtration applications.



Trade names for the Residential Filtration market include
    Fleck®,

    Autotrol®,

    Structuraltm,

    Aquamatic®,

    Pentek®,

    SIATAtm,

    WellMatetm,

    American
    Plumber®,

    GE®,

    OMNIFILTER®,

    and
    Fibredynetm.



Our Residential Filtration business was formed by a transaction
    between GE Water & Process Technologies (a unit of
    General Electric Company) (“GE”) and Pentair.



Pool
    Market

We address the Pool equipment market with a complete line of
    commercial and residential pool equipment and accessories
    including pumps, filters, heaters, lights, automatic controls,
    automatic pool cleaners, commercial deck equipment, maintenance
    equipment, and pool accessories. Applications for our pool
    products include commercial and residential pool construction,
    maintenance, repair, and service.



Trade names for the Pool market include Pentair Pool
    Products®,

    Pentair Water Pool and
    Spatm,

    STA-RITE®,

    Paragon
    Aquatics®,

    Kreepy
    Krauly®,

    WhisperFlo®,

    Rainbowtm,

    IntelliTouchtm,

    IntelliFlo®,

    IntelliBrite®,

    IntelliChlor®,

    EasyTouch®,

    SunTouch®,

    EQ
    Seriestmand
    Acu-Trol®.



Engineered
    Flow Market

Our Engineered Flow business is a global leader in municipal,
    commercial and industrial water and fluid handling markets. Our
    primary markets are those serving commercial end-users; waste
    water dealers and distributors; commercial and industrial
    operations; and municipal water treatment facilities. We address
    these markets with products ranging from light duty diaphragm
    pumps to high-flow turbine pumps and solid handling pumps
    designed for water, wastewater and a variety of industrial
    applications. Applications for our broad range of products
    include pumps for municipal wells, water treatment, wastewater
    solids handling, pressure boosting, engine cooling, fluid
    delivery, circulation, fire suppression and transfer.



Trade names for the Engineered Flow market include,
    Myers®,

    Aurora®,

    Hydromatic®,

    Fairbanks
    Morsetm,

    Layne/Verti-line®,

    FoamPro®,

    Edwards®,

    Aplex and Delta Environmental.



Filtration
    Solutions

Our Filtration Solutions business competes in selected
    commercial and industrial markets for both water and other fluid
    filtration, largely in the United States; and for desalination
    and reverse osmosis projects globally. We address these markets
    with filter systems, filter cartridges, pressure vessels, and
    specialty dispensing pumps providing flow solutions for specific
    end-user market applications including, commercial, foodservice,
    industrial, marine, and aviation. Filtration products are used
    in the manufacture of filtration, deionization, and





desalination systems; industrial and commercial water filtration
    applications; and filtration and separation technologies for
    hydrocarbon, medical and hydraulic applications.



Trade names for the Filtration Solutions market include
    Everpure®,

    SHURflo®,

    CodeLine®,

    and Porous
    Mediatm.



Customers

Our Water Group distributes its products through wholesale
    distributors, retail distributors, original equipment
    manufacturers, home centers and home and pool builders.
    Information regarding significant customers in our Water Group
    is contained in ITEM 8, Note 15 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, included in thisForm 10-K.



Seasonality

We experience seasonal demand in a number of markets within our
    Water Group. End-user demand for pool equipment follows warm
    weather trends and is at seasonal highs from April to August.
    The magnitude of the sales spike is partially mitigated by
    employing some advance sale “early buy” programs
    (generally including extended payment termsand/oradditional discounts). Demand for residential and agricultural
    water systems is also impacted by weather patterns, particularly
    by heavy flooding and droughts.



Competition

Our Water Group faces numerous domestic and international
    competitors, some of which have substantially greater resources
    directed to the markets in which we compete. Consolidation,
    globalization, and outsourcing are continuing trends in the
    water industry. Competition in commercial and residential flow
    technologies markets focuses on trade names, product
    performance, quality, and price. While home center and national
    retailers are important for residential lines of water and
    wastewater pumps, they are not important for commercial pumps.
    For municipal pumps, competition focuses on performance to meet
    required specifications, service, and price. Competition in
    water treatment and filtration components focuses on product
    performance and design, quality, delivery, and price. For pool
    equipment, competition focuses on trade names, product
    performance, quality, and price. We compete by offering a wide
    variety of innovative and high-quality products, which are
    competitively priced. We believe our distribution channels and
    reputation for quality also contribute to our continuing market
    penetration.



TECHNICAL
    PRODUCTS GROUP

Our Technical Products Group is a leader in the global
    enclosures and thermal management markets, designing and
    manufacturing standard, modified, and custom enclosures that
    house and protect sensitive electronics and electrical
    components and protect the people that use them. We have
    identified a target market of $11 billion. Our Technical
    Products Group focuses its business portfolio on eight primary
    vertical markets: Industrial (35% of group sales),
    Communications (25% of group sales), General Electronics (10% of
    group sales), Energy (10% of group sales), and Commercial,
    Security and Defense, Infrastructure and Medical (these four
    vertical combined represent approximately 20% of group sales).
    The primary trade names for the Technical Products Group are:
    Hoffman®,

    Schroff®,

    McLean®,

    Taunustm,

    Birtcher®,

    Calmark®and Aspen
    Motiontm.

    Products include metallic and composite enclosures, cabinets,
    cases, subracks, backplanes and associated thermal management
    systems. Applications served include industrial machinery, data
    communications, networking, telecommunications, test and
    measurement, automotive, medical, security, defense, and general
    electronics.



Customers

Our Technical Products Group distributes its products through
    electrical and data contractors, electrical and electronic
    components distributors, and original equipment manufacturers.
    Information regarding significant customers in our Technical
    Products Group is contained in ITEM 8, Note 15 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in thisForm 10-K.



Seasonality

Our Technical Products Group is not significantly affected by
    seasonal demand fluctuations.





Competition

Competition in the technical products markets can be intense,
    particularly in the Communications market, where product design,
    prototyping, global supply, price competition, and customer
    service are significant factors. Our Technical Products Group
    has continued to focus on cost control and improving
    profitability. Recent sales decreases in the Technical Products
    Group are the result of market declines due to the global
    recession. The impact of these market declines has been
    partially offset by growth initiatives focused on product
    development, continued channel penetration, growth in targeted
    market segments, geographic expansion, and price increases.
    Consolidation, globalization, and outsourcing are visible trends
    in the technical products marketplace and typically play to the
    strengths of a large and globally positioned supplier. We
    believe our Technical Products Group has the global
    manufacturing capability and broad product portfolio to support
    the globalization and outsourcing trends.



RECENT
    DEVELOPMENTS

Growth
    of our business

We continually look at each of our businesses to determine
    whether they fit with our strategic vision. Our primary focus is
    on businesses with strong fundamentals and growth opportunities,
    including international markets. We seek growth through product
    and service innovation, market expansion, and acquisitions.
    Acquisitions have played an important part in the growth of our
    business, and we expect acquisitions to be an important part of
    our future growth. There were no material acquisitions or
    divestitures completed in 2009.



Also refer to ITEM 7, Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis, and ITEM 8, Note 3 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, included in thisForm 10-K.



INFORMATION
    REGARDING ALL BUSINESS SEGMENTS



Backlog



Our backlog of orders as of December 31 by segment was:



In thousands20092008$ change% changeWater Group$304,449$324,748$(20,299)(6.3)%Technical Products Group94,503111,678(17,175)(15.4)%Total$398,952$436,426$(37,474)(8.6)%





The $20.3 million decrease in Water Group backlog was
    primarily due to decreased backlog for the Filtration Solutions
    CodeLine product line, capacity constraints in 2008 led to above
    average backlogs, compounded by volume declines in Q4 2009.
    These decreases were partially offset by the timing of the early
    buy program shipments in residential pool markets. The
    $17.2 million decrease in the Technical Products Group
    backlog reflected declining market conditions, especially in our
    Electronics markets. Due to the relatively short manufacturing
    cycle and general industry practice for the majority of our
    businesses, backlog, which typically represents less than
    60 days of shipments, is not deemed to be material. A
    substantial portion of our revenues result from orders received
    and product sold in the same month. We expect that most of our
    backlog at December 31, 2009 will be filled in 2010.



Research
    and development

We conduct research and development activities in our own
    facilities, which consist primarily of the development of new
    products, product applications, and manufacturing processes.
    Research and development expenditures during 2009, 2008, and
    2007 were $57.9 million, $62.5 million, and
    $56.8 million, respectively.



Environmental

Environmental matters are discussed in ITEM 3, ITEM 7,
    and in ITEM 8, Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements, included in thisForm 10-K.





Raw
    materials

The principal materials used in the manufacturing of our
    products are electric motors, mild steel, stainless steel,
    electronic components, plastics (resins, fiberglass, epoxies),
    and paint (powder and liquid). In addition to the purchase of
    raw materials, we purchase some finished goods for distribution
    through our sales channels.



The materials used in the various manufacturing processes are
    purchased on the open market, and the majority are available
    through multiple sources and are in adequate supply. We have not
    experienced any significant work stoppages to-date due to
    shortages of materials. We have certain long-term commitments,
    principally price commitments, for the purchase of various
    component parts and raw materials and believe that it is
    unlikely that any of these agreements would be terminated
    prematurely. Alternate sources of supply at competitive prices
    are available for most materials for which long-term commitments
    exist, and we believe that the termination of any of these
    commitments would not have a material adverse effect on
    operations.



Certain commodities, such as metals and resin, are subject to
    market and duty-driven price fluctuations. We manage these
    fluctuations through several mechanisms, including long-term
    agreements with escalator / de-escalator clauses.
    Prices for raw materials, such as metals and resins, may trend
    higher in the future.



Intellectual
    property

Patents, non-compete agreements, proprietary technologies,
    customer relationships, trade marks and trade names are
    important to our business. However, we do not regard our
    business as being materially dependent upon any single patent,
    non-compete agreement, proprietary technology, customer
    relationship, trade mark and trade name.



Patents, patent applications, and license agreements will expire
    or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with
    their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the termination of
    patents, patent applications, and license agreements to have a
    material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
    operations or cash flows.



Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately
    13,150 people worldwide. Total employees in the United
    States were approximately 6,600, of whom approximately 530 are
    represented by five different trade unions having collective
    bargaining agreements. Generally, labor relations have been
    satisfactory.



Captive
    Insurance Subsidiary

We insure certain general and product liability, property,
    workers’ compensation, and automobile liability risks
    through our regulated wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary,
    Penwald Insurance Company (“Penwald”). Reserves for
    policy claims are established based on actuarial projections of
    ultimate losses. Accruals with respect to liabilities insured by
    third parties, such as liabilities arising from acquired
    businesses, pre-Penwald liabilities and those of certain foreign
    operations are established without regard to the availability of
    insurance.



Matters pertaining to Penwald are discussed in ITEM 3 and
    ITEM 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements, included in thisForm 10-K.



Available
    information

We make available free of charge (other than an investor’s
    own Internet access charges) through our Internet website(http://www.pentair.com)our Annual Report onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-K,and if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or
    furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
    furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Reports
    of beneficial ownership filed by our directors and executive
    officers pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 are also available on our website. We are
    not including the information contained on our website as part
    of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report onForm 10-K.





