Item 1.  Business

General

Bank of America Corporation (together, with its consolidated subsidiaries, Bank of America, the Corporation, we or us) is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company and a financial holding company. When used in this report, “the Corporation” may refer to the Corporation individually, the Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of the Corporation’s subsidiaries or affiliates.

Bank of America is one of the world’s largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses, institutional investors, large corporations and governments with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. Our principal executive offices are located in the Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255.

Bank of America’s website is www.bankofamerica.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website at http://investor.bankofamerica.com under the heading U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Filings as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the SEC. In addition, we make available on http://investor.bankofamerica.com under the heading Corporate Governance: (i) our Code of Ethics (including our insider trading policy); (ii) our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) the charter of each committee of our Board of Directors (the Board) (accessible by clicking on the committee names under the Committee Composition link), and we also intend to disclose any amendments to our Code of Ethics, or waivers of our Code of Ethics on behalf of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer, on our website. All of these corporate governance materials are also available free of charge in print to stockholders who request them in writing to: Bank of America Corporation, Attention: Shareholder Relations, Hearst Tower, 214 North Tryon Street, NC1-027-20-05, Charlotte, North Carolina 28202.



Segments

Through our banking and various nonbanking subsidiaries throughout the United States and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbanking financial services and products through six business segments:Deposits, Card Services, Consumer Real Estate Services (CRES), Global Commercial Banking, Global Banking & Markets (GBAM) and Global Wealth & Investment Management (GWIM), with the remaining operations recorded inAll Other. Additional information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide is included in the information set forth on pages39through55of Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), andNote 26 – Business Segment Informationto the Consolidated Financial Statementsin Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (Consolidated Financial Statements).

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies and e-commerce and other internet-based companies. We compete with some of these competitors globally and with others on a regional or product basis.

Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience. Our ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs.

Employees

As ofDecember 31, 2011, we had approximately282,000full-time equivalent employees. None of our domestic employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Management considers our employee relations to be good.





Bank of America1






Government Supervision and Regulation

The following discussion describes, among other things, elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies, financial holding companies and banks, including specific information about Bank of America. U.S. federal regulation of banks, bank holding companies and financial holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) rather than for the protection of stockholders and creditors. For additional information about recent regulatory programs, initiatives and legislation that impact us, seeRegulatory Mattersin the MD&A on page66.

General

We are subject to an extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies, financial holding companies and banks.

As a registered financial holding company and bank holding company, Bank of America Corporation is subject to the supervision of, and regular inspection by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). Our banking subsidiaries (the Banks) organized as national banking associations are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Federal Reserve. The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (CFPB) regulates consumer financial products and services.

U.S. financial holding companies, and the companies under their control, are permitted to engage in activities considered “financial in nature” as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related Federal Reserve interpretations. Unless otherwise limited by the Federal Reserve, a financial holding company may engage directly or indirectly in activities considered financial in nature provided the financial holding company gives the Federal Reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also permits national banks to engage in activities considered financial in nature through a financial subsidiary, subject to certain conditions and limitations and with the approval of the OCC. If the Federal Reserve finds that any of the Banks is not “well-capitalized” or “well-managed,” we would be required to enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements, which may contain additional limitations or conditions relating to our activities.

The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 permits bank holding companies to acquire banks located in states other than their home state without regard to state law, subject to certain conditions, including the condition that the bank holding company, after and as a result of the acquisition, controls no more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the United States and no more than 30 percent or such lesser or greater amount set by state law of such deposits in that state. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Financial Reform Act) restricts acquisitions by financial companies if, as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial company would exceed 10 percent of the total liabilities of all financial companies. At December 31, 2011, we held approximately 12 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S.

We are also subject to various other laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect our operations and



management and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our U.S. broker/dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by and supervision of the SEC, New York Stock Exchange and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority; our commodities businesses in the U.S. are subject to regulation by and supervision of the U.S. Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC); and our insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies.

Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, central banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. Our financial services operations in the U.K. are subject to regulation by and supervision of the Financial Services Authority (FSA). In July of 2010, the U.K. proposed abolishing the FSA and replacing it with the Financial Policy Committee within the Bank of England (FPC) and two new regulators, the Prudential Regulatory Authority and the Consumer Protection and Markets Authority (CPMA). Our U.K. regulated entities will be subject to the supervision of the FPC and the PRA for prudential matters and the CPMA for conduct of business matters. The new financial regulatory structure is intended to be in place by the end of 2012. We continue to monitor the development and potential impact of this regulatory restructuring.

Financial Reform Act

On July 21, 2010, the Financial Reform Act was signed into law. As a result of the Financial Reform Act, several significant regulatory developments occurred in 2011, and additional regulatory developments may occur in 2012 and beyond. The Financial Reform Act has had, and will continue to have, a significant and negative impact on our earnings through fee reductions, higher costs and new restrictions. For a description of significant developments seeRegulatory Mattersin the MD&A on page66.

Capital and Operational Requirements

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), among other things, identifies five capital categories for insured depository institutions (“well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized”) and requires the respective federal regulatory agencies to implement systems for “prompt corrective action” for insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements within such categories. FDICIA imposes progressively restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the category in which an institution is classified. Failure to meet the capital guidelines could also subject a banking institution to capital-raising requirements. An “undercapitalized” bank must develop a capital restoration plan and its parent holding company must guarantee that bank’s compliance with the plan.

As a financial services holding company, we are subject to the risk-based capital guidelines issued by the Federal Reserve (Basel I) and risk-based capital guidelines issued by other U.S. banking regulators. Under these guidelines, we measure capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, Tier 2 capital and Total capital (Tier 1 plus Tier 2 capital). Capital ratios are calculated by dividing each capital amount by risk-weighted assets. Under Basel I, the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio is four percent and the minimum total capital ratio is eight percent. A “well-capitalized” institution must generally





2Bank of America 2011






maintain capital ratios an additional two percentage points higher than these minimum guidelines.

While not an explicit requirement of law or regulation, bank regulatory agencies have stated that they expect common equity to be the primary component of a financial holding company’s Tier 1 capital and that financial holding companies should maintain a Tier 1 common capital ratio of at least four percent.

The Tier 1 leverage ratio is determined by dividing Tier 1 capital by adjusted quarterly average total assets, after certain adjustments. “Well-capitalized” bank holding companies must have a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of four percent and not be subject to a Federal Reserve directive to maintain higher capital levels. “Well-capitalized” national banks must maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least five percent and not be subject to a Federal Reserve directive to maintain higher capital levels. We are currently classified as “well-capitalized” under Basel I.

The Basel II Final Rule (Basel II) was published in December 2007 and established requirements for U.S. implementation of Basel II and provided detailed requirements for a new regulatory capital framework. This regulatory capital framework includes requirements related to credit and operational risk (Pillar 1), supervisory requirements (Pillar 2) and disclosure requirements (Pillar 3). We are currently in the Basel II parallel period.

On December 29, 2011, U.S. regulators issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPR) that would amend a December 2010 NPR on the Market Risk Rules. This amended NPR is expected to increase the capital requirements for our trading assets and liabilities. We continue to evaluate the capital impact of the proposed rules and currently anticipate that we will be in compliance with any final rules by the projected implementation date in late 2012.

On June 17, 2011, U.S. banking regulators proposed rules requiring all large bank holding companies (BHCs) to submit a comprehensive capital plan to the Federal Reserve as part of an annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). The proposed regulations require BHCs to demonstrate adequate capital to support planned capital actions, such as dividends,



share repurchases or other forms of distributing capital. CCAR submissions are subject to approval by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve may require BHCs to provide prior notice under certain circumstances before making a capital distribution.

On July 19, 2011, the Basel Committee published the consultative document “Globally systemic important banks: Assessment methodology and the additional loss absorbency requirement” which sets out measures for global, systemically important financial institutions including the methodology for measuring systemic importance, the additional capital required (the SIFI buffer), and the arrangements by which they will be phased in. As proposed, the SIFI buffer would be met with additional Tier 1 common equity ranging fromone percentto2.5 percent, and in certain circumstances,3.5 percent. This will be phased in from 2016 through 2018. U.S. banking regulators have not yet provided similar rules for U.S. implementation of a SIFI buffer.

In addition to the capital proposals, in December 2010 the Basel Committee proposed two measures of liquidity risk. The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) identifies the amount of unencumbered, high-quality liquid assets a financial institution holds that can be used to offset the net cash outflows the institution would encounter under an acute 30-day stress scenario. The Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) measures the amount of longer-term, stable sources of funding employed by a financial institution relative to the liquidity profiles of the assets funded and the potential for contingent calls on funding liability arising from off-balance sheet commitments and obligations, over a one-year period. These two minimum liquidity measures are also considered part of Basel III.

Given that the U.S. regulatory agencies have issued neither proposed rulemaking nor supervisory guidance on Basel III, significant uncertainty exists regarding the ultimate impacts of Basel III on U.S. financial institutions, including us.

For additional information about our calculation of regulatory capital and capital composition, seeCapital Management – Regulatory Capitalin the MD&A on page72, andNote 18 – Regulatory Requirements and Restrictionsto the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information about regulatory capital changes, seeCapital Management – Regulatory Capital Changesin the MD&A on page73.

Distributions

We are subject to various regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain capital above regulatory minimums. The appropriate federal regulatory authority is authorized to determine, under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank or bank holding company, that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. For instance, under proposed rules we are required to submit to the Federal Reserve a capital plan as part of an annual CCAR (the Capital Plan). Supervisory review of the CCAR has a stated purpose of assessing the capital planning process of major U.S. bank holding companies, including any planned capital actions such as the payment of dividends on common stock. For additional information regarding the restrictions on our ability to receive dividends or other distributions from the Banks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.

In addition, our ability to pay dividends is affected by the various minimum capital requirements and the capital and non-capital standards established under FDICIA, as described above. The right





Bank of America3






of the Corporation, our stockholders and our creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of our subsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of the respective subsidiaries.

For additional information regarding the requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including the minimum capital requirements, seeNote 15 – Shareholders’ EquityandNote 18 – Regulatory Requirements and Restrictionsto the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Source of Strength

According to the Financial Reform Act and Federal Reserve policy, bank holding companies are expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the FDICIA, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC - either as a result of default of a banking subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of default - the affiliate banks of such a subsidiary may be assessed for the FDIC’s loss, subject to certain exceptions. For additional information about our calculation of regulatory capital and capital composition, and proposed capital rules, seeCapital Management – Regulatory Capitalin the MD&A on page72, andNote 18 – Regulatory Requirements and Restrictionsto the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Deposit Insurance

Deposits placed at U.S. domiciled Banks (U.S. Banks) are insured by the FDIC, subject to limits and conditions of applicable law and the FDIC’s regulations. Pursuant to the Financial Reform Act, FDIC insurance coverage limits were permanently increased to $250,000 per customer. The Financial Reform Act also provides for unlimited FDIC insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing demand deposit accounts for a two-year period beginning on December 31, 2010 and ending on January 1, 2013. All insured depository institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC in order to fund the DIF.

The FDIC is required to maintain at least a designated minimum ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the U.S. The Financial Reform Act requires the FDIC to assess insured depository institutions to achieve a DIF ratio of at least 1.35 percent by September 30, 2020. The FDIC has adopted new regulations that establish a long-term target DIF ratio of greater than two percent. The DIF ratio is currently below the required targets and the FDIC has adopted a restoration plan that will result in substantially higher deposit insurance assessments for all depository institutions over the coming years. Deposit insurance assessment rates are subject to change by the FDIC and will be impacted by the overall economy and the stability of the banking industry as a whole. For additional information regarding deposit insurance, seeItem 1A. Risk Factors – Regulatory and Legal Riskon page14andRegulatory Matters – Financial Reform ActandRegulatory Matters – FDIC Deposit Insurance Assessmentsin the MD&A on pages66and67.

Transactions with Affiliates

U.S. Banks are subject to restrictions under federal law that limit certain types of transactions between the Banks and their non-bank affiliates. In general, U.S. Banks are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets and certain other transactions involving Bank of America and its non-bank affiliates. Transactions between the U.S. Banks and their



non-bank affiliates are required to be on arm’s length terms. For additional information regarding transactions with affiliates, seeRegulatory Matters – Transactions with Affiliatesin the MD&A on page68.

Privacy and Information Security

We are subject to many U.S. federal, state and international laws and regulations governing requirements for maintaining policies and procedures to protect the non-public confidential information of our customers. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires the Banks to periodically disclose Bank of America’s privacy policies and practices relating to sharing such information and enables retail customers to opt out of our ability to market to affiliates and non-affiliates under certain circumstances. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also requires the Banks to implement a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information. These security and privacy policies and procedures for the protection of personal and confidential information are in effect across all businesses and geographic locations.



