Item 1.Business



General

Bank of America Corporation (together, with its consolidated
    subsidiaries, Bank of America, the Corporation, our company, we
    or us) is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company and a
    financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. When
    used in this report, “the Corporation” may refer to
    the Corporation individually, the Corporation and its
    subsidiaries, or certain of the Corporation’s subsidiaries
    or affiliates. Our principal executive offices are located in
    the Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street,
    Charlotte, North Carolina 28255.

Bank of America is one of the world’s largest financial
    institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and
    middle-market businesses, large corporations and governments
    with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and
    other financial and risk management products and services.
    Through our banking subsidiaries (the Banks) and various
    nonbanking subsidiaries throughout the United States and in
    certain international markets, we provide a diversified range of
    banking and nonbanking financial services and products through
    six business segments:Deposits, Global Card Services, Home
    Loans & Insurance, Global Commercial Banking, Global
    Banking & Markets (GBAM)andGlobal
    Wealth & Investment Management (GWIM), with the
    remaining operations recorded inAll Other. Effective
    January 1, 2010, we realigned theGlobal Corporate and
    Investment Bankingportion of the formerGlobal Bankingbusiness segment with the formerGlobal Markets
    business segment to formGBAMand to reflectGlobal Commercial Bankingas a standalone segment.

We are a global franchise, serving customers and clients around
    the world with operations in all 50 U.S. states, the
    District of Columbia and more than 40non-U.S. countries.As of December 31, 2010, our U.S. retail banking
    footprint includes approximately 80 percent of the
    U.S. population, and we serve approximately 57 million
    consumer and small business relationships with approximately
    5,900 retail banking offices, approximately 18,000 ATMs,
    nationwide call centers, and the leading online and mobile
    banking platforms. We have banking centers in 13 of the 15
    fastest growing states and have leadership positions in market
    share for deposits in seven of those states. We offer
    industry-leading support to approximately four million small
    business owners. We have the No. 1 market share in
    U.S. retail deposits and are the No. 1 issuer of debit
    cards in the United States. We have the No. 2 market share
    in credit card products in the United States and we are the
    No. 1 credit card lender in Europe. We have approximately
    5,300 mortgage loan officers



and are the No. 1 mortgage servicer and No. 2 mortgage
    originator in the United States.

In addition, as of December 31, 2010, our commercial and
    corporate clients include 98 percent of the
    U.S. Fortune 1,000 and 85 percent of the Global
    Fortune 500 and we serve more than 11,000 issuer clients and
    3,500 institutional investors. We are the No. 1 treasury
    services provider in the United States and a leading provider
    globally. We are a leading provider globally in corporate and
    investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset
    classes serving corporations, governments, institutions and
    individuals around the world. We have one of the largest wealth
    management businesses in the world with nearly 17,000 financial
    and wealth advisors and 3,000 other client-facing professionals
    and more than $2.2 trillion in net client balances, and we are a
    leading wealth manager forhigh-net-worthand ultra-high-net-worth clients. Additional information
    relating to our businesses and our subsidiaries is included in
    the information set forth in pages 38 through 51 of Item 7,
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations (MD&A) andNote 26 – Business Segment Informationto
    the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
    Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
    (Consolidated Financial Statements).

Bank of America’s website is www.bankofamerica.com. Our
    Annual Reports onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 are available on our website athttp://investor.bankofamerica.comunder the heading SEC Filings as soon as reasonably practicable
    after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it
    to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition,
    we make available onhttp://investor.bankofamerica.comunder the heading Corporate Governance: (i) our Code of
    Ethics (including our insider trading policy); (ii) our
    Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) the charter of
    each committee of our Board of Directors (the Board) (accessible
    by clicking on the committee names under the Committee
    Composition link), and we also intend to disclose any amendments
    to our Code of Ethics, or waivers of our Code of Ethics on
    behalf of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer
    or Chief Accounting Officer, on our website. All of these
    corporate governance materials are also available free of charge
    in print to stockholders who request them in writing to: Bank of
    America Corporation, Attention: Shareholder Relations, Hearst
    Tower, 214 North Tryon Street, NC1-027-20-05, Charlotte, North
    Carolina 28202.













Bank of America








Competition

We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors
    include banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banking firms,
    investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment
    companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies,
    credit card issuers, mutual fund companies ande-commerceand other internet-based companies in addition to those
    competitors discussed more specifically below. We compete with
    some of these competitors globally and with others on a regional
    or product basis. Competition is based on a number of factors
    including, among others, customer service, quality and range of
    products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates
    on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience.
    Our ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in
    large part on our ability to attract new employees and retain
    and motivate our existing employees, while managing compensation
    and other costs.

More specifically, ourDepositsbusiness segment competes
    with banks, thrifts, credit unions, finance companies and other
    nonbank organizations offering financial services. OurGlobal
    Commercial Bankingbusiness segment competes with local,
    regional and international banks and nonbank financial
    organizations. OurGBAMandGWIMbusiness segments
    compete with U.S. and international commercial banking and
    investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage
    firms, investment companies, mutual funds, hedge funds, private
    equity funds, trust banks, multi-family offices, advice
    boutiques and other organizations offering similar services and
    other investment alternatives available to investors. OurHome Loans & Insurancebusiness segment
    competes with banks, thrifts, mortgage brokers, Fannie Mae
    (FNMA) and Freddie Mac (FHLMC) (collectively, the government
    sponsored enterprises (GSEs)), and other nonbank organizations
    offering mortgage banking, mortgage and insurance related
    services. OurGlobal Card Servicesbusiness segment
    competes in the United States and internationally with banks,
    consumer finance companies and retail stores with private label
    credit and debit cards.

We also compete actively for funds. A primary source of funds
    for the Banks is deposits, and competition for deposits includes
    other deposit-taking organizations, such as banks, thrifts and
    credit unions, as well as money market mutual funds. Investment
    banks and other entities that became bank holding companies and
    financial holding companies as a result of the recent financial
    crisis are also competitors for deposits. In addition, we
    compete for funding in the domestic and international short-term
    and long-term debt securities capital markets.

Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry
    have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a
    broad range of financial services have been acquired by or
    merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. As a
    result, this consolidation within the financial services
    industry has significantly increased the capital base and
    geographic reach of some of our competitors and also hastened
    the globalization of the securities markets. These developments
    could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater
    capital and other resources or having stronger local presences
    and longer operating histories outside the United States.





Our ability to expand certain of our banking operations in
    additional U.S. states remains subject to various federal
    and state laws. See Government Supervision and
    Regulation – General below for a more detailed
    discussion of interstate banking and branching legislation and
    certain state legislation.



Employees

As of December 31, 2010, there were approximately
    288,000 full-time equivalent employees with Bank of
    America. Of these employees, approximately 80,700 were employed
    withinDeposits, approximately 15,000 were employed
    withinGlobal Card Services, approximately 58,200 were
    employed withinHome Loans & Insurance,
    approximately 7,100 were employed withinGlobal Commercial
    Banking, approximately 34,300 were employed withinGBAMand approximately 40,300 were employed withinGWIM.
    The remainder were employed elsewhere within our company
    including various staff and support functions.

None of our domestic employees is subject to a collective
    bargaining agreement. Management considers our employee
    relations to be good.



Acquisition and
    Disposition Activity

As part of our operations, we regularly evaluate the potential
    acquisition of, and hold discussions with, various financial
    institutions and other businesses of a type eligible for
    financial holding company ownership or control. In addition, we
    regularly analyze the values of, and submit bids for, the
    acquisition of customer-based funds and other liabilities and
    assets of such financial institutions and other businesses. We
    also regularly consider the potential disposition of certain of
    our assets, branches, subsidiaries or lines of businesses. As a
    general rule, we publicly announce any material acquisitions or
    dispositions when a material definitive agreement has been
    reached.

On January 1, 2009, we completed the acquisition of Merrill
    Lynch. Additional information on our acquisitions is included inNote 2 – Merger and Restructuring Activityto the Consolidated Financial Statements which is
    incorporated herein by reference.



Government
    Supervision and Regulation

The following discussion describes, among other things, elements
    of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding
    companies, financial holding companies and banks, including
    specific information about Bank of America. U.S. federal
    regulation of banks, bank holding companies and financial
    holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of
    depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) rather than for
    the protection of stockholders and creditors. For additional
    information about recent regulatory programs, initiatives and
    legislation that impact us, see Regulatory Matters in the
    MD&A beginning on page 56.













2Bank
    of America 2010








General

As a registered financial holding company and bank holding
    company, Bank of America Corporation is subject to the
    supervision of, and regular inspection by, the Board of
    Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board).
    The Banks are organized as national banking associations, which
    are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the
    Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (Comptroller or OCC),
    the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the Federal
    Reserve Board and other federal and state regulatory agencies.

A U.S. financial holding company, and the companies under
    its control, are permitted to engage in activities considered
    “financial in nature” as defined by the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related Federal Reserve Board
    interpretations (including, without limitation, insurance and
    securities activities), and therefore may engage in a broader
    range of activities than permitted for bank holding companies
    and their subsidiaries, which are only permitted to engage in
    activities that are closely related to the business of banking.
    Unless otherwise limited by the Federal Reserve Board, a
    financial holding company may engage directly or indirectly in
    activities considered financial in nature, either de novo or by
    acquisition, provided the financial holding company gives the
    Federal Reserve Boardafter-the-factnotice of the new activities. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also
    permits national banks, such as the Banks, to engage in
    activities considered financial in nature through a financial
    subsidiary, subject to certain conditions and limitations and
    with the approval of the OCC. If the Federal Reserve Board finds
    that any of the Banks is not well-capitalized or well-managed,
    we would be required to enter into an agreement with the Federal
    Reserve Board to comply with all applicable capital and
    management requirements, which may contain additional
    limitations or conditions relating to our activities.

U.S. bank holding companies (including bank holding
    companies that also are financial holding companies) are also
    required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve
    Board before acquiring more than five percent of any class of
    voting stock of any non-affiliated bank. Pursuant to the
    Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of
    1994 (Interstate Banking and Branching Act), a bank holding
    company may acquire banks located in states other than its home
    state without regard to the permissibility of such acquisitions
    under state law, but subject to any state requirement that the



bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of
    time, not to exceed five years, and the federal requirement that
    the bank holding company, after and as a result of the proposed
    acquisition, controls no more than 10 percent of the total
    amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the
    United States and no more than 30 percent or such lesser or
    greater amount set by state law of such deposits in that state.
    Subject to certain restrictions, the Interstate Banking and
    Branching Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines
    to create interstate banks. At December 31, 2010, we
    controlled approximately 12 percent of the total amount of
    deposits of insured depository institutions in the United States.

In addition to banking laws, regulations and regulatory
    agencies, we are subject to various other laws and regulations,
    as well as supervision and examination by other regulatory
    agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect our
    operations and management and our ability to make distributions
    to stockholders. For example, our U.S. broker dealer
    subsidiaries are subject to regulation by and supervision of the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the New York Stock
    Exchange and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
    (FINRA); our commodities businesses in the United States are
    subject to regulation by and supervision of the Commodities
    Futures Trading Commission (CFTC); and our insurance activities
    are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance
    regulatory agencies.

Ournon-U.S. businessesare also subject to extensive regulation by variousnon-U.S. regulators,including governments, securities exchanges, central banks and
    other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those
    businesses operate. Our financial services operations in the
    United Kingdom (U.K.) are subject to regulation by and
    supervision of the Financial Services Authority (FSA). In July
    of 2010, the U.K. proposed abolishing the FSA and replacing it
    with the Financial Policy Committee within the Bank of England
    (FPC) and two new Regulators, the Prudential Regulatory
    Authority (PRA) and the Consumer Protection and Markets
    Authority (CPMA). Our U.K. regulated entities will be subject to
    the supervision of the FPC within the Bank of England for
    prudential matters and the CPMA for conduct of business matters.
    The new financial regulatory structure is intended to be in
    place by the end of 2012. We continue to monitor the development
    and potential impact of this regulatory restructuring.













Bank of America








Changes in
    Legislation and Regulations

Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the
    banking and financial services industries are frequently
    introduced in Congress, in state legislatures and before the
    various bank regulatory or financial regulatory agencies as well
    as by lawmakers and regulators in jurisdictions outside the
    United States where we operate. Congress and the federal
    government have continued to evaluate and develop legislation,
    programs and initiatives designed to, among other things,
    stabilize the financial and housing markets, stimulate the
    economy, including the federal government’s foreclosure
    prevention program, and prevent future financial crises by
    further regulating the financial services industry. As a result
    of the recent financial crisis and the ongoing challenging
    economic environment, we anticipate additional legislative and
    regulatory proposals and initiatives as well as continued
    legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services
    industry. However, at this time we cannot determine the final
    form of any proposed programs or initiatives or related
    legislation, the likelihood and timing of any other future
    proposals or legislation, and the impact they might have on us.

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
    Consumer Protection Act (Financial Reform Act) was signed into
    law. The Financial Reform Act provides for sweeping financial
    regulatory reform and will alter the way in which we conduct
    certain businesses.

The Financial Reform Act contains a broad range of significant
    provisions that could affect our businesses, including, without
    limitation, the following:



•mandating that the Federal Reserve Board limit debit card
    interchange fees;

•banning banking organizations from engaging in proprietary
    trading and restricting their sponsorship of, or investing in,
    hedge funds and private equity funds, subject to limited
    exceptions;

•increasing regulation of the derivative markets through measures
    that broaden the derivative instruments subject to regulation
    and requiring clearing and exchange trading as well as imposing
    additional capital and margin requirements for derivative market
    participants;

•changing the assessment base used in calculating FDIC deposit
    insurance fees from assessable deposits to total assets less
    tangible capital;

•providing for heightened capital, liquidity, and prudential
    regulation and supervision over systemically important financial
    institutions;

•providing for new resolution authority to establish a process to
    unwind large systemically important financial institutions and
    requiring the development and implementation of recovery and
    resolution plans;

•creating a new regulatory body to set requirements around the
    terms and conditions of consumer financial products and
    expanding the role of state regulators in enforcing consumer
    protection requirements over banks.

•disqualifying trust preferred securities and certain other
    hybrid capital securities from Tier 1 capital;

•including a variety of corporate governance and executive
    compensation provisions and requirements; and

•requiring securitizers to retain a portion of the risk that
    would otherwise be transferred into certain securitization
    transactions.

The Financial Reform Act has had, and will continue to have, a
    significant and negative impact on our earnings through fee
    reductions, higher costs and new restrictions, by reducing
    available capital. The Financial Reform Act also has had and may
    continue to have a material adverse impact on the value of
    certain assets and liabilities held on our balance sheet. As
    previously announced on July 16, 2010, as a result of the
    Financial Reform Act and its related rules and subject to final
    rulemaking over the next year, we believe that our debit card
    revenue will be adversely impacted beginning in the third
    quarter of 2011. In 2010, our estimate of revenue loss due to
    the Financial



Reform Act was approximately $2.0 billion annually. As a
    result, we recorded a non-tax deductible goodwill impairment
    charge forGlobal Card Servicesof $10.4 billion in
    2010. The goodwill impairment analysis includes limited
    mitigation actions withinGlobal Card Servicesto
    recapture the lost revenue. We have identified other potential
    mitigation actions, but they are in the early stages of
    development and some of them may impact other segments. For
    additional information, refer to Complex Accounting
    Estimates – Goodwill and Intangible Assets–Global Card Services Impairment, in the
    MD&A beginning on page 110 andNote 10 – Goodwill and Intangible Assetsto the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We anticipate that the final regulations associated with the
    Financial Reform Act will include limitations on certain
    activities, including limitations on the use of a bank’s
    own capital for proprietary trading and sponsorship or
    investment in hedge funds and private equity funds (Volcker
    Rule). Regulations implementing the Volcker Rule are required to
    be in place by October 21, 2011, and the Volcker Rule
    becomes effective 12 months after such rules are final or
    on July 21, 2012, whichever is earlier. The Volcker Rule
    then gives banking entities two years from the effective date
    (with opportunities for additional extensions) to bring
    activities and investments into conformance. In anticipation of
    the adoption of the final regulations, we have begun winding
    down our proprietary trading line of business. The ultimate
    impact of the Volcker Rule or the winding down of this business,
    and the time it will take to comply or complete, continues to
    remain uncertain. The final regulations issued may impose
    additional operational and compliance costs on us.

Additionally, the Financial Reform Act includes measures to
    broaden the scope of derivative instruments subject to
    regulation by requiring clearing and exchange trading of certain
    derivatives, imposing new capital and margin requirements for
    certain market participants and imposing position limits on
    certainover-the-counterderivatives. The Financial Reform Act grants the
    U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the
    SEC substantial new authority and requires numerous rulemakings
    by these agencies. Generally, the CFTC and SEC have until
    July 16, 2011 to promulgate the rulemakings necessary to
    implement these regulations. The ultimate impact of these
    derivatives regulations, and the time it will take to comply,
    continues to remain uncertain. The final regulations will impose
    additional operational and compliance costs on us and may
    require us to restructure certain businesses and negatively
    impact our revenues and results of operations.

Although the ratings agencies have indicated that our credit
    ratings currently reflect their expectation that, if necessary,
    we would receive significant support from the
    U.S. government, all three major ratings agencies have
    indicated they will reevaluate, and could reduce the uplift they
    include in our ratings for government support for reasons
    arising from financial services regulatory reform proposals or
    legislation. In the event of certain credit ratings downgrades,
    our access to credit markets, liquidity and our related funding
    costs would be materially adversely affected. For additional
    information about our credit ratings, see Capital Management and
    Liquidity Risk in the MD&A beginning on pages 63 and 67,
    respectively.

Most provisions of the Financial Reform Act require various
    federal banking and securities regulators to issue regulations
    to clarify and implement its provisions or to conduct studies on
    significant issues. These proposed regulations and studies are
    generally subject to a public notice and comment period. The
    timing of issuance of final regulations, their effective dates
    and their potential impacts to our businesses will be determined
    over the coming months and years. As a result, the ultimate
    impact of the Financial Reform Act’s final rules on our
    businesses and results of operations will depend on regulatory
    interpretation and rulemaking, as well as the success of any of
    our actions to mitigate the negative earnings impact of certain
    provisions.













4Bank
    of America 2010








Capital and
    Operational Requirements

Our Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios under these
    guidelines at December 31, 2010 were 11.24 percent and
    15.77 percent. At December 31, 2010, we had no
    subordinated debt that qualified as Tier 3 capital. While
    not an explicit requirement of law or regulation, bank
    regulatory agencies have stated that they expect shares of
    common stock to be the primary component of a financial holding
    company’s Tier 1 capital and that financial holding
    companies should maintain a Tier 1 common capital ratio of
    at least four percent. The Tier 1 common capital ratio is
    determined by dividing Tier 1 common capital by
    risk-weighted assets. We calculate Tier 1 common capital as
    Tier 1 capital, which includes CES, less preferred stock,
    trust preferred securities, hybrid securities and noncontrolling
    interest. As of December 31, 2010, our Tier 1 common
    capital ratio was 8.60 percent.

The leverage ratio is determined by dividing Tier 1 capital
    by adjusted quarterly average total assets, after certain
    adjustments. “Well-capitalized” bank holding companies
    must have a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of four percent
    and not be subject to a Federal Reserve Board directive to
    maintain higher capital levels. “Well-Capitalized”
    national banks must maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at
    least five percent and not be subject to a Federal Reserve Board
    directive to maintain higher capital levels. Our leverage ratio
    at December 31, 2010 was 7.21 percent, which exceeded
    our leverage ratio requirement. For additional information about
    our calculation of regulatory capital and capital composition,
    see Capital Management – Regulatory Capital in the
    MD&A beginning on page 63, andNote 18 – Regulatory Requirements and
    Restrictionsto the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
    1991 (FDICIA), among other things, identifies five capital
    categories for insured



The various regulatory agencies have adopted substantially
    similar regulations that define the five capital categories
    identified by FDICIA, using the total risk-based capital,
    Tier 1 risk-based capital and leverage capital ratios as
    the relevant capital measures. Such regulations establish
    various degrees of corrective action to be taken when an
    institution is considered undercapitalized. Under the
    regulations, a “well-capitalized” institution must
    have a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least six
    percent, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least ten
    percent and a leverage ratio of at least five percent and not be
    subject to a capital directive order. Under these guidelines,
    each of the Banks was considered well capitalized as of
    December 31, 2010.

Pursuant to FDICIA, regulators also must take into
    consideration: (a) concentrations of credit risk;
    (b) interest rate risk; and (c) risks from
    non-traditional banking activities, such as derivatives,
    securities and insurance activities, as well as an
    institution’s ability to manage those risks, when
    determining the adequacy of an institution’s capital. This
    evaluation is made as a part of the institution’s regular
    safety and soundness examination. In addition, Bank of America
    Corporation, and any Bank with significant trading activity,
    must incorporate a measure for market risk in their regulatory
    capital calculations.

In June 2004, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the
    Basel Committee) published the Basel II Accord with the
    intent of more closely aligning regulatory capital requirements
    with underlying risks, similar to economic capital. While
    economic capital is measured to cover unexpected losses, the
    Corporation also manages regulatory capital to adhere to
    regulatory standards of capital adequacy. The Basel Committee,
    which consists of central banks and bank supervisors from 13
    countries including the United States, does not possess any
    formal supervisory or legal authority over institutions in its
    member countries. Instead, the Basel Committee formulates
    supervisory guidelines that it recommends to its member
    countries with the expectation that these guidelines will be
    implemented in a manner best suited to each country’s own
    national system.

The Basel II Final Rule (Basel II) was published in
    December 2007 and established requirements for
    U.S. implementation of the Basel II Rules and provided
    detailed requirements for a new regulatory capital framework.
    This regulatory capital framework includes requirements related
    to credit and operational risk (Pillar 1), supervisory
    requirements (Pillar 2) and disclosure requirements (Pillar
    3). The Corporation began Basel II parallel implementation
    on April 1, 2010.













Bank of America






Designated U.S. financial institutions are required to
    complete a minimum parallel qualification period under
    Basel II of four consecutive successful quarters before
    receiving regulatory approval to report regulatory capital using
    the Basel II methodology and exiting the parallel period.
    During the parallel period, the resulting capital calculations
    under both the current risk-based capital rules (Basel
    I) and Basel II will be reported to the financial
    institutions’ regulatory supervisors. Once the parallel
    period is successfully completed and we have received approval
    to exit parallel, we will transition to Basel II as the
    methodology for calculating regulatory capital. Basel II
    provides for a three-year transitional floor subsequent to
    exiting parallel, after which Basel I may be discontinued. The
    Collins Amendment within the Financial Reform Act and the
    U.S. banking regulators’ subsequent Notice of Proposed
    Rulemaking published by the Federal Reserve Board on
    December 14, 2010 propose however that the current
    three-year transitional floors under Basel II be replaced
    with a permanent risk based capital floor as defined under Basel
    I.

On December 16, 2010, U.S. regulators issued a Notice
    of Proposed Rulemaking on the Risk-Based Capital Guidelines for
    Market Risk (Market Risk Rules), reflecting partial adoption of
    the Basel Committee’s July 2009 consultative document on
    the topic. We anticipate U.S. regulators will adopt the
    Market Risk Rules in mid-2011. This change is expected to
    significantly increase the capital requirements for our trading
    assets and liabilities, including derivatives exposures which
    meet the definition established by the regulatory agencies. We
    continue to evaluate the capital impact of the proposed rules
    and currently anticipate being fully compliant with any final
    rules by the projected implementation date of year-end 2011.

Note 25 – Mortgage Servicing Rights

Note 21 – Income
    Taxes

If Basel III is implemented in the U.S. consistent
    with Basel Committee rules, beginning in January 2013, we would
    be required to maintain minimum capital ratio requirements of
    6.0 percent for Tier 1 capital and 8.0 percent
    for Total capital. The proposed minimum requirement for common
    equity Tier 1 capital is 3.5 percent in 2013 and would
    increase to 4.5 percent in 2015. Basel III also
    includes three capital buffers which would be phased in over
    time and impact all three capital ratios. These buffers include
    a capital conservation buffer that would start at
    0.63 percent in 2016 and increase to 2.5 percent in
    2019. Thus, the minimum capital ratio requirements including the
    capital conservation buffer in 2019 would be 7.0 percent
    for common equity Tier 1 capital, 8.5 percent for
    Tier 1 capital and 10.5 percent



for Total capital. If ratios fall below the minimum requirement
    plus the capital conservation buffer, such as 10.5 percent
    for Total capital, an institution would be required to restrict
    dividends, share repurchases and discretionary bonuses.
    Additionally, Basel III also includes a countercyclical
    buffer of up to 2.5 percent that regulators could require
    in periods of excess credit growth. The countercyclical buffer
    is to be comprised of loss-absorbing capital, such as common
    equity, and is meant to retain additional capital during periods
    of strong credit expansion, providing incremental protection in
    the event of a material market downturn. The ratios presented
    above do not include the third buffer requirement for
    systemically important financial institutions, which the Basel
    Committee continues to assess and has not yet quantified. The
    countercyclical and systemic buffers are scheduled to be phased
    in from 2013 through 2019. U.S. regulators are expected to
    begin the rulemaking processes for Basel III in early 2011
    and have indicated a goal to adopt final rules by end of 2011 or
    early 2012.

These regulatory changes also require approval by the regulatory
    agencies of analytical models used as part of our capital
    measurement and assessment, especially in the case of more
    complex models. If these more complex models are not approved,
    it could require financial institutions to hold additional
    capital, which in some cases could be significant.

We expect to maintain a Tier 1 common capital ratio in
    excess of 8 percent as the regulatory rule changes are
    implemented without needing to raise new equity capital. We have
    made the implementation and mitigation of these regulatory
    changes a strategic priority. We also note there remains
    significant uncertainty on the final impacts as the
    U.S. has issued only final rules for Basel II and a
    Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for the Market Risk Rules at this
    time. Impacts may change as the U.S. finalizes rules for
    Basel III and the regulatory agencies interpret the final
    rules during the implementation process.

In addition to the capital proposals, in December 2010 the Basel
    Committee proposed two measures of liquidity risk. The Liquidity
    Coverage Ratio identifies the amount of unencumbered, high
    quality liquid assets a financial institution holds that can be
    used to offset the net cash outflows the institution would
    encounter under an acute30-daystress scenario. The Net Stable Funding Ratio measures the
    amount of longer-term, stable sources of funding employed by a
    financial institution relative to the liquidity profiles of the
    assets funded and the potential for contingent calls on funding
    liquidity arising from off-balance sheet commitments and
    obligations, over a one-year period. These two minimum liquidity
    standards are also considered part of Basel III. The Basel
    Committee expects the Liquidity Coverage Ratio to be implemented
    in January 2015 and the Net Stable Funding Ratio to be
    implemented in January 2018, following observation periods
    beginning in 2012. We continue to monitor the development and
    potential impact of these capital proposals.



Distributions

Our funds for cash distributions to our stockholders are derived
    from a variety of sources, including cash and temporary
    investments. The primary source of such funds, and funds used to
    pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, is dividends
    received from the Banks. Each of the Banks is subject to various
    regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of
    dividends, including requirements to maintain capital above
    regulatory minimums. The appropriate federal regulatory
    authority is authorized to determine, under certain
    circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank or
    bank holding company, that the payment of dividends would be an
    unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. For
    additional information regarding the restrictions on our ability
    to receive dividends or other distributions from the Banks, see
    Item 1A. Risk Factors.













6Bank
    of America 2010






In addition, the ability of Bank of America Corporation and the
    Banks to pay dividends may be affected by the various minimum
    capital requirements and the capital and non-capital standards
    established under FDICIA, as described above. The right of Bank
    of America Corporation, our stockholders and our creditors to
    participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of our
    subsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors
    of the respective subsidiaries.

For additional information regarding the requirements relating
    to the payment of dividends, including the minimum capital
    requirements, seeNote 15 – Shareholders’
    EquityandNote 18 – Regulatory
    Requirements and Restrictionsto the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.



Source of
    Strength

According to the Financial Reform Act and Federal Reserve Board
    policy, bank holding companies are expected to act as a source
    of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit
    resources to support each such subsidiary. This support may be
    required at times when a bank holding company may not be able to
    provide such support. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee
    provisions of the FDICIA, in the event of a loss suffered or
    anticipated by the FDIC – either as a result of
    default of a banking subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance
    provided to such a subsidiary in danger of default –
    the affiliate banks of such a subsidiary may be assessed for the
    FDIC’s loss, subject to certain exceptions.



Deposit
    Insurance

The FDIC is required to maintain at least a designated minimum
    ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the United States. The
    Financial Reform Act requires the FDIC to assess insured
    depository institutions to achieve a DIF ratio of at least
    1.35 percent by September 30, 2020. The FDIC has
    recently adopted new regulations that establish a long-term
    target DIF ratio of greater than two percent. As a result of the
    ongoing instability in the economy and the failure of other
    U.S. depository institutions, the DIF ratio is currently
    below the required targets and the FDIC has adopted a
    restoration plan that will result in



substantially higher deposit insurance assessments for all
    depository institutions over the coming years. Deposit insurance
    assessment rates are subject to change by the FDIC and will be
    impacted by the overall economy and the stability of the banking
    industry as a whole.



Transactions with
    Affiliates

The U.S. Banks are subject to restrictions under federal
    law that limit certain types of transactions between the Banks
    and their non-bank affiliates. In general, the U.S. Banks
    are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions
    of credit, purchases of assets and certain other transactions
    involving Bank of America and its non-bank affiliates.
    Transactions between the U.S. Banks and their non-bank
    affiliates are required to be on arm’s length terms.



Privacy and
    Information Security

We are subject to many U.S., state and international laws and
    regulations governing requirements for maintaining policies and
    procedures to protect the non-public confidential information of
    our customers. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires the Banks to
    periodically disclose Bank of America’s privacy policies
    and practices relating to sharing such information and enables
    retail customers to opt out of our ability to market to
    affiliates and non-affiliates under certain circumstances.



Additional
    Information

Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
    Principles

Note 5 – Securities

Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting
    Principles

Note 6 – Outstanding Loans
    and Leases

Note 11 – Deposits

Note 12 – Federal Funds Sold,
    Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and
    Short-term Borrowings

Note 13 –
    Long-term Debt

Note 3 –
    Trading Account Assets and Liabilities

Note 28 – Performance by Geographical Area













Bank of America








