Item 1.  Business

General

Bank of
America Corporation (together, with its consolidated subsidiaries, Bank of America, the Corporation, our company, we or us) is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company and a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Our
principal executive offices are located in the Bank of America Corporate Center, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255.

Bank
of America is one of the world’s largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses, large corporations and governments with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial
and risk management products and services. Through our banking subsidiaries (the Banks) and various nonbanking subsidiaries throughout the United States and in selected international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbanking
financial services and products through six business segments:Deposits, Global Card Services, Home Loans & Insurance, Global Banking, Global Markets,Global Wealth & Investment Management(GWIM), with the remaining
operations recorded inAll Other.

We are a global franchise, serving customers and clients around the world with
operations in all 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and more than 40 foreign countries. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank of America retail banking footprint includes approximately 80 percent of the U.S. population, and in the United
States, we serve approximately 59 million consumer and small business relationships with approximately 6,000 banking centers, more than 18,000 ATMs, nationwide call centers, and the leading online and mobile banking platforms. We have banking
centers in 12 of the 15 fastest growing states and have leadership positions in eight of those states. We offer industry-leading support to approximately four million small business owners. We have the No. 1 U.S. retail deposits market share
and are the No. 1 issuer of debit cards in the United States. We have the No. 2 market share in credit card products in the United States and we are the No. 1 credit card lender in Europe. We have approximately 8,900 mortgage loan
officers and are the No. 1 mortgage servicer and No. 2 mortgage originator in the United States.

In addition,
as of December 31, 2009, our commercial and corporate clients include 98 percent of the U.S. Fortune 1,000 and 82 percent of the Global Fortune 500 and we serve more than 11,000 issuer clients and 3,500 institutional investors. We are the
No. 1 treasury services provider in the United States and a leading provider globally. With our acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (Merrill Lynch) in 2009, we significantly enhanced our wealth management business and are a global
leader in corporate and investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes serving corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world. We have one of the largest wealth management businesses in the world with
approximately 15,000 financial advisors and more than $2.1 trillion in net client assets, and we are a leading wealth manager for high-net-worth and ultra high net-worth clients. In addition, we have an economic ownership of approximately 34 percent
in BlackRock, Inc., a publicly traded investment management company.

Additional information relating to our businesses
and our subsidiaries is included in the information set forth in pages 27 through 42 of Item 7,

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) andNote 23 – Business SegmentInformationto the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (Consolidated Financial Statements).

Bank of America’s website is www.bankofamerica.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website at http://investor.bankofamerica.com under the heading SEC Filings as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, we make available on http://investor.bankofamerica.com under the heading Corporate Governance: (i) our Code of Ethics (including our insider trading policy);
(ii) our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) the charter of each committee of our Board of Directors (the Board) (by clicking on the committee names under the Committee Composition link), and we also intend to disclose any
amendments to our Code of Ethics, or waivers of our Code of Ethics on behalf of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer, on our website. All of these corporate governance materials are also available free of
charge in print to stockholders who request them in writing to: Bank of America Corporation, Attention: Shareholder Relations Department, 101 South Tryon Street, NC1-002-29-01, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255.

Competition

We operate
in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit card
issuers, mutual fund companies and e-commerce and other internet-based companies in addition to those competitors discussed more specifically below. We compete with some of these competitors globally and with others on a regional or product basis.
Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits and customer convenience. Our ability
to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs.

More specifically, our consumer banking business competes with banks, thrifts, credit unions, finance companies and other nonbank
organizations offering financial services. Our commercial and large corporate lending businesses compete with local, regional and international banks and nonbank financial organizations. In the investment banking, wealth management, investment
advisory and brokerage businesses, our nonbanking subsidiaries compete with U.S. and international commercial banking and investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies, mutual funds, hedge funds, private
equity funds, trust banks, multi-family offices, advice boutiques and other organizations offering similar services and other investment alternatives available to investors. Our mortgage banking business competes with





Bank of America 20091






banks, thrifts, mortgage brokers and other nonbank organizations offering mortgage banking and mortgage related services. Our card business competes in the United States and internationally with
banks, consumer finance companies and retail stores with private label credit and debit cards.

We also compete actively
for funds. A primary source of funds for the Banks is deposits, and competition for deposits includes other deposit-taking organizations, such as banks, thrifts and credit unions, as well as money market mutual funds. Investment banks and other
entities that became bank holding companies and financial holding companies as a result of the recent financial crisis are also competitors for deposits. In addition, we compete for funding in the domestic and international short-term and long-term
debt securities capital markets.

Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more
concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. This trend continued in 2008 and 2009 as the financial crisis caused additional mergers and
asset acquisitions among industry participants. This trend toward consolidation has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of some of our competitors. This trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities markets.
These developments could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources or having stronger local presences and longer operating histories outside the United States.

Our ability to expand certain of our banking operations in additional U.S. states remains subject to various federal and state laws.
See “Government Supervision and Regulation – General” below for a more detailed discussion of interstate banking and branching legislation and certain state legislation.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, there were approximately
284,000 full-time equivalent employees with Bank of America. Of these employees, 75,800 were employed withinDeposits, 24,900 were employed withinGlobal Card Services, 52,800 were employed withinHome Loans & Insurance,
22,900 were employed withinGlobal Banking, 17,600 were employed withinGlobalMarketsand 40,400 were employed withinGWIM. The remainder were employed elsewhere within our company including various staff and support
functions.

None of our domestic employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Management considers our
employee relations to be good.

Acquisition and Disposition Activity

As part of our operations, we regularly evaluate the potential acquisition of, and hold discussions with, various financial institutions and other
businesses of a type eligible for financial holding company ownership or control. In addition, we regularly analyze the values of, and submit bids for, the acquisition of customer-based funds and other liabilities and assets of such financial
institutions and other businesses. We also regularly consider the potential disposition of certain of our assets, branches, subsidiaries or lines of businesses. As a general rule, we publicly announce any material acquisitions or dispositions when a
definitive agreement has been reached.

On January 1, 2009, we completed the acquisition of Merrill Lynch.
Additional information on our acquisitions and mergers is included inNote 2 – Merger and Restructuring Activityto the Consolidated Financial Statements which is incorporated herein by reference.



Government Supervision and Regulation

The following discussion describes, among other things, elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies, financial
holding companies and banks and specific information about Bank of America. U.S. federal regulation of banks, bank holding companies and financial holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance
Fund (DIF) rather than for the protection of stockholders and creditors. For additional information about recent regulatory programs, initiatives and legislation that impact us, see “Regulatory Initiatives” in the MD&A.

General

As a registered bank holding company and financial holding company, Bank of America Corporation is subject to the supervision
of, and regular inspection by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board). The Banks are organized as national banking associations, which are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (Comptroller or OCC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the Federal Reserve Board and other federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition to banking laws, regulations and regulatory agencies, we are
subject to various other laws and regulations and supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect our operations and management and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. For example,
our U.S. broker dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by and supervision of the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA); our commodities businesses in the United States are subject to
regulation by and supervision of the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC); and our insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies.

Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities
exchanges, central banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which the businesses operate. Our financial services operations in the United Kingdom are subject to regulation by and supervision of the Financial Services Authority
(FSA).

A U.S. financial holding company, and the companies under its control, are permitted to engage in activities
considered “financial in nature” as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Federal Reserve Board interpretations (including, without limitation, insurance and securities activities), and therefore may engage in a broader range of
activities than permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries. Unless otherwise limited by the Federal Reserve Board, a financial holding company may engage directly or indirectly in activities considered financial in nature, either de
novo or by acquisition, provided the financial holding company gives the Federal Reserve Board after-the-fact notice of the new activities. In addition, if the Federal Reserve Board finds that any of the Banks is not well capitalized or well
managed, we would be required to enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve Board to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements and which may contain additional limitations or conditions relating to our activities. The
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also permits national banks, such as the Banks, to engage in activities considered financial in nature through a financial subsidiary, subject to certain conditions and limitations and with the approval of the OCC.





2Bank of America 2009






Changes in Regulations

Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the banking and financial services industries are frequently introduced in Congress, in the state legislatures and before the various bank regulatory agencies
as well as by lawmakers and regulators in jurisdictions outside the United States where we operate. For example, in 2009, the U.S. Department of the Treasury (U.S. Treasury), the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board developed programs and facilities
designed to support the banking and financial services industries during the financial crisis. Congress and the U.S. government have continued to evaluate and develop legislation, programs and initiatives designed to, among other things, stabilize
the financial and housing markets, stimulate the economy, including the U.S. government’s foreclosure prevention program, and prevent future financial crises by further regulating the financial services industry. As a result of the financial
crisis and challenging economic environment, we expect additional changes to be proposed and continued legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry. The final form of any proposed programs or initiatives or related
legislation, the likelihood and timing of any other future proposals or legislation, and the impact they might have on us cannot be determined at this time. For additional information regarding proposed regulatory and legislative initiatives, see
“Executive Summary – Regulatory Overview” in the MD&A.

Capital and Operational Requirements

The Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC have issued substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to U.S. banking organizations. In addition, these regulatory agencies may from time to time require that
a banking organization maintain capital above the minimum levels, whether because of its financial condition or actual or anticipated growth. The Federal Reserve Board risk-based guidelines define a three-tier capital framework. Tier 1 capital
includes common shareholders’ equity, trust preferred securities, noncontrolling interests, qualifying preferred stock and any Common Equivalent Securities (CES), less goodwill and other adjustments. Tier 2 capital consists of preferred stock
not qualifying as Tier 1 capital, mandatorily convertible debt, limited amounts of subordinated debt, other qualifying term debt, the allowance for credit losses up to 1.25 percent of risk-weighted assets and other adjustments. Tier 3 capital
includes subordinated debt that is

The leverage ratio is determined by dividing Tier 1 capital by
adjusted quarterly average total assets, after certain adjustments. Well-capitalized bank holding companies must have a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of three percent and not be subject to a Federal Reserve Board directive to maintain higher capital
levels. Our leverage ratio at December 31, 2009 was 6.91 percent, which exceeded our leverage ratio requirement.

The various regulatory agencies have adopted substantially similar regulations that define the five capital categories identified by
FDICIA, using the total risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital and leverage capital ratios as the relevant capital measures. Such regulations establish various degrees of corrective action to be taken when an institution is considered
undercapitalized. Under the regulations, a “well capitalized” institution must have a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least six percent, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least ten percent and a leverage





Bank of America 20093






ratio of at least five percent and not be subject to a capital directive order. Under these guidelines, each of the Banks was considered well capitalized as of December 31, 2009.

Regulators also must take into consideration: (a) concentrations of credit risk; (b) interest rate risk; and
(c) risks from non-traditional activities, as well as an institution’s ability to manage those risks, when determining the adequacy of an institution’s capital. This evaluation is made as a part of the institution’s regular
safety and soundness examination. In addition, Bank of America Corporation, and any Bank with significant trading activity, must incorporate a measure for market risk in their regulatory capital calculations.

In addition, in June 2004, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published Basel II, which is designed to address credit risk,
market risk and operational risk in the international banking markets. In December 2007, U.S. banking regulators published Basel II final rules which require us and certain of our U.S. Banks to implement Basel II. In December 2009, the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision released consultative documents on both capital and liquidity. Additionally, U.S. banking regulators continue to refine market risk requirements, which also have a regulatory capital impact. Revised requirements have
not been issued but are expected in 2010. For additional information regarding these regulatory initiatives and proposals, see “Executive Summary – Regulatory Overview” in the MD&A andNote 16 – Regulatory Requirementsand Restrictionsto the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Distributions

Our funds for cash distributions to
our stockholders are derived from a variety of sources, including cash and temporary investments. The primary source of such funds, and funds used to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, is dividends received from the Banks. Each of the
Banks is subject to various regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain capital above regulatory minimums. The appropriate federal regulatory authority is authorized to determine
under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank or bank holding company that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof.

In addition, the ability of Bank of America Corporation and the Banks to pay dividends may be affected by the various minimum capital
requirements and the capital and non-capital standards established under FDICIA, as described above. The right of Bank of America Corporation, our stockholders and our creditors to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of our
subsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of the respective subsidiaries.

For additional
information regarding the requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including the minimum capital requirements, seeNote 15 – Shareholders’ Equity and Earnings Per Common ShareandNote 16 – Regulatory
Requirements and Restrictionsto the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Source of Strength

According to Federal Reserve
Board policy, bank holding companies are expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. This support may be required at times when a bank holding company may not be
able to provide such support. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC–either as a result of default of a banking subsidiary or related to
FDIC assistance provided to a subsidiary in danger of default–the other Banks may be assessed for the FDIC’s loss, subject to certain exceptions.



Deposit Insurance

Deposits placed at the U.S. Banks are insured by the FDIC subject
to limits and conditions of applicable law and the FDIC’s regulations. In 2009, FDIC insurance coverage limits were temporarily increased from $100,000 to $250,000 per customer until December 31, 2013. The FDIC administers the DIF, and all
insured depository institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC that fund the DIF. Assessments are required if the ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the United States falls below 1.15%. As a result of the ongoing instability in the
economy and the failure of other U.S. depository institutions, the DIF ratio currently is below the required level and the FDIC has adopted a restoration plan that will result in substantially higher deposit insurance assessments for all depository
institutions over the coming years. On December 30, 2009, the FDIC required all depository institutions to prepay deposit insurance assessments for the next three years in order to provide liquidity to the DIF. Deposit insurance assessment
rates are subject to change by the FDIC and will be impacted by the overall economy and the stability of the banking industry as a whole.

Transactions with Affiliates

The U.S Banks are subject to restrictions under federal law that limit certain types of transactions between the Banks and their non-bank affiliates. In general, the U.S Banks are subject to
quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets and certain other transactions involving Bank of America and its non-bank affiliates. Transactions between the U.S. Banks and their nonbank affiliates are required to
be on arms length terms.

Privacy and Information Security

We are subject to many U.S., state and international laws and regulations governing
requirements for maintaining policies and procedures to protect the non-public confidential information of our customers. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires the Banks to periodically disclose Bank of America’s privacy policies and practices
relating to sharing such information and enables retail customers to opt out of our ability to market to affiliates and non-affiliates under certain circumstances.

Additional Information

Note 1
– Summary of Significant Accounting Principles

Note 5 – Securities

Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Principles

Note 6 – Outstanding Loans and Leases

Note 11 – Deposits

Note 12 – Short-term Borrowings

Note 13 – Long-term Debt





4Bank of America 2009






Analysis – Federal Funds Sold and Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Agreements to Resell”, “Balance Sheet Analysis – Federal Funds Purchased and Securities Loaned or Sold
Under Agreements to Repurchase” and “Market Risk Management – Trading Risk Management” in the MD&A andNote 3 – Trading Account Assets andLiabilitiesto the Consolidated Financial Statements); Market Risk
Management (under the caption “Market Risk Management” in the MD&A); Liquidity Risk Management (under the caption “Liquidity Risk and Capital Management” in the MD&A); Compliance Risk Management (under the Caption
“Compliance Risk Management” in the MD&A) and Operational Risk Management (under the caption “Operational Risk Management” in the MD&A); and Performance by Geographic Area (underNote 25 – Performance by
Geographical Areato the Consolidated Financial Statements).

