
10-K405
0001.txt
EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD. FORM 10-K


================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                 --------------

                                    FORM 10-K

                                 --------------

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000       Commission file number 1-15731

                             EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            BERMUDA                                           NOT APPLICABLE
 (State or other jurisdiction                                (I.R.S. Employer
of incorporation or organization)                           Identification No.)

                  C/O ABG FINANCIAL & MANAGEMENT SERVICES, INC.
                                  PARKER HOUSE
                        WILDEY BUSINESS PARK, WILDEY ROAD
                              ST. MICHAEL, BARBADOS
                                 (246) 228-7398
               (Address, including zip code, and telephone number,
        including area code, of registrant's principal executive office)

                                 --------------

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                                         Name of Each Exchange
          Title of Each Class                             on Which Registered
          -------------------                            ---------------------
Common Shares, $.01 par value per share                 New York Stock Exchange

                                 --------------

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

                                 --------------

         Indicate  by check  mark  whether  the  registrant:  (1) has  filed all
reports  required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter  period that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                                  Yes  X      No
                                      ---        ---

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,
to the best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

         The  aggregate  market value on March 14, 2001 of the voting stock held
by non-affiliates of the registrant was $2,864.9 million.

         At March 14, 2001, the number of shares outstanding of the registrant's
common shares was 46,094,778.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

         Certain  information  required by Items 10, 11, 12, and 13 of Form 10-K
is  incorporated by reference into Part III hereof from the  registrant's  proxy
statement for the 2001 Annual  General  Meeting of  Shareholders,  which will be
filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission  within 120 days of the close
of the registrant's fiscal year ended December 31, 2000.

================================================================================



  ITEM                                                                      PAGE
  ----                                                                      ----

PART I

     1.   Business                                                             1
     2.   Properties                                                          31
     3.   Legal Proceedings                                                   31
     4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders                 31

PART II

     5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
           Shareholder Matters                                                31
     6.   Selected Financial Data                                             33
     7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
           and Results of Operations                                          35
     7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk          53
     8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                         53
     9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
           and Financial Disclosure                                           54

PART III

     10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant                  54
     11.  Executive Compensation                                              54
     12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
           Management                                                         54
     13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                      54

PART IV

     14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
           Form 8-K                                                           54



PART I

UNLESS  OTHERWISE  INDICATED,  ALL  FINANCIAL  DATA IN THIS  DOCUMENT  HAVE BEEN
PREPARED USING GENERALLY ACCEPTED  ACCOUNTING  PRINCIPLES ("GAAP") IN THE UNITED
STATES  OF  AMERICA.  AS USED IN  THIS  DOCUMENT,  "EVEREST  RE"  MEANS  EVEREST
REINSURANCE   COMPANY  AND  ITS  SUBSIDIARIES   (UNLESS  THE  CONTEXT  OTHERWISE
REQUIRES);  "HOLDINGS" MEANS EVEREST REINSURANCE  HOLDINGS,  INC.; "GROUP" MEANS
EVEREST RE GROUP,  LTD.  (FORMERLY  EVEREST  REINSURANCE  GROUP,  LTD.); AND THE
"COMPANY"  MEANS GROUP AND ITS  SUBSIDIARIES,  EXCEPT WHEN  REFERRING TO PERIODS
PRIOR TO FEBRUARY 24, 2000, WHEN IT MEANS HOLDINGS AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES.

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

THE COMPANY
Group, a Bermuda company,  with its principal executive office in Barbados,  was
established  in 1999 as a wholly-owned  subsidiary of Holdings.  On February 24,
2000, a corporate  restructuring  was  completed and Group became the new parent
holding company of Holdings, which remains the holding company for the Company's
non-Bermuda  based  operations.  Holders of shares of common  stock of  Holdings
automatically became holders of the same number of common shares of Group. Prior
to the restructuring,  Group had no significant assets or capitalization and had
not engaged in any business or prior  activities  other than in connection  with
the  restructuring.  The Company had gross premiums  written in 2000 of $1,385.6
million and shareholders' equity at December 31, 2000 of $1,583.4 million.

In  connection  with  the  restructuring,   Group  established  a  Bermuda-based
reinsurance  subsidiary,  Everest  Reinsurance  (Bermuda),  Ltd. ("Bermuda Re"),
which  commenced  business in the second  half of 2000.  Group also formed a new
Delaware  subsidiary to perform  administrative  and  back-office  functions for
Group and its U.S.-based and non-U.S. based subsidiaries.

On March 14, 2000, Holdings completed public offerings of $200 million principal
amount of 8.75%  senior  notes due March  15,  2010 and $250  million  principal
amount of 8.50% senior notes due March 15, 2005.  During 2000,  the net proceeds
of these offerings and additional  funds were  distributed by Holdings to Group.
Approximately $250 million of the distributions were used by Group to capitalize
Bermuda Re.

Holdings, a Delaware corporation, was established in 1993 to serve as the parent
holding company of Everest Re (formed in 1973), a Delaware property and casualty
reinsurer.  Until  October  6,  1995,  Holdings  was  an  indirect  wholly-owned
subsidiary of The Prudential Insurance Company of America ("The Prudential"). On
October 6, 1995, The Prudential sold its entire interest in the shares of common
stock of Holdings in an initial public offering (the "IPO").

The Company's principal business,  conducted through its operating subsidiaries,
is the  underwriting of reinsurance and insurance in the United States,  Bermuda
and  international  markets.  The Company  underwrites  reinsurance both through
brokers and directly with ceding companies,  giving it the flexibility to pursue
business  regardless of the ceding company's  preferred  reinsurance  purchasing
method. The Company  underwrites  insurance  principally  through general agency
relationships.  Everest Re specializes in property and casualty  reinsurance and


insurance.  Bermuda Re principally writes property and casualty  reinsurance and
also offers  reinsurance  and insurance with respect to life and annuity classes
of business.  Group's operating  subsidiaries,  excluding Mt. McKinley Insurance
Company,  are each rated A+ ("Superior") by A.M. Best Company ("A.M.  Best"), an
independent   insurance  industry  rating   organization  that  rates  insurance
companies on factors of concern to policyholders.

Following is a summary of the Company's operating subsidiaries:

   o     Everest Re, a Delaware  insurance  company and a direct  subsidiary  of
         Holdings,  is a licensed property and casualty insurer and/or reinsurer
         in all states  (except  Nevada and Wyoming),  the District of Columbia,
         Puerto  Rico and  Canada,  and is  authorized  to  conduct  reinsurance
         business in the United  Kingdom and  Singapore.  Everest Re underwrites
         property and casualty reinsurance on a treaty and facultative basis for
         insurance   and   reinsurance   companies  in  the  United  States  and
         international markets. Everest Re had statutory surplus at December 31,
         2000 of $1,272.7 million.

   o     Bermuda  Re, a Bermuda  insurance  company and a direct  subsidiary  of
         Group,  is  registered  in Bermuda as a Class 4 insurer  and  long-term
         insurer and is authorized to write  property and casualty  business and
         life and annuity business.  Bermuda Re commenced business in the second
         half of 2000. In December  2000,  Bermuda Re acquired all of the issued
         and outstanding  shares of AFC Re Ltd. ("AFC Re"), a Bermuda  long-term
         insurance company.  AFC Re wrote annuity  reinsurance  business,  which
         business  has been  assumed by Bermuda  Re.  Bermuda Re had  capital at
         December 31, 2000 of $287.0 million.

   o     Everest National  Insurance  Company ("Everest  National"),  an Arizona
         insurance company and a direct subsidiary of Everest Re, is licensed in
         42 states and the  District  of  Columbia  and is  authorized  to write
         property and casualty insurance in the states in which it is  licensed.
         This is often called writing insurance on an admitted basis.

   o     Everest  Insurance  Company of Canada  ("Everest  Canada"),  a Canadian
         insurance company and a direct subsidiary of Everest Re, is licensed in
         all Canadian  provinces and  territories  and is federally  licensed to
         write property and casualty insurance under the Insurance Companies Act
         of Canada.

   o     Everest Indemnity Insurance Company ("Everest  Indemnity"),  a Delaware
         insurance company and a direct subsidiary of Everest Re, engages in the
         excess and  surplus  lines  insurance  business  in the United  States.
         Excess and surplus lines insurance is specialty  property and liability
         coverage  that  an  insurer  not  licensed  to  write  insurance  in  a
         particular  state is permitted  to provide when the specific  specialty
         coverage is unavailable  from admitted  insurers.  This is often called
         writing  insurance  on  a  non-admitted  basis.  Everest  Indemnity  is
         licensed  in  Delaware   and  is  eligible  to  write   business  on  a
         non-admitted  basis in 41 states,  the  District of Columbia and Puerto
         Rico.

   o     Mt. McKinley  Managers,  L.L.C.  ("Managers"),  a  New  Jersey  limited
         liability company and a direct subsidiary of Holdings,  is  licensed in
         New Jersey  as an  insurance  producer.  An  insurance  producer is any
         intermediary, such as an agent or broker,  which  acts  as  the conduit
         between  an  insurance  company  and  an  insured.  Managers,  which is
         licensed to act in New Jersey as  an  insurance  producer in connection
         with policies written on both an admitted and a surplus lines basis, is
         the underwriting manager for Everest  Indemnity.  As a result of a 1998


         acquisition  of  the assets of insurance  agency  operations in Alabama
         and Georgia, the continuing insurance agency operations are now carried
         on  by  subsidiaries  of  Managers.  These  subsidiaries  are  WorkCare
         Southeast, Inc., an Alabama insurance  agency,  and WorkCare  Southeast
         of Georgia,  Inc., a Georgia insurance agency.

   o     Mt.  McKinley  Insurance  Company (f/k/a  Gibraltar  Casualty  Company,
         "Gibraltar") ("Mt. McKinley"),  a  Delaware  insurance  company  and  a
         direct  subsidiary of  Holdings,  was acquired by Holdings in September
         2000 from The  Prudential.  Mt.  McKinley  was formed by Everest  Re in
         1978 to  engage  in the excess and  surplus  lines  insurance  business
         in the United States.  In 1985,  Mt.  McKinley  ceased  writing new and
         renewal insurance  and now its ongoing  operations  relate to servicing
         claims arising  from its  previously  written  business.  Mt.  McKinley
         was a subsidiary  of Everest Re until 1991 when  Everest Re distributed
         the  stock  of  Mt.  McKinley  to  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  The
         Prudential.

   o     Southeastern  Security Insurance Company ("SSIC"),  a Georgia insurance
         company and a direct  subsidiary of Everest Re, was acquired in January
         2000 and writes property and casualty insurance on an admitted basis in
         Georgia.

   o     Everest Re Holdings,  Ltd.  ("Everest  Ltd."), a Bermuda company and  a
         direct subsidiary of Everest Re, was formed in 1998 and owns Everest Re
         Ltd.,  a  United  Kingdom  company  that  is  in  the  process of being
         dissolved  because its reinsurance  operations have been converted into
         branch  operations  of  Everest  Re.  Everest  Ltd.  also  holds  $84.1
         million  of  investments,  the  management  of  which  constitutes  its
         principal operations.

REINSURANCE INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Reinsurance  is an  arrangement  in which an insurance  company,  the reinsurer,
agrees to indemnify another insurance company,  the ceding company,  against all
or a portion of the insurance risks underwritten by the ceding company under one
or more  insurance  contracts.  Reinsurance  can provide a ceding  company  with
several  benefits,  including a reduction  in net  liability  on  individual  or
classes  of risks,  catastrophe  protection  from large or  multiple  losses and
assistance in maintaining acceptable financial ratios. Reinsurance also provides
a ceding  company with  additional  underwriting  capacity by  permitting  it to
accept  larger risks and write more  business  than would be possible  without a
concomitant  increase in capital and  surplus.  Reinsurance,  however,  does not
discharge the ceding company from its liability to policyholders.

There are two basic types of reinsurance  arrangements:  treaty and  facultative
reinsurance. In treaty reinsurance,  the ceding company is obligated to cede and
the  reinsurer is obligated to assume a specified  portion of a type or category
of risks insured by the ceding  company.  Treaty  reinsurers  do not  separately
evaluate  each  of the  individual  risks  assumed  under  their  treaties  and,
consequently, after a review of the ceding company's underwriting practices, are
largely dependent on the original risk underwriting decisions made by the ceding
company. In facultative reinsurance,  the ceding company cedes and the reinsurer
assumes all or part of the risk under a single insurance  contract.  Facultative
reinsurance  is  negotiated  separately  for  each  insurance  contract  that is
reinsured. Facultative reinsurance normally is purchased by ceding companies for
individual  risks not  covered by their  reinsurance  treaties,  for  amounts in
excess of the dollar limits of their reinsurance treaties and for unusual risks.


Both  treaty  and  facultative  reinsurance  can be written on either a pro rata
basis or an excess of loss basis. Under pro rata reinsurance, the ceding company
and the  reinsurer  share the  premiums as well as the losses and expenses in an
agreed proportion.  Under excess of loss reinsurance,  the reinsurer indemnifies
the ceding company against all or a specified  portion of losses and expenses in
excess of a specified dollar amount,  known as the ceding company's retention or
reinsurer's  attachment  point,  generally  subject to a negotiated  reinsurance
contract limit.

Premiums  paid  by  the  ceding  company  to a  reinsurer  for  excess  of  loss
reinsurance  are not  directly  proportional  to the  premiums  that the  ceding
company receives because the reinsurer does not assume a proportionate  risk. In
pro rata reinsurance,  the reinsurer  generally pays the ceding company a ceding
commission.  The ceding  commission  generally is based on the ceding  company's
cost of acquiring the business  being  reinsured  (commissions,  premium  taxes,
assessments  and  miscellaneous  administrative  expense).  There is  usually no
ceding commission on excess of loss reinsurance.

Reinsurers   may  purchase   reinsurance  to  cover  their  own  risk  exposure.
Reinsurance  of a  reinsurer's  business is called a  retrocession.  Reinsurance
companies cede risks under retrocessional agreements to other reinsurers,  known
as  retrocessionaires,  for  reasons  similar to those that  cause  insurers  to
purchase reinsurance: to reduce net liability on individual or classes of risks,
protect  against  catastrophic  losses,  stabilize  financial  ratios and obtain
additional underwriting capacity.

Reinsurance can be written through professional  reinsurance brokers or directly
with ceding  companies.  From a ceding  company's  perspective,  both the broker
market  and the  direct  market  have  advantages  and  disadvantages.  A ceding
company's decision to select one market over the other will be influenced by its
perception of such  advantages  and  disadvantages  relative to the  reinsurance
coverage being placed.

BUSINESS STRATEGY
The  Company's  underwriting  strategies  seek to  capitalize  on its  financial
capacity,  its employee expertise and its flexibility to offer multiple products
through  multiple  distribution   channels.  The  Company's  strategies  include
effective  management  of the property and casualty  underwriting  cycle,  which
refers to the  tendency of  insurance  premiums,  profits and the demand for and
availability  of coverage to rise and fall over time.  The Company also seeks to
manage its catastrophe  exposures and  retrocessional  costs, which are incurred
when reinsurers purchase reinsurance. Efforts to control expenses and to operate
in a cost-efficient manner are also a continuing focus for the Company.

The  Company's  products  include:  (1) the full range of property  and casualty
coverages,  including marine,  aviation,  surety, errors and omissions liability
("E&O"), directors' and officers' liability ("D&O"), medical malpractice,  other
specialty lines, accident and health ("A&H"), workers compensation, non-standard
auto and loss portfolios;  and (2) reinsurance of life and annuity business. The
Company's  distribution  channels include both the direct and broker reinsurance
markets, U.S., Bermuda and international markets,  reinsurance,  both treaty and
facultative, and insurance, both admitted and non-admitted.

The Company's underwriting strategy emphasizes underwriting profitability rather
than  premium  volume,  writing  specialized  property  and  casualty  risks and
integration  of  underwriting  expertise  across  all  underwriting  units.  Key


elements  of this  strategy  are prudent  risk  selection,  appropriate  pricing
through  strict  underwriting   discipline  and  continuous  adjustment  of  the
Company's  business mix to respond to changing  market  conditions.  The Company
focuses on reinsuring  companies that effectively  manage the underwriting cycle
through proper analysis and pricing of underlying  risks and whose  underwriting
guidelines and performance are compatible with its objectives.

The  Company's   underwriting   strategy   also   emphasizes   flexibility   and
responsiveness  to  changing  market  conditions,  such as  increased  demand or
favorable  pricing  trends.  The Company  believes that its existing  strengths,
including its broad  underwriting  expertise,  U.S.,  Bermuda and  international
presence and substantial capital,  facilitate adjustments to its mix of business
geographically,  by line of  business  and by type of  coverage,  allowing it to
capitalize on those market opportunities that provide the greatest potential for
underwriting  profitability.  The  Company's  insurance  infrastructure  further
facilitates  this  strategy by allowing  the  Company to develop  business  that
requires the Company to issue  insurance  policies.  The Company also  carefully
monitors its mix of business to avoid inappropriate concentrations of geographic
or other risk.

The  Company's  underwriting  guidelines  seek  to  limit  the  accumulation  of
catastrophe  risks and to maintain a  cost-effective  retrocession  program.  In
implementing   its  underwriting   guidelines,   the  Company  seeks  to  select
opportunities  with  acceptable   risk/return  profiles  while  maintaining  the
Company's probable maximum loss at appropriate levels.

SEGMENT INFORMATION
During the quarter ended December 31, 2000, the Company's  management  realigned
its operating  segments to better reflect the way that  management  monitors and
evaluates  the  Company's  financial  performance.  The Company has restated all
information  for  prior  years to  conform  to the new  segment  structure.  The
Company, through its subsidiaries,  operates in five segments: U.S. Reinsurance,
U.S.  Insurance,  Specialty  Underwriting,  International and Bermuda.  The U.S.
Reinsurance  operation writes property and casualty reinsurance on both a treaty
and  facultative  basis  through  reinsurance  brokers as well as directly  with
ceding companies within the United States. The U.S.  Insurance  operation writes
property and casualty  insurance  primarily through general agent  relationships
and surplus lines brokers within the United States.  The Specialty  Underwriting
operation  writes A&H,  marine,  aviation and surety  business within the United
States and worldwide  through  brokers and directly with ceding  companies.  The
International  operation  writes property and casualty  reinsurance  through the
Company's  branches in Belgium,  London,  Canada and  Singapore,  in addition to
foreign "home-office" business. The Bermuda operation writes property, casualty,
life and annuity business through brokers and directly with ceding companies.

These  segments  are  managed in a  carefully  coordinated  fashion  with strong
elements of central control, including with respect to capital,  investments and
support operations. As a result, management monitors and evaluates the financial
performance  of  these   operating   segments   principally   based  upon  their
underwriting results.

MARKETING
The  Company  writes  its  business  on a  worldwide  basis  for many  different
customers and for many lines of business,  providing a broad array of coverages.
The Company is not materially  dependent on any single customer,  small group of
customers, line of business or geographical area. For the 2000 calendar year, no


single  customer  (ceding  company or insured)  generated  more than 5.5% of the
Company's gross premiums written.  The Company does not believe that a reduction
of business from any one customer  would have a material  adverse  effect on its
future  financial  condition  or  results  of  operations  due to the  Company's
competitive  position in the market  place and the  continuing  availability  of
other sources of business.

Approximately  58.3%,  23.4%  and 18.3% of the  Company's  2000  gross  premiums
written were written in the broker reinsurance, direct reinsurance and insurance
markets,  respectively.  The Company's ability to write reinsurance both through
brokers and directly with ceding  companies  gives it the  flexibility to pursue
business  regardless of the ceding company's  preferred  reinsurance  purchasing
method.

The  reinsurance  broker  market  consists of several  substantial  national and
international  brokers and a number of smaller specialized  brokers.  Brokers do
not  have  the  authority  to bind  the  Company  with  respect  to  reinsurance
agreements,  nor does the Company commit in advance to accept any portion of the
business  that  brokers  submit  to it.  Reinsurance  business  from any  ceding
company,  whether  new or  renewal,  is subject to  acceptance  by the  Company.
Brokerage  fees are  generally  paid by  reinsurers.  The  Company's ten largest
brokers  accounted  for an aggregate of  approximately  46.4% of gross  premiums
written  in  2000,  with  each  of  the  two  largest  brokers   accounting  for
approximately 12.8% of gross premiums written. The Company does not believe that
a reduction  of business  assumed  from any one broker  would have a  materially
adverse  effect on the  Company  due to its  competitive  position in the market
place,  relationships  with ceding companies and the continuing  availability of
other sources of business.

The direct  market  remains an  important  distribution  system for  reinsurance
business  written by the Company.  Direct  placement of reinsurance  enables the
Company to access  clients who prefer to place their  reinsurance  directly with
their reinsurers based upon the reinsurer's in-depth understanding of the ceding
company's needs. The Company's insurance business is written principally through
general agent relationships and surplus lines brokers.

The Company  evaluates each business  relationship,  including the  underwriting
expertise  and  experience  of  each  distribution  channel  selected,  performs
analyses to evaluate financial security and monitors performance.

UNDERWRITING OPERATIONS
The following  table presents the  distribution  of the Company's gross premiums
written  by  its  U.S.  Reinsurance,  U.S.  Insurance,  Specialty  Underwriting,
International  and Bermuda  operations  for the years ended  December  31, 2000,
1999,  1998,  1997 and 1996,  classified  according  to whether  the  premium is
derived  from  property or casualty  business  and,  for  reinsurance  business,
whether it represents pro rata or excess of loss business:


                       GROSS PREMIUMS WRITTEN BY OPERATION


- -------------
(1)  For purposes  of  the  presentation  above,  pro rata  includes reinsurance
     attaching to the first dollar of  loss  incurred by  the ceding company and
     insurance.
(2)  Certain totals and subtotals may not reconcile due to rounding.
(3)  Includes immaterial amounts of life and annuity premium.


U.S.  REINSURANCE  OPERATION.  The Company's U.S.  Reinsurance  operation writes
property  and  casualty  reinsurance,  both  treaty  and  facultative,   through
reinsurance  brokers as well as directly with ceding companies within the United
States.  The Company  targets  certain  brokers and,  through the broker market,
specialty  companies and small to medium sized  standard lines  companies.  On a
direct  basis,  the  Company  targets   companies  which  place  their  business
predominantly  in the direct  market,  including  small to medium sized regional
ceding  companies,  and seeks to  develop  long-term  relationships  with  these
companies.  In  addition,  the U.S.  Reinsurance  operation  writes  portions of
reinsurance programs for larger, national insurance companies.

In 2000,  $110.3 million of gross  premiums  written were  attributable  to U.S.
property  business,  of which  45.8% was  written on an excess of loss basis and
54.2% was  written on a pro rata  basis.  The  Company's  property  underwriters
utilize  sophisticated   underwriting  methods  which  management  believes  are
necessary to analyze and price property  business,  particularly that segment of
the property market which has catastrophe exposure.

U.S. casualty business accounted for $275.6 million of gross premiums written in
2000,  of which  52.1% was  written  on an  excess  of loss  basis and 47.9% was
written on a pro rata basis. The treaty casualty portfolio consists  principally
of professional  liability,  D&O liability,  workers'  compensation,  excess and
surplus  lines,  and  other  liability  coverages.  As a result  of the  complex
technical  nature of most of these risks,  the Company's  casualty  underwriters
tend to  specialize  by line of business  and work  closely  with the  Company's
pricing actuaries.

The  facultative  unit conducts  business both through brokers and directly with
ceding  companies,   and  consists  of  three  underwriting  units  representing
property,  casualty and specialty lines of business.  Business is written from a
facultative headquarters office in New York and satellite offices in Chicago and
San Francisco.  In 2000, $24.7 million, $35.9 million and $15.0 million of gross
premiums  written  were  attributable  to the  property,  general  casualty  and
specialty lines of business, respectively.

In 2000,  84.3% and 15.7% of the U.S.  Reinsurance  operation's  gross  premiums
written were written in the broker and direct reinsurance markets, respectively.

U.S. INSURANCE OPERATION.  In 2000, the Company's U.S. Insurance operation wrote
$250.5 million of gross premiums  written,  of which 96.3% was casualty and 3.7%
was  property.  Of the casualty  business,  the  predominant  class was workers'
compensation  insurance.  Everest  National  wrote $189.0 million and Everest Re
wrote $35.8 million,  with both principally  targeting  commercial  property and
casualty  business  written  through general agency  relationships  with program
administrators.  Everest  Indemnity wrote $12.3 million,  principally  targeting
excess and surplus  lines  insurance  business  written  through  surplus  lines
brokers.  SSIC wrote $13.4  million,  principally  targeting  non-standard  auto
business written through retail agency relationships.  With respect to insurance
written  through   general  agents  and  surplus  lines  brokers,   the  Company
supplements   the  initial   underwriting   process  with  periodic  claims  and
underwriting reviews.

SPECIALTY UNDERWRITING OPERATION. The Company's Specialty Underwriting operation
writes A&H,  marine,  aviation and surety  reinsurance.  The A&H unit  primarily
focuses on health  reinsurance  of  traditional  indemnity  plans,  self-insured
health plans and specialty  medical plans.  The marine and aviation unit focuses
on ceding companies with a particular expertise in marine and aviation business.
The marine and  aviation  business  is written  primarily  through  brokers  and
contains a significant  international  component written primarily in the London
market.   Surety  business  underwritten  by  the  Company  consists  mainly  of
reinsurance of contract surety bonds

Gross premiums written by the A&H unit in 2000 totaled $211.6 million,  of which
$59.2  million was  written  through  the broker  market and $152.4  million was
written through the direct market. Substantially all of the business was written
on a proportional basis.


Gross  premiums  written by the marine and aviation  unit in 2000 totaled  $53.0
million,  substantially  all of which was written on a treaty basis and 83.4% of
which was sourced through reinsurance brokers. Marine treaties represented 52.8%
of marine and aviation  gross premiums  written in 2000 and consisted  mainly of
hull and liability coverage.  Approximately 87.3% of the marine unit premiums in
2000 were  written  on a pro rata  basis and 12.7 % as excess of loss.  Aviation
premiums  accounted for 47.2% of marine and aviation gross  premiums  written in
2000 and included  reinsurance  for airlines,  general  aviation and satellites.
Approximately  85.6% of the aviation  unit's  premiums in 2000 were written on a
pro rata basis and 14.4% as excess of loss.

In 2000,  gross  premiums  written by the surety  unit  totaled  $53.7  million.
Approximately  71.9% of the surety unit  premiums in 2000 were  written on a pro
rata  basis  and  28.1% on an excess of loss  basis.  Most of the  portfolio  is
reinsurance  of contract  surety bonds written  directly with ceding  companies,
with the remainder being credit  reinsurance,  mostly in international  markets.
The unit's strategy is to maintain long-term relationships with major surety and
fidelity writers and to continue to expand its international business.

INTERNATIONAL  OPERATION.  The Company's  International operation is designed to
enable  it to  capitalize  on the  growth  opportunities  in  the  international
reinsurance   market.  The  Company  targets  several   international   markets,
including:  Europe and the London  markets,  which are  serviced  by branches in
Brussels and London; Canada, with a branch in Toronto; Asia and Australia,  with
a branch in  Singapore;  and Latin  America,  Africa and the Middle East,  which
business is serviced from Everest Re's New Jersey headquarters and Miami office.
The Company also writes "home-foreign"  business,  which provides reinsurance on
the international  portfolios of U.S. insurers,  from New Jersey.  Approximately
61.5% of the gross premiums written by the Company's international  underwriters
in 2000 represented  property business,  while the balance represented  casualty
business.  As with its U.S. operations,  the Company's  International  operation
focuses  on  financially   sound  companies  that  have  strong  management  and
underwriting  discipline  and  expertise.  Approximately  78.2% of the Company's
international  business was written through brokers,  with the remainder written
directly with ceding companies.

In 2000,  the  Company's  gross  premiums  written  by its  Brussels  and London
branches  totaled  $134.6  million and consisted of pro rata  property  (48.3%),
excess property (25.8%),  pro rata casualty (12.5%) and excess casualty (13.4%).
Substantially  all of the  Brussels  and  London  premiums  consisted  of treaty
reinsurance. The Brussels office focuses on the continental European reinsurance
markets,  while the London office covers international  business written through
the London market.

Gross premiums written by the Company's Canadian office totaled $55.6 million in
2000 and consisted of pro rata property  (8.8%),  excess  property (11.0 %), pro
rata  multi-line  (47.6%),  excess  casualty  (31.0%) and  insurance  written by
Everest Canada (1.6%). Approximately 74.5% of the Canadian premiums consisted of
treaty reinsurance, while 23.9% was facultative reinsurance and 1.6% was primary
insurance.

The  Company's  Singapore  branch  covers the Asian and  Australian  markets and
accounted  for $23.7 million of gross  written  premiums in 2000.  This business
consisted  of pro rata  property  (54.6%),  excess  property  (13.3%),  pro rata
casualty (26.4%) and excess casualty (5.7%).


International  business written out of Everest Re's New Jersey and Miami offices
accounted for $109.7 million of gross premiums  written in 2000 and consisted of
pro rata treaty  property  (54.6%),  pro rata treaty  casualty  (26.1%),  excess
treaty property  (9.4%),  excess treaty  casualty (5.8%) and excess  facultative
property and casualty (4.1%). Of this international business,  45.1% was sourced
from Latin  America,  25.6% was sourced from the Middle East,  10.0% was sourced
from the Caribbean, 5.9% was sourced from Europe, Africa and Asia, and 13.4% was
"home-foreign" business.

BERMUDA  OPERATION.  The Company's Bermuda operation writes property,  casualty,
life and annuity  business  through  Bermuda Re. In 2000, the Bermuda  operation
began writing business and had gross premiums written of $11.6 million.

GEOGRAPHIC AREAS
The Company  conducts  its  business in Bermuda,  in the United  States and in a
number of foreign countries.  For select financial  information about geographic
areas,  see Note 15 of Notes to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.  Risks
attendant to the foreign  operations of the Company  parallel those attendant to
the United  States  operations  of the  Company,  with the primary  exception of
foreign  exchange risks.  See ITEM 7,  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Safe Harbor Disclosure".

UNDERWRITING PROCESS
The  Company  offers  ceding  companies  full  service   capability,   including
actuarial,  claims,  accounting and systems support,  either directly or through
the broker  community.  The  Company's  capacity for both  property and casualty
risks allows it to underwrite  entire  contracts or major portions  thereof that
might otherwise need to be syndicated  among several  reinsurers.  The Company's
strategy is to act as "lead"  reinsurer in many of the  reinsurance  treaties it
underwrites. The lead reinsurer on a treaty generally accepts one of the largest
percentage  shares of the  treaty  and is in a stronger  position  to  negotiate
price,  terms and conditions than is a reinsurer which takes a smaller position.
Management  believes this strategy enables it to more effectively  influence the
terms and conditions of the treaties on which it participates.  When the Company
does not lead the  treaty,  it may still  suggest  changes  to any aspect of the
treaty.  The  Company  may  decline to  participate  in a treaty  based upon its
assessment of all relevant factors.

The Company's treaty  underwriting  process emphasizes a team approach among the
Company's  underwriters,  actuaries and claims staff.  Treaties are reviewed for
compliance with the Company's general underwriting  standards and certain larger
treaties are evaluated in part based upon actuarial analyses by the Company. The
actuarial  models  used in  such  analyses  are  tailored  in  each  case to the
exposures and experience  underlying the specific treaty and the loss experience
for the risks covered by such treaties. The Company does not separately evaluate
each of the  individual  risks  assumed  under its  treaties.  The Company does,
however,  generally evaluate the underwriting guidelines of its ceding companies
to determine their adequacy prior to entering into a treaty.  The Company,  when
appropriate,  also conducts  underwriting,  operational  and claim audits at the
offices of ceding companies to ensure that the ceding  companies  operate within
such  guidelines.  Underwriting  audits focus on the quality of the underwriting
staff, the selection and pricing of risks and the capability of monitoring price
levels over time.  Claim  audits,  when  appropriate,  are performed in order to
evaluate the client's claims handling abilities and practices.


The Company's U.S. facultative underwriters operate within guidelines specifying
acceptable types of risks, limits and maximum risk exposures.  Specified classes
of risks and large  premium  risks are  referred  to the  Everest  Re's New York
facultative headquarters for specific review before premium quotations are given
to clients. In addition, the Company's guidelines require certain types of risks
to be submitted  for review  because of their  aggregate  limits,  complexity or
volatility regardless of premium amount or size of the insured on the underlying
contract.

The  Company's  insurance  operations  principally  write  property and casualty
coverages for homogeneous risks through select program managers.  These programs
are  evaluated  based  upon  actuarial   analysis  and  the  program   manager's
capabilities.  The  Company's  rates,  forms  and  underwriting  guidelines  are
tailored to specific risk types. The Company's  underwriting,  actuarial,  claim
and  financial  functions  work closely  with its program  managers to establish
appropriate  underwriting  and  processing  guidelines  as well  as  appropriate
monitoring mechanisms.

RISK MANAGEMENT AND RETROCESSION ARRANGEMENTS
The Company manages its risk of loss through a combination of aggregate exposure
limits,  underwriting  guidelines  that  take into  account  risks,  prices  and
coverage, and retrocessional arrangements.

The  Company is exposed  to  multiple  insured  losses  arising  out of a single
occurrence,  whether a natural event,  such as a hurricane or an earthquake,  or
other catastrophe,  such as a riot or an explosion at a major factory.  Any such
catastrophic event could generate insured losses in one or many of the Company's
treaties or lines of business. The Company employs various techniques, including
licensed  software  modeling,  to assess its  accumulated  exposure  to property
catastrophe losses and summarizes that exposure in terms of the probable maximum
loss ("PML").  The Company defines PML as its anticipated maximum property loss,
taking into account contract limits,  caused by a single catastrophe affecting a
broad  contiguous  geographic  area,  such  as that  caused  by a  hurricane  or
earthquake  of such a  magnitude  that it is expected to occur once in every 100
years.

Management  estimates that the Company's greatest catastrophe exposure worldwide
from any single event is to hurricanes and earthquakes in the coastal regions of
the United  States,  where the Company  estimates it has a PML exposure,  before
reinsurance,  of  approximately  $203  million in each such region  based on its
current  book of  business.  Similarly,  management  estimates  that the largest
current  PML  exposure,  before  reinsurance,   outside  the  United  States  is
approximately $102 million.  There can be no assurance that the Company will not
experience losses from one or more catastrophic events that exceed, perhaps by a
substantial amount, its estimated PML.

Underwriting  guidelines  have been  established  for each business unit.  These
guidelines  place  dollar  limits on the amount of business  that can be written
based on a variety of  factors,  including  ceding  company,  line of  business,
geographical  location and risk hazards.  In each case, those guidelines  permit
limited exceptions, which must be authorized by the Company's senior management.

The  Company  does  not  typically   purchase   reinsurance  to  cover  specific
reinsurance   business   written,   but  does  from   time  to  time,   purchase
retrocessional  protections  where the  underwriter  deems it to be  prudent  to
reinsure a portion of the specific  risks being  assumed.  In 2000 and 2001, the
Company  purchased an excess property  facultative  retrocessional  program,  an


excess  retrocessional  workers'  compensation  program  and an excess  property
catastrophe  program for losses  incurred  outside of the U.S.  The Company also
participates  in  "common  account"  retrocessional   arrangements  for  certain
reinsurance treaties.  Common account reinsurance  arrangements are arrangements
whereby  the  ceding  company  purchases  a cover for the  benefit of the ceding
company  and  its   reinsurers  on  a   reinsurance   treaty.   Common   account
retrocessional  arrangements reduce the effect of individual or aggregate losses
to all participating  companies with respect to a reinsurance treaty,  including
the ceding company.

The Company typically purchases  reinsurance to cover insurance programs written
by the U.S.  Insurance  operation.  For policies  incepting on or after November
1998, the Company  purchased a workers'  compensation  reinsurance  program that
provided  for  statutory  limits  coverage  in excess of  $75,000  of losses per
occurrence on the Company's  workers'  compensation  insurance  business written
prior to  November  1, 2000.  Since  November  1, 2000,  this  primary  workers'
compensation reinsurance program provides statutory limits coverage in excess of
$250,000 of losses per  occurrence.  In addition,  for the  twelve-month  period
commencing  July 31,  2000,  the Company  purchased  reinsurance  for a specific
program of  business.  The  reinsurance,  subject to certain  aggregate  limits,
covers  U.S.  Longshore  and  Harbor  Workers'  Compensation  Act and  state act
workers'  compensation business for 100% of loss occurrences up to $100 million.
Consistent with the $1 million limits of the underlying policies in the program,
reinsurance for 100% of Maritime Employers  Liability and Employers Liability is
also provided.

The Company also purchases a corporate level retrocession covering the potential
accumulation of all exposures.  For 2001, the Company purchased an accident year
aggregate  excess of loss  retrocession  agreement  which  provides up to $175.0
million of coverage if Everest Re's  consolidated  statutory basis accident year
loss ratio exceeds a loss ratio  attachment  point  provided in the contract for
the 2001 accident year. The attachment  point is net of inuring  reinsurance and
retrocessions and includes  adjustable premium provisions that effectively cause
the  Company to offset,  on a pre-tax  income  basis,  up to 52.9% of such ceded
losses,   depending  upon  the  character  of  the  underlying  losses,  through
additional premiums. The maximum recovery is $175.0 million before giving effect
to a maximum adjustable premium of $82.5 million. Similar coverage was purchased
and remains in effect for the 2000 and 1999 accident  years,  although  cessions
under the 1999 cover have reduced the limit available to $105.0 million.

Although the catastrophe and aggregate excess of loss  retrocessions  have terms
which provide for additional premiums to be paid to the  retrocessionaire in the
event that losses are ceded, all aspects of the Company's retrocessional program
have  been  structured  to  permit  these  agreements  to be  accounted  for  as
reinsurance under Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 113.
If a single catastrophe were to occur in the United States that resulted in $203
million of gross losses and allocated loss adjustment  expenses ("ALAE") in 2001
(an amount  equivalent  to the Company's  PML),  management  estimates  that the
effect  (including  additional  premiums  and  retained  losses and ALAE) on the
Company's income would be  approximately  $98 million and $63 million before and
after  taxes,  respectively.  This  pre-tax net loss  estimate  assumes that the
Company's  aggregate  losses and ALAE for 2001 would exceed the  threshold  loss
ratio  requirement  in the  aggregate  excess of loss  cover by at least  $175.0
million.

In  addition,  the  Company  has  coverage  under an  aggregate  excess  of loss
reinsurance  agreement  provided by Prudential  Property and Casualty  Insurance
Company of Indiana ("Prupac"),  a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Prudential,  in


connection  with the Company's  acquisition of Mt.  McKinley in September  2000.
This  agreement  covers 80% or $160  million  of the first  $200  million of any
adverse loss reserve  development on the carried reserves of Mt. McKinley at the
date of  acquisition  and  reimburses the Company as such losses are paid by the
Company. There were no cessions under this reinsurance at December 31, 2000.

In connection with the Mt. McKinley acquisition,  Prupac also provided an excess
of loss  reinsurance  for 100% of the first $8.5 million of loss with respect to
certain  of  Mt.   McKinley's   retrocessions   and  potentially   uncollectible
reinsurance coverage. There were $3.3 million of cessions under this reinsurance
at December 31, 2000.

As of December  31,  2000,  the Company  carried as an asset  $509.0  million in
reinsurance  receivables  with respect to losses ceded.  Of this amount,  $145.0
million,   or  28.5%,   was  receivable  from  Continental   Insurance   Company
("Continental")  and $70.0 million or 13.8% was receivable  from London Life and
Casualty Reinsurance Corp. ("London Life"). No other retrocessionaire  accounted
for  more  than  $25.0  million  of  the  Company's  receivables.  See  ITEM  7,
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations - Financial Condition".

The Company's  arrangements  with  Continental  and London Life are managed on a
funds held basis, which means that the Company has not released premium payments
to the  retrocessionaire  but rather retains such payments to secure obligations
of the  retrocessionaire,  records them as a liability and reduces the liability
account as payments  become due. As of December 31, 2000, such funds had reduced
the Company's net exposure to  Continental  and London Life to $74.4 million and
$33.5 million, respectively.

No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to obtain retrocessional
coverage  in the  future  similar  to  that  currently  in  place.  The  Company
continuously  evaluates  its  exposures  and risk  capacities  in the context of
reinsurance  market  conditions,  at both  the  specific  and  corporate  level.
Although management carefully selects its reinsurers,  the Company is subject to
credit  risk with  respect  to its  reinsurance  because  the  ceding of risk to
reinsurers  does not relieve the Company of its  liability to insureds or ceding
companies.

MT. MCKINLEY INSURANCE COMPANY-ACQUISITION
The Company  completed its  acquisition of Gibraltar,  subsequently  renamed Mt.
McKinley,  in September  2000. In connection  with the  acquisition,  the seller
provided the  reinsurance  described  above and the Company  terminated  certain
relationships  between Mt. McKinley and its former parent,  The Prudential,  and
its affiliates.  Mt.  McKinley's  ongoing  operations relate to servicing claims
arising from (1) insurance  written by Mt. McKinley or Everest Re prior to 1985,
(2)  reinsurance  of  insurance  business  and  certain  Everest Re  reinsurance
business  written prior to 1991 which had  previously  been reinsured with third
parties and commuted with these third parties into Mt. McKinley and (3) exposure
to adverse loss  reserve  development  on Everest  Re's  reserves as of June 30,
1995,  which  exposure was assumed by Mt.  McKinley at the time of the Company's
initial public offering.

CLAIMS
Claims  are  managed  by  the   Company's   professional   claims   staff  whose
responsibilities  include  reviewing  initial loss reports and coverage  issues,
monitoring  claims handling  activities of ceding  companies,  establishing  and
adjusting proper case reserves and approving  payment of claims.  In addition to
claims assessment, processing and payment, the claims staff selectively conducts
comprehensive   claims  audits  of  both  specific  claims  and  overall  claims


procedures  at the  offices of selected  ceding  companies.  In most  instances,
insurance  claims are handled by third party claims services  providers who have
limited  authority  and are subject to oversight by the  Company's  professional
claims staff.

RESERVES FOR UNPAID PROPERTY AND CASUALTY LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
Significant  periods of time may elapse  between  the  occurrence  of an insured
loss,  the reporting of the loss to the insurer and the reinsurer and payment of
that  loss  by  the  insurer  and  subsequent  payments  to the  insurer  by the
reinsurer.  To  recognize  liabilities  for unpaid  losses  and loss  adjustment
expenses ("LAE"),  insurers and reinsurers establish reserves, which are balance
sheet  liabilities  representing  estimates  of  future  amounts  needed  to pay
reported and unreported  claims and related expenses on losses that have already
occurred.  Actual losses and LAE paid may deviate,  perhaps substantially,  from
such reserves.  To the extent  reserves prove to be insufficient to cover actual
losses and LAE after taking into account  available  reinsurance  coverage,  the
Company  would have to augment  such  reserves  and incur a charge to  earnings,
which could be material in the period such augmentation takes place. See ITEM 7,
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations -- Loss and LAE Reserves".

While the reserving process is difficult and subjective for insurance companies,
the inherent  uncertainties of estimating such reserves are even greater for the
reinsurer,  due  primarily to the longer time between the date of an  occurrence
and the reporting of any  attendant  claims to the  reinsurer,  the diversity of
development   patterns  among  different   types  of  reinsurance   treaties  or
facultative  contracts,  the  necessary  reliance  on the ceding  companies  for
information  regarding reported claims and differing  reserving  practices among
ceding  companies.  In  addition,  trends  that  have  affected  development  of
liabilities  in  the  past  may  not  necessarily   occur  or  affect  liability
development to the same degree in the future. As a result, actual losses and LAE
may deviate, perhaps substantially,  from estimates of reserves reflected in the
Company's consolidated financial statements.

Like many other property and casualty insurance and reinsurance  companies,  the
Company has experienced adverse loss development for prior accident years, which
has led to adjustments in losses and LAE reserves.  The increase in net reserves
for prior  accident  years  reduced  net  income  for the  periods  in which the
adjustments were made.  There can be no assurance that adverse  development from
prior  years will not  continue in the future or that such  adverse  development
will not have a material adverse effect on net income.

CHANGES IN HISTORICAL RESERVES
The following  table shows  changes in historical  loss reserves for the Company
for 1990 and  subsequent  years.  The table is  presented on a GAAP basis except
that  the  Company's  loss  reserves  for its  Canadian  branch  operations  are
presented in Canadian dollars, the impact of which is not material. The top line
of each table shows the estimated reserves for unpaid losses and LAE recorded at
each year-end date. Each amount in the top line represents the estimated  amount
of future  payments  for losses and LAE on claims  occurring in that year and in
all prior years.  The upper (paid)  portion of the table presents the cumulative
amounts  paid through each  subsequent  year on those claims for which  reserves
were carried as of each  specific year end. The lower  (liability  re-estimated)
portion shows the re-estimated  amount of the previously recorded reserves based
on experience as of the end of each  succeeding  year.  The estimate  changes as
more  information  becomes  known about the actual  claims for which the initial


reserves were carried. The cumulative  redundancy/deficiency line represents the
cumulative change in estimates since the initial reserve was established.  It is
equal to the latest liability re-estimated amount less the initial reserve.

Each amount other than the original  reserves in the top half of the table below
includes the effects of all changes in amounts for prior  periods.  For example,
if a loss settled in 1993 for $100,000 was first reserved in 1990 at $60,000 and
remained  unchanged until settlement,  the $40,000 deficiency (actual loss minus
original estimate) would be included in the cumulative  redundancy  (deficiency)
in each of the years in the period 1990 through 1992 shown below. Conditions and
trends  that  have  affected  development  of  liability  in the  past  may  not
necessarily  occur in the  future.  Accordingly,  it may not be  appropriate  to
extrapolate future redundancies or deficiencies based on this table.


        TEN YEAR GAAP LOSS DEVELOPMENT TABLE PRESENTED NET OF REINSURANCE
                      with Supplemental Gross Data (1) (2)



- ----------
(1) Includes Mt. McKinley data through September 30, 1991 and for 2000.
(2) The Canadian Branch reserves are reflected in Canadian dollars.


For years  prior to 1990,  management  believes  that two  factors  had the most
significant impact on loss development.  First, through the mid-1980's, a number
of industry  and external  factors,  such as the  propensity  of courts to award
large damage awards in liability cases,  combined to increase loss frequency and
severity to unexpectedly  high levels.  Second,  contracts written prior to 1986
contained  coverage  terms  which,  for the Company and the industry in general,
have  been   interpreted  by  courts  to  provide   coverage  for  asbestos  and
environmental  exposures not  contemplated  by either the pricing or the initial
reserving  of  the   contracts.   Legal   developments   during  the  mid-1980's
necessitated additional reserving for such exposures on both a case and incurred
but not reported  ("IBNR")  basis.  Net incurred losses with respect to asbestos
and environmental  claims, net of reinsurance,  were ($5.8) million, $0 million,
$15.4 million,  $3.5 million, and $0 million in 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.  Substantially all of these losses related to pre-1986  exposures.
The favorable  loss  development  in 2000 relates to a commutation  completed in
2000.  The  absence  of net  incurred  losses  in 1996 is  attributable  to 100%
coverage  under  the stop  loss  agreement,  a  reinsurance  agreement  with Mt.
McKinley,  which was then a subsidiary of The  Prudential,  and which  agreement
commenced in 1995,  when the Company was sold in an initial  public  offering by
The Prudential.  The net incurred losses in 1998 and 1997 reflected  coinsurance
under the same stop loss agreement.

Management believes that adequate provision has been made for the Company's loss
and LAE reserves.  While there can be no assurance  that reserves for and losses
from these claims will not increase in the future,  management believes that the
Company's   existing  reserves  and  retrocessional   arrangements   lessen  the
probability  that such  increases  would have a material  adverse  effect on the
Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

The Ten Year GAAP Loss  Development  Table  includes  Mt.  McKinley  data  until
September  30,  1991,  at which  time  Everest Re  distributed  the stock of Mt.
McKinley  to  PRUCO,  Inc.,  a  subsidiary  of The  Prudential.  Thus,  the 1990
"Reserves  for  unpaid  loss  and  LAE"  includes  the Mt.  McKinley  liability.
Similarly, the "Paid (cumulative) as of" and "Liability re-estimated as of" data
include Mt.  McKinley  experience  until  September 30, 1991. At the time of the
distribution of Mt. McKinley,  Mt. McKinley still had $288.5 million of reserves
outstanding.  To more accurately  reflect reserve  development in the context of
the  distribution,  the Mt. McKinley reserves were removed from the reserves for
unpaid  losses and LAE line for  periods  after 1991 and the $288.5  million was
treated as a paid loss. The amount so treated as paid in 1991 was $288.5 million
for the year 1990. The cumulative reserve (deficiency)  relating to Mt. McKinley
for 1990 was ($30.0) million.  The cumulative reserve  (deficiency)  relating to


the Company excluding Mt. McKinley for 1990 was ($327.4)  million.  The reserves
for unpaid loss and LAE for 2000 include $480.9 million relating to Mt. McKinley
at December 31, 2000,  principally  reflecting  $491.1  million of Mt.  McKinley
reserves at the acquisition date.

The  following  table is derived from the Ten Year GAAP Loss  Development  Table
above and summarizes the effect of reserve re-estimates,  net of reinsurance, on
calendar year  operations for the same ten-year  period ended December 31, 2000.
Each column represents the amount of reserve  re-estimates made in the indicated
calendar  year and  shows  the  accident  years to which  the  re-estimates  are
applicable.  The  amounts  in the total  accident  year  column on the far right
represent the cumulative reserve re-estimates for the indicated accident years.

            EFFECT OF RESERVE REESTIMATES ON CALENDAR YEAR OPERATIONS


As illustrated by this table, the factors which caused the deficiencies shown in
the Ten Year GAAP Loss  Development  Table  relate  almost  entirely to accident
years  prior  to  1990  principally   reflecting  the  impact  of  asbestos  and
environmental  exposures discussed above. The significant  favorable development
experienced  for the  1995  accident  year is due to  aggregate  excess  of loss
reinsurance  provided to the Company at the time of its Initial Public Offering.
This  contract,  because of its 1995  inception  date, is attributed to the 1995
accident year.  Aggregate historical  development  excluding the impact of these
two unusual items is not material.


The following  table presents a  reconciliation  of beginning and ending reserve
balances for the years indicated on a GAAP basis:

                  RECONCILIATION OF RESERVES FOR LOSSES AND LAE


(1)  Current year paid losses for 2000  are  net  of  ($483.8) million resulting
from the acquisition of Mt. McKinley.


RESERVES FOR ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
The Company's  reserves include an estimate of the Company's  ultimate liability
for  asbestos  and  environmental  claims  for which  ultimate  value  cannot be
estimated  using  traditional  reserving   techniques.   There  are  significant
uncertainties  in estimating the amount of the Company's  potential  losses from
asbestos and  environmental  claims.  See ITEM 7,  "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and  Results of  Operations  -- Asbestos  and
Environmental  Exposures"  and  Note  12  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.


The following  table  summarizes the composition of the Company's total reserves
for asbestos and  environmental  losses,  gross and net of  reinsurance  for the
years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.


- ------------------
(1)   In 2000,  Holdings acquired Mt. McKinley,  resulting in an increase to the
      Company's gross and net asbestos and environmental exposure.


Additional  losses,  the type or  magnitude  of which  cannot be foreseen by the
Company, or the reinsurance and insurance industry generally,  may emerge in the
future.   Such  future  emergence,   to  the  extent  not  covered  by  existing
retrocessional  contracts,  could have material adverse effects on the Company's
future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


FUTURE POLICY BENEFIT RESERVES
Future policy benefit  liabilities for annuities are reported at the accumulated
fund balance of these  contracts.  These  reserves  include both  mortality  and
morbidity  provisions with respect to life and annuity claims, both reported and
unreported.  Actual  experience in a particular period may be worse than assumed
experience  and,  consequently,  may adversely  affect the  Company's  operating
results  for  the  period.  See  Note  1F of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.

INVESTMENTS
The Company's overall financial strength and results of operations are, in part,
dependent  on the quality  and  performance  of its  investment  portfolio.  Net
investment  income and net  realized  capital  gains  (losses) on the  Company's
invested assets constituted 20.4%, 18.1% and 18.6% of the Company's revenues for
the years ending December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998,  respectively.  The Company's
cash and invested assets totaled  $5,493.0 million at December 31, 2000 of which
92.4% were cash or investment grade fixed maturities.

The Company's  current  investment  strategy seeks to maximize  after-tax income
through a high  quality,  diversified,  taxable bond and  tax-preferenced  fixed
maturity  portfolio,  while  maintaining  an adequate  level of  liquidity.  The
Company's   mix  of  taxable  and   tax-preferenced   investments   is  adjusted
continuously,  consistent  with the Company's  current and  projected  operating
results, market conditions and tax position.  Additionally,  the Company invests
in equity  securities  which it believes  will enhance the  risk-adjusted  total
return of the investment portfolio.

The  board  of  directors  of  each  company  is  responsible  for  establishing
investment  policy and  guidelines  and,  together with senior  management,  for
overseeing their execution.  The Company's investment portfolio is in compliance
with the  insurance  laws of the  jurisdictions  in which its  subsidiaries  are
regulated. An independent investment advisor is utilized to manage the Company's
investment portfolio within the established guidelines and is required to report
activities  on a  current  basis and to meet with the  Company  periodically  to
review and discuss the portfolio structure, securities selection and performance
results.

The Company's investment guidelines include a current duration guideline of five
to six years.  The  duration of an  investment  is based on the  maturity of the
security but also reflects the payment of interest and the  possibility of early
prepayment of such security.  This investment  duration guideline is established
and periodically  revised by management,  which considers  economic and business
factors.  An important  factor is the  Company's  average  duration of potential
liabilities,  which,  at December 31, 2000, is estimated at  approximately  five
years based on the estimated payouts of underwriting  liabilities using standard
duration calculations.

Approximately 7.9% of the Company's consolidated reserves for losses and LAE and
unearned premiums  represents  estimated amounts payable in foreign  currencies.
For each currency in which the Company has established substantial reserves, the
Company seeks to maintain  invested  assets  denominated  in such currency in an
amount  approximately   comparable  to  the  estimated   liabilities  which  are
denominated in such currency.

As of December 31, 2000, 98.8% of the Company's total  investments and cash were
comprised of fixed maturity investments or cash and 93.4% of the Company's fixed
maturities  consisted of investment  grade  securities.  The average maturity of
fixed  maturities was 7.9 years at December 31, 2000, and their overall duration
was 4.8 years. As of December 31, 2000, the Company did not have any investments
in  commercial  real  estate  or direct  commercial  mortgages  or any  material
holdings  of   derivative   investments   or  securities  of  issuers  that  are
experiencing  cash flow  difficulty to an extent that the  Company's  management
believes could threaten the issuer's ability to meet debt service payments.


As of December 31, 2000, the Company's common stock portfolio had a market value
of $36.5 million,  comprising 0.7% of total  investments and cash and is managed
with a growth and income  orientation  consisting  primarily of  investments  in
dividend-paying mid- and large- capitalization companies.

The following table reflects  investment results for the Company for each of the
five years in the period ended December 31, 2000:


- -----------------
(1)   Average of the beginning and ending  carrying  values of  investments  and
      cash, less net funds held and  non-interest  bearing cash.  Bonds,  common
      stock and redeemable and  non-redeemable  preferred  stocks are carried at
      market value.
(2)   After investment expenses, excluding realized net capital gains (losses).


The  following  table  summarizes  fixed  maturities as of December 31, 2000 and
1999:



The following  table presents the credit quality  distribution  of the Company's
fixed maturities as of December 31, 2000:



The following table summarizes  fixed  maturities by contractual  maturity as of
December 31, 2000:

- ------------
(1)    Mortgage-backed  securities  generally are more likely to be prepaid than
       other fixed maturities.  Therefore,  contractual  maturities are excluded
       from this table since they may not be indicative of actual maturities.
(2)    Certain totals may not reconcile due to rounding.


RATINGS
The  following  table  shows the  financial  strength  ratings of the  Company's
operating  subsidiaries  as  reported  by A.M.  Best,  Standard & Poor's  Rating
Services  ("Standard & Poor's) and Moody's Investor Service  ("Moody's").  These
ratings  are based upon  factors of concern to  policyholders  and should not be
considered  an  indication  of the degree or lack of risk  involved in an equity
investment in an insurance company.



A.M.  Best  states  that the  "A+"  ("Superior")  rating  is  assigned  to those
companies which, in its opinion,  have, on balance,  achieved superior financial
strength,  operating  performance  and  market  profile  when  compared  to  the
standards  established by A.M. Best and have  demonstrated a very strong ability
to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The "A+" ("Superior") rating
is the second highest of fifteen ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from
"A++" ("Superior") to "F" ("In Liquidation"). Additionally, A.M. Best has eleven
classifications  within the "Not  Assigned"  category.  Standard & Poor's states
that the "AA-" rating is assigned to those  insurance  companies  which,  in its
opinion,   offer  excellent  financial  security  and  whose  capacity  to  meet
policyholder  obligations is strong under a variety of economic and underwriting
conditions.  The "AA-" rating is the fourth highest of nineteen ratings assigned
by  Standard & Poor's,  which  range from "AAA"  (Superior)  to "R"  (Regulatory
Action). Ratings from AA to B may be modified by the use of a plus or minus sign
to show  relative  standing  of the  insurer  within  those  rating  categories.
Ratings,  denoted with a "pi" subscript,  are ratings based on Standard & Poor's
analysis of published financial information and do not reflect in-depth meetings
with the  Company's  management.  The "BB pi" and "B pi" ratings are the twelfth
and fifteenth highest of the nineteen Standard & Poor's ratings.  Moody's states
that  insurance  companies  rated "A" offer good  financial  security.  However,
elements may be present  which  suggest a  susceptibility  to  impairment in the
future.  Moody's  rating  gradations  are shown through the use of nine distinct
symbols,  each  symbol  representing  a group of ratings in which the  financial
security is broadly the same.  The "A1"  (Good)  rating is the fifth  highest of
ratings  assigned  by  Moody's,  which  range  from "Aaa"  (Exceptional)  to "C"
(Lowest).  Moody's  further  distinguishes  the ranking of an insurer within its
generic  rating  classification  from  Aa to B with  1, 2 and 3 ("1"  being  the
highest).

The following table shows the investment  grade ratings of the Holdings'  senior
notes due March 15, 2005 and March 15, 2010 by A.M. Best,  Standard & Poor's and
Moody's.  Debt ratings are a current assessment of the  credit-worthiness  of an
obligor with respect to a specific obligation.




A company with a debt rating of "a" is  considered by A.M. Best to have a strong
capacity and willingness to meet the terms of the obligation and possesses a low
level of credit risk. The "a" rating is the sixth highest of 19 ratings assigned
by A.M.  Best,  which range from "aaa" to "ccc". A company with a debt rating of
"A-" is  considered  by  Standard  &  Poor's  to have a strong  capacity  to pay
interest and repay  principal,  although it is somewhat more  susceptible to the
adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions than debt in
higher rated  categories.  The "A-" rating from Standard & Poor's is the seventh
highest of 24 ratings  assigned by Standard & Poor's,  which range from "AAA" to
"D".  A  company   with  a  debt  rating  of  "A3"  is   considered   to  be  an
upper-medium-grade  obligation  by  Moody's.  This  rating  represents  adequate
capacity with respect to repayment of principal  and interest,  but elements may
be present which suggest a susceptibility to impairment  sometime in the future.
The "A3" rating is the seventh  highest of 21 ratings  assigned by Moody's which
range from "AAA" to "C".

All of the  above-mentioned  ratings are continually  monitored and revised,  if
necessary, by each of the rating agencies.

COMPETITION
The worldwide reinsurance and insurance businesses are highly competitive. Since
late 1999, market conditions,  including  unfavorable  industry-wide  results of
operations,  have  led to  modest  premium  rate  increases  as well  as  modest
improvements  in  contract  terms  in a  number  of  lines  of  reinsurance  and
insurance.  These changes reflect a reversal of the trend from 1987 through 1999
toward  increasingly  competitive  global market conditions across most lines of
business as reflected by decreasing  prices and broadening  contract terms.  The
earlier  trend  resulted  from a number of factors,  including  the emergence of


significant  reinsurance  capacity in Bermuda, a rejuvenated  Lloyd's market and
consolidation  and increased capital levels in the insurance  industry.  Many of
these same  factors  continue to operate.  As a result,  although the Company is
encouraged  by the recent  improvements,  the Company  cannot  predict  with any
reasonable certainty whether and to what extent these improvements will persist.

Competition  with respect to the types of reinsurance and insurance  business in
which the Company is engaged is based on many  factors,  including the perceived
overall  financial  strength of the  reinsurer or insurer,  the A.M. Best and/or
Standard & Poor's  rating of the reinsurer or insurer,  underwriting  expertise,
the  jurisdictions  where the  reinsurer  or insurer is  licensed  or  otherwise
authorized,  premiums charged, other terms and conditions of the reinsurance and
insurance  business  offered,  services  offered,  speed of claims  payment  and
reputation and experience in lines written.  The Company  competes in the United
States,  Bermuda  and  international  reinsurance  and  insurance  markets  with
numerous  international and domestic  reinsurance and insurance  companies.  The
Company's  competitors include independent  reinsurance and insurance companies,
subsidiaries  or  affiliates  of  established   worldwide  insurance  companies,
reinsurance   departments  of  certain  insurance  companies  and  domestic  and
international  underwriting  operations,  including  underwriting  syndicates at
Lloyd's of London.  Some of these competitors have greater  financial  resources
than  the  Company  and  have  established  long-term  and  continuing  business
relationships  throughout the industry,  which can be a significant  competitive
advantage.  In addition,  the potential for  securitization  of reinsurance  and
insurance  risks through the capital  markets  provide an  additional  source of
reinsurance and insurance capacity and competition.

EMPLOYEES
As of March 1, 2001, the Company employed 442 persons.  Management believes that
its employee relations are good. None of the Company's  employees are subject to
collective  bargaining  agreements,  and the Company is not aware of any current
efforts to implement such agreements.

INFORMATION RELATING TO DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS
Financial information relating to geographic  areas of operation is set forth in
Note  15 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  of the  Company  is
incorporated herein by reference.

REGULATORY MATTERS
The Company and its insurance  subsidiaries  are subject to regulation under the
insurance statutes of the various  jurisdictions in which they conduct business,
including  essentially  all  states of the  United  States,  Canada,  Hong Kong,
Singapore,   the  United  Kingdom  and  Bermuda.  These  regulations  vary  from
jurisdiction  to  jurisdiction  and are  generally  designed  to protect  ceding
insurance  companies and  policyholders  by regulating the Company's  conduct of
business,  financial  integrity and ability to meet its obligations  relating to
its business  transactions  and operations.  Many of these  regulations  require
reporting  of  information  designed to allow  insurance  regulators  to closely
monitor the Company's performance.

INSURANCE  HOLDING COMPANY  REGULATION.  Under applicable United States laws and
regulations,  no person,  corporation  or other entity may acquire a controlling
interest in the Company, unless such person,  corporation or entity has obtained
the prior  approval for such  acquisition  from the Insurance  Commissioners  of
Delaware and the other states in which the Company's insurance  subsidiaries are
domiciled,  currently  Arizona  and  Georgia.  Under these  laws,  "control"  is
presumed when any person  acquires,  directly or indirectly,  10% or more of the


voting securities of an insurance company.  To obtain the approval of any change
in control,  the proposed  acquirer must file an  application  with the relevant
insurance commissioner disclosing, among other things, the acquirer's background
and that of its directors and officers, the acquirer's financial condition,  and
its proposed changes in the management and operations of the insurance  company.
U.S.  state  regulators  also  require  prior notice or  regulatory  approval of
material inter-affiliate  transactions within the holding company structure. See
"Dividends".

The  Insurance  Companies  Act of Canada  also  requires  prior  approval by the
Minister of Finance of anyone acquiring a significant  interest in an authorized
Canadian insurance company. In addition, the Company is subject to regulation by
the insurance  regulators of other states and foreign  jurisdictions in which it
does  business.  Certain  of  these  states  and  foreign  jurisdictions  impose
regulations  regulating  the  ability  of any  person to  acquire  control of an
insurance  company  authorized  to do  business  in  that  jurisdiction  without
appropriate regulatory approval similar to those described above.

DIVIDENDS.  Under Bermuda law,  Group is prohibited  from  declaring or paying a
dividend if such payment would reduce the  realizable  value of its assets to an
amount less than the  aggregate  value of its  liabilities  and its issued share
capital and share premium (additional paid-in capital) accounts. Group's ability
to pay  dividends  and  its  operating  expenses  is  partially  dependent  upon
dividends  from  its  subsidiaries.   The  payment  of  dividends  by  insurance
subsidiaries  is limited  under  Bermuda  law as well as the laws of the various
U.S. states in which Group's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are licensed
to transact  business.  The  limitations are generally based upon net income and
compliance with applicable policyholders' surplus or minimum solvency margin and
liquidity  ratio  requirements  as determined  in  accordance  with the relevant
statutory accounting practices. As Holdings has outstanding debt obligations, it
is dependent  upon dividends and other  permissible  payments from Everest Re to
enable  it to  meet  its  debt  and  operating  expense  obligations  and to pay
dividends to Group.

The payment of  dividends  to  Holdings by Everest Re is subject to  limitations
imposed by Delaware law. Generally, Everest Re may only pay dividends out of its
statutory  earned  surplus,  which was $897.5  million at December 31, 2000, and
only  after  it has  given  10  days  prior  notice  to the  Delaware  Insurance
Commissioner.  During this 10-day period,  the Commissioner may, by order, limit
or disallow  the payment of ordinary  dividends  if the  Commissioner  finds the
insurer to be  presently or  potentially  in financial  distress.  Further,  the
maximum  amount of dividends  that may be paid without the prior approval of the
Delaware Insurance Commissioner in any twelve month period is the greater of (1)
10% of an insurer's  statutory  surplus as of the end of the prior calendar year
or (2) the insurer's statutory net income, not including realized capital gains,
for the prior calendar year. Under this definition, the maximum amount that will
be  available  for the  payment  of  dividends  by  Everest  Re in 2001  without
triggering  the  requirement  for prior  approval of regulatory  authorities  in
connection with a dividend is $165.1  million,  of which $100.0 million was paid
in January 2001.

Under Bermuda law, Bermuda Re is unable to declare or pay a dividend if it fails
to meet its minimum  solvency  margin or minimum  liquidity  ratio,  or if after
payment of the dividend, it fails to meet its minimum solvency margin or minimum
liquidity ratio. As a long-term insurer, Bermuda Re is also unable to declare or
pay a dividend to anyone who is not a policyholder  unless, after payment of the
dividend,  the value of the assets in its long-term  business fund, as certified
by its approved  actuary,  exceeds its liabilities for long-term  business by at
least the  $250,000  minimum  solvency  margin.  Prior  approval  of the Bermuda


Minister of Finance is required if Bermuda Re's dividend  payments  would reduce
its prior year-end total statutory capital by 15.0% or more.

INSURANCE  REGULATION.  U.S. domestic property and casualty insurers,  including
reinsurers,  are subject to  regulation  by their state of domicile and by those
states in which they are  licensed.  The  regulation  of reinsurers is typically
related to the  reinsurer's  financial  condition,  investments,  management and
operation.  The rates and policy terms of reinsurance  agreements  generally are
not subject to direct regulation by any governmental authority.

The  operations  of Everest Re's current and former  foreign  branch  offices in
Canada, Singapore, Hong Kong and the United Kingdom are subject to regulation by
the insurance regulatory  officials of those jurisdictions.  Management believes
that the Company is in material  compliance with applicable laws and regulations
pertaining to its business and operations.

Bermuda Re is not admitted to do business as an insurer in any  jurisdiction  in
the U.S. Bermuda Re conducts its insurance business from its offices in Bermuda.
In Bermuda,  Bermuda Re is regulated by the  Insurance Act 1978 (as amended) and
related  regulations  (the "Act").  The Act  establishes  solvency and liquidity
standards,  auditing and reporting  requirements  and subjects Bermuda Re to the
supervision,  investigation and intervention  powers of the Minister of Finance.
Under the Act,  Bermuda Re, as a Class 4 insurer,  is required to maintain  $100
million  in  statutory  capital  and  surplus,  to have an  independent  auditor
approved by the  Minister of Finance  conduct an annual  audit and report on its
statutory  financial  statements  and  filings,  and to have an  appointed  loss
reserve  specialist (also approved by the Minister of Finance) review and report
on its loss reserves annually.

Bermuda  Re is also  registered  under  the Act as a  long-term  insurer  and is
thereby  authorized to write life and annuity business.  As a long-term insurer,
Bermuda Re is  required to maintain a long-term  business  fund,  to  separately
account for this business and to have an approved  actuary prepare a certificate
concerning its long-term business assets and liabilities to be filed annually.

Everest Canada, Everest Indemnity,  Everest National,  SSIC and Mt. McKinley are
subject to regulation similar to the U.S.  regulation  applicable to Everest Re.
In addition,  Everest National and SSIC must comply with substantial  regulatory
requirements  in each  state  where  they  conduct  business.  These  additional
requirements include, but are not limited to, rate and policy form requirements,
requirements  with regard to licensing,  agent  appointments,  participation  in
residual markets and claims handling procedures. These regulations are primarily
designed for the protection of policyholders.

LICENSES.  Everest  Re  is a  licensed  property  and  casualty  insurer  and/or
reinsurer in all states  (except  Nevada and Wyoming),  the District of Columbia
and Puerto Rico. In New  Hampshire  and Puerto Rico,  Everest Re is licensed for
reinsurance only. Such licensing enables U.S. domestic ceding company clients to
take credit for reinsurance ceded to Everest Re.

Everest Re is licensed as a property  and casualty  reinsurer  in Canada.  It is
also  authorized  to conduct  reinsurance  business  in the United  Kingdom  and
Singapore.  Everest Re can also write  reinsurance  in other foreign  countries.
Because  some  jurisdictions  require a reinsurer  to register in order to be an
acceptable  market for local  insurers,  Everest Re is  registered  as a foreign
insurer  and/or reinsurer  in  the  following  countries:   Argentina,  Bolivia,
Chile,  Colombia,   Ecuador,    Guatemala,  Mexico,  Peru,  Venezuela  and   the
Philippines.  Everest  National  is  licensed  in 42 states and the  District of


Columbia.  Everest  Indemnity  is licensed in Delaware  and is eligible to write
insurance  on a surplus  lines basis in 41 states,  the District of Columbia and
Puerto Rico. SSIC is licensed in Georgia.  Everest Canada is federally  licensed
under  the  Insurance  Companies  Act of Canada  and  licensed  in all  Canadian
provinces and territories.  Mt. McKinley is licensed in Delaware and California.
Bermuda  Re is  registered  as a Class 4  insurer  and a  long-term  insurer  in
Bermuda.

PERIODIC EXAMINATIONS. Everest Re, Everest National, Everest Indemnity, SSIC and
Mt.  McKinley are subject to periodic  financial  examination  (usually  every 3
years) of their affairs by the insurance departments of the states in which they
are  licensed,  authorized or  accredited.  Everest  Re's,  Everest  National's,
Everest  Indemnity's  and Mt.  McKinley's  last  examination  reports were as of
December 31, 1997. None of these reports contained any material recommendations.
SSIC's last  examination  report was as of December  31,  1997.  The Company has
complied with, or is implementing procedures to comply with, the recommendations
noted therein. In addition, U.S. insurance companies are subject to examinations
by the various state insurance  departments  where they are licensed  concerning
compliance with applicable conduct of business regulations.

NAIC RISK-BASED CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS. The U.S. National Association of Insurance
Commissioners ("NAIC") has instituted a formula to measure the amount of capital
appropriate for a property and casualty insurance company to support its overall
business operations in light of its size and risk profile.  The major categories
of a company's risk profile are its asset risk,  credit risk,  and  underwriting
risk. The standards are an effort by the NAIC to prevent  insolvencies,  to ward
off other  financial  difficulties  of  insurance  companies,  and to  establish
uniform regulatory standards among state insurance departments.

Under the approved  formula,  a company's  statutory  surplus is compared to its
risk  based  capital  ("RBC").  If this ratio is above a minimum  threshold,  no
action is necessary.  Below this  threshold  are four distinct  action levels at
which a regulator  can intervene  with  increasing  degrees of authority  over a
domestic  insurer  as the  ratio  of  surplus  to  RBC  decreases.  The  mildest
intervention  requires  the company to submit a plan of  appropriate  corrective
actions.  The most severe  action  requires the company to be  rehabilitated  or
liquidated.

Based upon Everest Re's,  Everest  National's,  Everest  Indemnity's  and SSIC's
financial positions at December 31, 2000, Everest Re, Everest National,  Everest
Indemnity  and SSIC exceed the minimum  thresholds.  Since Mt.  McKinley  ceased
writing new and renewal insurance in 1985, its domiciliary regulator,  Delaware,
has  exempted  Mt.  McKinley  from  complying  with  RBC  requirements.  Various
proposals  to change the RBC  formula  arise from time to time.  The  Company is
unable to predict  whether any such proposal will be adopted,  the form in which
any such proposals  would be adopted or the effect,  if any, the adoption of any
such proposal or change in the RBC calculations would have on the Company.

CODIFICATION  OF  STATUTORY  ACCOUNTING  PRINCIPLES.  The NAIC has  published  a
codification of statutory accounting  principles,  which has been adopted by the
states  of  domicile  of the  Company's  U.S.  operating  subsidiaries  with  an
effective  date of January 1, 2001. On January 1, 2001,  significant  changes to
the  statutory-basis  of accounting became  effective.  The cumulative effect of
these  changes will be recorded as a direct  adjustment  to  statutory  surplus.
Management  has not quantified  the effects of  codification  as of December 31,
2000, but believes that the impact will immaterially increase the Company's U.S.
operating subsidiaries' statutory surplus.


U.S. FINANCIAL SERVICES  MODERNIZATION REFORM. In 1999, U.S. federal legislation
was  passed   permitting  the   establishment  of  financial  holding  companies
authorized to conduct banking, insurance and securities businesses. The same act
introduced new  restrictions on affiliate  transactions,  privacy  standards and
other  measures to avoid adverse  consequences  associated  with  permitting the
affiliations  of banks,  insurance  companies and securities  firms.  While this
legislation has prompted extensive  discussions among state insurance regulators
regarding  the  need  for  some  changes  in  state   regulation   and  prompted
commentators  to opine  that this  legislation  will lead to  consolidation  and
efficiencies in the financial  services arena,  the Company is unable to predict
the impact of this new  legislation on insurers and  reinsurers  generally or on
the Company in particular.

LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY PROPOSALS. Various regulatory and legislative changes
have from time to time been proposed that could affect  reinsurers and insurers.
Among  the  proposals  that  have  in the  past  been  or are at  present  being
considered are the possible  introduction of U.S. federal regulation in addition
to, or in lieu of, the current  system of U.S.  state  regulation  of  insurers,
product   liability  and  tort  reform,   government   involvement  in  insuring
catastrophes, limitations on the ability of insurance carriers to effect premium
rate increases or to cancel or not renew  existing  policies,  modifications  to
investment limitations,  creation of interstate compacts for multi-state insurer
receivership proceedings or multi-state insurance regulation and the elimination
of tax benefits in connection with certain reinsurance  operations.  The Company
is unable to predict whether any of these proposals will be adopted, the form in
which any such proposals would be adopted,  or the impact, if any, such adoption
would have on the Company.

TAX MATTERS.  The  following  summary of the taxation of the Company is based on
current  law.  There  can  be  no  assurances  that  legislative,  judicial,  or
administrative changes will not be enacted that materially affect this summary.

BERMUDA.  Under  current  Bermuda law, no income,  withholding  or capital gains
taxes are imposed upon Group and its Bermuda subsidiaries. Group and its Bermuda
subsidiaries  have  received  an  undertaking  from the  Minister  of Finance in
Bermuda  that,  in the event of any taxes being  imposed,  Group and its Bermuda
subsidiaries will be exempt from taxation in Bermuda until March 2016.

BARBADOS.  Group, a Bermuda  company with its principal  office in Barbados,  is
registered as an external  company under the Companies Act, Cap. 308 of Barbados
and  is  licensed  as an  international  business  company  under  the  Barbados
International  Business Companies Act, 1991-24. As a result, Group is subject to
a preferred  rate of  corporation  tax on profits  and gains in Barbados  and is
exempt from withholding tax on dividends, interest, royalties,  management fees,
fees or other  income  paid or deemed  paid to a person who is not  resident  in
Barbados or who, if so resident, carries on an international business. No tax is
imposed on capital gains.

UNITED STATES.  Group's U.S.  subsidiaries carry on business in, and are subject
to taxation in the United States.  Non-U.S.  branches of U.S.  subsidiaries  are
subject to local taxation in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Should the
U.S. subsidiaries  distribute current or accumulated earnings and profits in the
form of  dividends  or  otherwise  to Group,  the  Company  would be  subject to
withholding  taxes.  Group and its Bermuda  subsidiaries  believe that they have
operated and will continue to operate  their  business in a manner that will not
cause them to generate income treated as effectively  connected with the conduct


of a trade or business within the United States.  On this basis,  Group does not
expect  that it and  its  Bermuda  subsidiaries  will be  required  to pay  U.S.
corporate income taxes other than withholding taxes on certain investment income
and premium  excise  taxes.  If Group or Bermuda Re were subject to U.S.  income
tax,  there  could be a  material  adverse  effect  on the  Company's  financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
Everest Re's corporate offices are located in approximately  112,000 square feet
of leased office space in Liberty  Corner,  New Jersey.  Bermuda Re's  corporate
offices are located in  approximately  3,600 total square feet of leased  office
space in Hamilton,  Bermuda. The Company's other eleven locations occupy a total
of  approximately  69,500  square  feet,  all of which  are  leased.  Management
believes that the  above-described  office space is adequate for its current and
anticipated needs.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
The Company is involved  from time to time in ordinary  routine  litigation  and
arbitration proceedings incidental to its business. The Company does not believe
that there are any other material  pending legal  proceedings to which it or any
of its subsidiaries or their properties are subject.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
None.

PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

MARKET INFORMATION
From October 3, 1995 through February 23, 2000, the common stock of Holdings was
traded on the New York Stock  Exchange under the symbol "RE". As a result of the
restructuring,  the  common  shares of Group  commenced  trading on the New York
Stock Exchange on February 24, 2000 under the same symbol,  "RE". Quarterly high
and low market  prices of the  Company's  common shares in 2000 and 1999 were as
follows:



NUMBER OF HOLDERS OF COMMON SHARES
The number of record  holders of common  shares as of March 1, 2001 was 80. That
number  excludes the  beneficial  owners of shares held in "street" name or held
through participants in depositories, such as The Depository Trust Company.


DIVIDEND HISTORY AND RESTRICTIONS
In 1995,  the Board of Directors of Holdings  established  a policy of declaring
regular  quarterly  cash  dividends.  The first  dividend  was $0.03 per  share,
declared and paid in the fourth quarter of 1995.  The Company  declared and paid
its regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share for each quarter of 1996,
$0.04 per share for each  quarter of 1997,  $0.05 per share for each  quarter of
1998 and $0.06 per share for each  quarter of 1999 and 2000.  A committee of the
Company's Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.07 per share,  payable on
or before March 23, 2001 to shareholders of record on March 1, 2001.

The declaration and payment of future dividends,  if any, by the Company will be
at the  discretion  of the Board of Directors and will depend upon many factors,
including the Company's earnings, financial condition, business needs and growth
objectives,   capital  and  surplus  requirements  of  operating   subsidiaries,
regulatory  restrictions,  rating agency considerations and other factors. As an
insurance holding company,  the Company is partially  dependent on dividends and
other  permitted  payments from its  subsidiaries  to pay cash  dividends to its
stockholders.  The payment of  dividends to Group by Holdings and to Holdings by
Everest Re will be subject to Delaware  regulatory  restrictions and the payment
of  dividends  to Group by  Bermuda  Re will be  subject  to  Bermuda  insurance
regulatory  restrictions.  See "Regulatory Matters -- Dividends" and Note 11A of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

RECENT  SALES OF  UNREGISTERED  SECURITIES
Information  required by Item 701 of Regulation S-K:

(a) On October 2, 2000, 924 common shares of the Company and on January 2, 2001,
624 common shares of the Company were distributed.

(b) The  securities   were  distributed  to  the  Company's   four  non-employee
Directors.

(c) The securities were issued as compensation to the non-employee Directors for
services rendered to the Company.

(d) Exemption  from  registration  was claimed  pursuant to  Section 4(2) of the
Securities Act of 1933. There was no public offering and the participants in the
transactions were the Company and its non-employee Directors.

(e) Not applicable.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated GAAP financial data of the Company as of and
for the years ended December 31, 2000,  1999,  1998,  1997 and 1996 were derived
from the consolidated financial statements of the Company, which were audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP.  The  following  financial  data  should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes.



- ------------
  (1)   After-tax  operating  income,  before  after-tax  net  realized  capital
        gains or losses,  was $185.9 million (or $4.05 per basic share and $4.01
        per  diluted  share),  $169.0  million (or $3.48 per basic and $3.47 per
        diluted share), $165.7 million (or $3.29 per basic and $3.27 per diluted
        share),  $144.6 million (or $2.86 per basic and $2.85 per diluted share)
        and $108.3  million (or $2.14 per basic and diluted share) for the years
        ended December 31, 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
  (2)   Catastrophe losses are net of reinsurance. A catastrophe is defined, for
        purposes of the Selected  Consolidated  Financial Data, as an event that
        causes a pre-tax  loss on property exposures  before  reinsurance  of at
        least $5.0 million and has an event date of January 1, 1988 or later.
  (3)   Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.
  (4)   Based on weighted average basic shares outstanding of 45.9 million, 48.5
        million,  50.4  million,  50.5 million and 50.6 million for 2000,  1999,
        1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
  (5)   Based on weighted  average  diluted shares  outstanding of 46.4 million,
        48.7  million,  50.7  million,  50.8  million and 50.7 million for 2000,
        1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
  (6)   Loss ratio is the GAAP losses and LAE incurred as a  percentage  of GAAP
        net premiums earned. Underwriting expense ratio is the GAAP commissions,
        borkerage, taxes, fees and general expenses as a percentage of GAAP  net
        premiums earned.  Combined  ratio  is  the  sum  of  the  loss ratio and
        underwriting expense ratio.
  (7)   Excluding  net unrealized  appreciation  (depreciation)  of investments,
        shareholder's  equity was $1,502.1 million,  $1,337.2 million,  $1,281.6
        million, $1,147.1  million and $1,008.3 million as of December 31, 2000,
        1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
  (8)   Based on 46.0 million  shares  outstanding  for December 31, 2000,  46.5
        million  shares  outstanding  for December 31, 1999, 50.0 million shares
        outstanding  for  December 31, 1998 and 50.5 million shares  outstanding
        for December 31, 1997 and 1996.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

The  following is a discussion of Everest Re Group,  Ltd. and its  subsidiaries'
(the "Company") results of operations and financial  condition.  This discussion
and  analysis  should be read in  conjunction  with the  consolidated  financial
statements and the notes thereto presented under ITEM 8.

RESTRUCTURING
Everest Re Group, Ltd. ("Group"), a Bermuda company with its principal executive
office in Barbados,  was  established  in 1999 as a  wholly-owned  subsidiary of
Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc.  ("Holdings").  On February  24,  2000,  a
corporate  restructuring  was completed and Group became the new parent  holding
company of Holdings. Holders of shares of common stock of Holdings automatically
became  holders  of the same  number  of common  shares  of Group.  Prior to the
restructuring,  Group had no significant  assets or  capitalization  and had not
engaged in any business or prior  activities  other than in connection  with the
restructuring. See ITEM 1 - "Business - The Company" for a further discussion.

ACQUISITIONS
On September 19, 2000,  Holdings  completed the acquisition of all of the issued
and outstanding  capital stock of Gibraltar Casualty Company  ("Gibraltar") from
The  Prudential  Insurance  Company  of  America  ("The  Prudential")  for $51.8
million,  which  approximated  book  value.  As a  result  of  the  acquisition,
Gibraltar  became  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary  of  Holdings  and,  immediately
following  the  acquisition,  its name was  changed  to Mt.  McKinley  Insurance
Company ("Mt.  McKinley").  In connection with the acquisition of Mt.  McKinley,
which has significant exposure to asbestos and environmental claims,  Prudential
Property  and  Casualty  Insurance  Company  ("Prupac"),  a  subsidiary  of  The
Prudential,  provided  reinsurance to Mt. McKinley covering 80% ($160.0 million)
of the  first  $200.0  million  of any  adverse  development  of Mt.  McKinley's
reserves  as of  September  19,  2000  and The  Prudential  guaranteed  Prupac's
obligation to Mt. McKinley.

Mt. McKinley,  a run-off property and casualty insurer in the United States, has
had a long  relationship  with  Holdings and its  principal  operating  company,
Everest  Reinsurance  Company ("Everest Re"). Mt. McKinley was formed in 1978 by
Everest Re and wrote  insurance  until 1985,  when it was placed in run-off.  In
1991, Mt. McKinley became a subsidiary of The Prudential. Mt. McKinley is also a
reinsurer  of Everest Re.  Under a series of  transactions  dating to 1986,  Mt.
McKinley reinsured several  components of Everest Re's business.  In particular,
Mt. McKinley provided stop-loss reinsurance  protection,  in connection with the
Company's  October 5, 1995 IPO, for any adverse loss development on Everest Re's
June 30, 1995 (December 31, 1994 for catastrophe  losses) reserves,  with $375.0
million in limits,  of which $89.4  million  remains  available  (the "Stop Loss
Agreement"). The Stop Loss Agreement and other reinsurance contracts between Mt.
McKinley and Everest Re remain in effect  following  the  acquisition.  However,
these contracts have become  transactions  with  affiliates,  with the financial
impact eliminated in consolidation.

On December  20,  2000,  Everest  Reinsurance  (Bermuda),  Ltd.  ("Bermuda  Re")
completed the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding  capital stock of
AFC Re Ltd. ("AFC Re"), a  Bermuda-based  annuity and life  reinsurer,  from AFC
Holdings Ltd for $16.6 million, which approximated book value. Subsequent to the
acquisition, AFC Re's reinsurance obligations were assumed by Bermuda Re.

On January 18,  2000,  Everest Re  purchased  all of the issued and  outstanding
shares  of  Cra-Co   Holdings  Ltd.,  the  Georgia  holding  company  parent  of
Southeastern  Security  Insurance  Company  ("SSIC")  for $10.1  million,  which
approximated  book value.  SSIC is a Georgia  property  and  casualty  insurance
company, whose primary line of business is non-standard auto coverage.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
INDUSTRY CONDITIONS.  Since late 1999, market conditions,  including unfavorable
industry-wide  results of operations,  have led to modest premium rate increases
as well as  modest  improvements  in  contract  terms  in a  number  of lines of
reinsurance  and insurance.  These changes  reflect a reversal of the trend from
1987 through  1999 toward  increasingly  competitive  global  market  conditions
across most lines of business as reflected by decreasing  prices and  broadening
contract terms.  The earlier trend resulted from a number of factors,  including
the  emergence of  significant  reinsurance  capacity in Bermuda,  a rejuvenated
Lloyd's market and  consolidation  and increased capital levels in the insurance
industry.  Many of these same factors continue to operate. As a result, although
the Company is encouraged by the recent improvements, the Company cannot predict
with any reasonable certainty whether and to what extent these improvements will
persist.

SEGMENT INFORMATION
During the quarter ended December 31, 2000, the Company's  management  realigned
its operating  segments to better reflect the way that  management  monitors and
evaluates  the  Company's  financial  performance.  The Company has restated all
information  for  prior  years to  conform  to the new  segment  structure.  The
Company, through its subsidiaries,  operates in five segments: U.S. Reinsurance,
U.S.  Insurance,  Specialty  Underwriting,  International and Bermuda.  The U.S.
Reinsurance  operation writes property and casualty reinsurance on both a treaty
and  facultative  basis  through  reinsurance  brokers as well as directly  with
ceding companies within the United States. The U.S.  Insurance  operation writes
property and casualty  insurance  primarily through general agent  relationships
and surplus lines brokers within the United States.  The Specialty  Underwriting
operation  writes  accident  and health  ("A&H"),  marine,  aviation  and surety
business  within the United  States and worldwide  through  brokers and directly
with ceding companies.  The International operation writes property and casualty
reinsurance  through the  Company's  branches in Belgium,  London,  Canada,  and
Singapore,  in addition to foreign "home-office" business. The Bermuda operation
writes  property,  casualty,  life and  annuity  business  through  brokers  and
directly with ceding companies.

These  segments  are  managed in a  carefully  coordinated  fashion  with strong
elements of central control, including with respect to capital,  investments and
support operations. As a result, management monitors and evaluates the financial
performance  of  these   operating   segments   principally   based  upon  their
underwriting results.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
PREMIUMS.  Gross premiums  written  increased 21.4% to $1,385.6  million in 2000
from $1,141.8  million in 1999 as the Company took advantage of selected  growth
opportunities, while continuing to maintain a disciplined underwriting approach.
Premium  growth areas included a 255.9%  ($180.1  million)  increase in the U.S.
Insurance operation, principally attributable to growth in worker's compensation
insurance,  an 18.5%  ($49.7  million)  increase in the  Specialty  Underwriting
operation,  attributable  to  growth in A&H  writings,  a 3.6%  ($11.2  million)
increase in the International operation,  mainly attributable to growth in North
and South America and the markets  served from the  Company's  London branch and
$11.6 million of writings through the Bermuda operation which produced its first
business  during the quarter  ended  December 31,  2000.  These  increases  were
partially  offset by a 1.8%  ($8.9  million)  decrease  in the U.S.  Reinsurance
operation  where  growth  across  property  and  casualty  lines  was  offset by
reductions  in  non-standard  auto  writings.  The Company  continued to decline
business that did not meet its objectives regarding underwriting profitability.

Ceded  premiums  increased to $166.7 million in 2000 from $46.3 million in 1999.
This increase was principally attributable to the higher utilization of contract
specific  cessions  in the  U.S.  Insurance  and  U.S.  Reinsurance  operations,
including a new 100% ceded U.S.  Longshore and Harbor Worker's  Compensation Act
and state act workers'  compensation  program in the U.S.  Insurance  operation,
which  contributed  $37.0  million  to the  increase.  In  addition,  adjustment
premiums of $35.2  million were ceded in 2000 relating to losses ceded under the
1999 accident year aggregate  excess of loss element of the Company's  corporate
retrocessional program.

Net  premiums  written  increased  by 11.3% to  $1,218.9  million  in 2000  from
$1,095.6  million in 1999.  This  increase was  consistent  with the increase in
gross premiums written and the increase in ceded premiums.


PREMIUM  REVENUES.  Net premiums earned increased by 9.6% to $1,174.2 million in
2000 from $1,071.5  million in 1999.  Contributing  to this increase was a 75.8%
($43.8  million)  increase  in the  U.S.  Insurance  operation,  a 14.1%  ($37.3
million)  increase  in the  Specialty  Underwriting  operation,  a  3.3%  ($15.1
million)  increase  in the U.S.  Reinsurance  operation and $11.6 million of net
premiums  earned from the  Bermuda  operation  as the  operation  began  writing
business  during the quarter  ended  December 31,  2000.  These  increases  were
partially  offset  by a  1.7%  ($5.0  million)  decrease  in  the  International
operation.  All of these changes  reflect period to period  variability in gross
written and ceded premiums,  and business mix, together with normal  variability
in earnings patterns.  Business mix changes occur not only as the Company shifts
emphasis between products, lines of business,  distribution channels and markets
but also as individual contracts renew or non-renew,  almost always with changes
in coverage,  structure,  prices and/or terms, and as new contracts are accepted
with coverages, structures, prices and/or terms different from those of expiring
contracts.   As  premium   reporting  and  earnings  and  loss  and   commission
characteristics  derive  from  the  provisions  of  individual  contracts,   the
continuous turnover of individual contracts,  arising from both strategic shifts
and day to day  underwriting,  can and  does  introduce  appreciable  background
variability in various underwriting line items.

EXPENSES.  Incurred loss and loss adjustment expenses ("LAE") increased by 14.7%
to $884.6  million in 2000 from $771.6 million in 1999. The increase in incurred
losses and LAE was  principally  attributable  to the  increase in net  premiums
written  together with modest  strengthening  of prior period reserves in select
areas, including on a multi-year reinsurance treaty where such losses within the
current experience band were accompanied by  correspondingly  lower commissions.
The increase was partially offset by losses ceded under the Company's  corporate
retrocessional  program  and  also  reflects  changes  in the  Company's  mix of
business.  Incurred losses and LAE include catastrophe losses, which reflect the
impact of both current period events and favorable and  unfavorable  development
on prior period events and are net of reinsurance.  Catastrophe  losses,  net of
contract   specific   cessions   but  before   cessions   under  the   corporate
retrocessional program in 2000, were $13.9 million, mainly reflecting modest net
adverse  development on 1999  catastrophe  events,  compared to $45.9 million in
1999.  Net  incurred  losses and LAE in 2000  reflected  ceded losses and LAE of
$161.6  million,  including  $70.0  million  ceded under the 1999  accident year
aggregate  excess of loss  component of the Company's  corporate  retrocessional
program.  Ceded losses and LAE in 1999 were $7.4 million with no cessions  under
the accident year aggregate excess of loss component of the Company's  corporate
retrocessional program.

Contributing to the increase in incurred losses and LAE in 2000 from 1999 were a
71.1%  ($29.2  million)  increase in the U.S.  Insurance  operation  principally
reflecting  increased  premium volume,  a 37.0% ($68.7 million)  increase in the
Specialty Underwriting  operation principally  attributable to increased premium
volume in A&H business  together  with modest  reserve  strengthening  for prior
period marine,  aviation and surety exposures, a 3.3% ($7.5 million) increase in
the  International  operation,  which included modest reserve  strengthening for
exposures  produced  through  its London  and  Canadian  branches,  a 0.4% ($1.2
million) increase in the U.S.  Reinsurance  operation and $6.4 million of losses
from the  Bermuda  operation  as the  Company  began  writing  business  in this
operation  during the quarter ended December 31, 2000.  Incurred  losses and LAE
for each operation were also impacted by variability  relating to changes in the
level of premium volume and mix of business by class and type.

The Company's loss and LAE ratio ("loss ratio"), which is calculated by dividing
incurred losses and LAE by premiums earned,  increased by 3.3 percentage  points


to 75.3% in 2000 from  72.0% in 1999  reflecting  the  incurred  losses  and LAE
discussed  above.  The  following  table  shows the loss  ratios for each of the
Company's  operating  segments  for  2000 and  1999.  The  loss  ratios  for all
operations were impacted by the factors noted above.


Underwriting  expenses  decreased by 3.8% to $324.1  million in 2000 from $337.0
million  in 1999.  Commission,  brokerage,  taxes  and fees  decreased  by $13.5
million,  principally  reflecting  the  Company's  reassessment  of the expected
losses on the  multi-year  reinsurance  treaty  noted  above that led to a $33.8
million  decrease in contingent  commissions  with a  corresponding  increase to
losses,  partially  offset by increases in premiums  written and also reflecting
changes in the mix of business.  Other  underwriting  expenses increased by $0.6
million.  Contributing to the underwriting  expense decrease were a 26.5% ($34.5
million) decrease in the U.S. Reinsurance  operation,  which included the impact
of the contingent  commission  adjustment  noted above and a 2.0% ($1.9 million)
decrease in the International  operation.  These decreases were partially offset
by $5.9 million of expenses from the Bermuda operation,  principally  reflecting
Federal  excise tax paid on a loss  portfolio  transfer with an  affiliate,  and
52.8% ($12.8  million) and 9.1% ($7.3 million)  increases in the U.S.  Insurance
operation and the Specialty Underwriting  operation,  respectively,  principally
related to production  volume  increases.  Except as noted, the changes for each
operation's  expenses  principally  resulted from changes in commission expenses
related to changes in premium  volume and business mix by class and type and, in
some  cases,  the  underwriting  performance  of the  underlying  business.  The
Company's expense ratio, which is calculated by dividing  underwriting  expenses
by premiums earned, decreased by 3.9 percentage points to 27.6% in 2000 compared
to 31.5% in 1999.

The Company's  combined ratio,  which is the sum of the loss and expense ratios,
decreased by 0.6 percentage points to 102.9% in 2000 compared to 103.5% in 1999.
The  following  table  shows  the  combined  ratios  for  each of the  Company's
operating  segments for 2000 and 1999.  The combined  ratios for all  operations
were impacted by the loss and expense ratio variability noted above.

                  OPERATING SEGMENT COMBINED RATIOS
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
       SEGMENT                        2000                1999
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. Reinsurance                      87.8%               97.9%
U.S. Insurance                       105.8%              113.1%
Specialty Underwriting               113.1%              100.4%
International                        115.4%              111.5%
Bermuda                              106.0%                 N/A

Interest  expense was $39.4  million for 2000  compared to $1.5 million in 1999.
Interest expense for 2000 reflects $30.9 million relating to Holdings'  issuance


of senior  notes and $8.5  million  relating to  Holdings'  borrowing  under its
revolving  credit  facility.  Interest  expense for 1999  reflects  $1.5 million
relating to Holdings' borrowing under its credit facility.

Other income was $3.3 million in 2000  compared to other expense of $1.0 million
in 1999. Significant contributors to other income for 2000 were foreign exchange
gains as well as financing fees from SSIC,  offset by net derivative  income and
fair value  adjustments  and expenses  relating to Holdings'  issuance of senior
notes. Other expense for 1999 principally  included foreign exchange losses. The
foreign  exchange gains and losses are  attributable  to fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates.

INVESTMENTS.  Net investment income increased by 19.2% to $301.5 million in 2000
from $253.0 million in 1999,  principally reflecting the effect of investing the
$90.0 million of cash flow from operations in 2000, the investment of the $450.0
million in proceeds from  Holdings'  issuance of senior notes and the investment
of the approximately  $554.5 million of additional net invested assets resulting
from the  acquisitions  of Mt.  McKinley and AFC Re. The following table shows a
comparison  of  various  investment  yields as of  December  31,  2000 and 1999,
respectively, and for the periods then ended.


Net  realized  capital  gains  were $0.8  million in 2000,  reflecting  realized
capital gains on the Company's investments of $30.9 million, partially offset by
$30.1 million of realized capital losses, compared to realized capital losses of
$16.8  million  in 1999.  The net  realized  capital  losses  in 1999  reflected
realized  capital losses of $33.9 million,  which were partially offset by $17.1
million of realized  capital gains.  The realized capital gains in 2000 and 1999
arose  mainly from  activity in the  Company's  equity  portfolio.  The realized
capital  losses in 2000 and 1999 arose  mainly from  activity  in the  Company's
fixed maturity portfolios.

INCOME TAXES. The Company recognized income tax expense of $45.4 million in 2000
compared to $38.5  million in 1999,  with the increase  mainly  attributable  to
decreased realized capital losses.

NET INCOME.  Net income was $186.4 million in 2000 compared to $158.1 million in
1999.  This increase  generally  reflects the decreases in net realized  capital
losses,   together  with  the  improved  underwriting  and  investment  results,
partially offset by increased interest and income tax expense.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
PREMIUMS. Gross premiums written increased 9.2% to $1,141.8 million in 1999 from
$1,045.9  million in 1998 as the  Company  took  advantage  of  selected  growth
opportunities, while continuing to maintain a disciplined underwriting approach.
Contributing to this premium increase was a 77.8% ($117.5  million)  increase in


the  Specialty  Underwriting  operation,  mainly  attributable  to growth in A&H
business where the Company's  relatively recent entry to this line allowed it to
selectively  grow from a relatively  small base.  This  increase  was  partially
offset by a 10.5% ($8.3 million)  decrease in the U.S.  Insurance  operation,  a
3.8% ($12.3 million)  decrease in the  International  operation and a 0.2% ($1.0
million) decrease in the U.S. Reinsurance operation. These decreases principally
reflected the highly  competitive  market  conditions.  The Company continued to
decline  business  that  did not  meet  its  objectives  regarding  underwriting
profitability.

Ceded  premiums  increased to $46.3  million in 1999 from $29.3 million in 1998.
Ceded premiums in 1998  reflected a $32.3 million  return premium  relating to a
restructuring of the Company's catastrophe retrocessional protection. Absent the
impact of this return  premium,  the Company would have had lower ceded premiums
in 1999 as a result of the impact of the  changes in the  Company's  catastrophe
retrocessional  protections,   partially  offset  by  increased  utilization  of
contract specific cessions, including common account protections.

Net premiums written increased by 7.8% to $1,095.6 million in 1999 from $1,016.6
million in 1998,  reflecting  the  growth in gross  premiums  written  and ceded
premiums.

PREMIUM  REVENUES.  Net premiums earned increased by 0.3% to $1,071.5 million in
1999 from  $1,068.0  million  in 1988  consistent  with the  growth in  premiums
written. Contributing to this increase was an 87.8% ($124.1 million) increase in
the Specialty  Underwriting  operation.  This increase was partially offset by a
14.6% ($49.8 million)  decrease in the International  operation,  a 12.2% ($63.2
million) decrease in the U.S. Reinsurance  operation and an 11.8% ($7.7 million)
decrease in the U.S. Insurance operation. All of these changes reflect period to
period  changes in net written  premiums and business mix,  together with normal
variability in earnings patterns.

EXPENSES.  Incurred  losses and LAE decreased by 0.9% to $771.6  million in 1999
from $778.4 million in 1998. Incurred losses and LAE include catastrophe losses,
which  reflect  the  impact of both  current  period  events and  favorable  and
unfavorable  development on prior period events and are net of reinsurance.  Net
catastrophe  losses for 1999 were $45.9  million  mainly  arising from  European
storms  ($19.5  million)  and from the Rouge Steel  Plant Fire ($13.0  million),
together with lesser losses related to Hurricane Floyd, the Turkish  Earthquakes
and the Oklahoma  Tornadoes  compared to net catastrophe losses of $30.6 million
for 1998. Net incurred losses and LAE for 1999 reflected ceded losses and LAE of
$7.4 million,  including  $7.2 million  ceded under the Stop Loss  Agreement for
1999 and a $60.8  million  reduction of the Company's  previous  cessions to the
Stop Loss Agreement  resulting from the resolution of a dispute with  Gibraltar,
compared to ceded  losses and LAE of $357.4  million in 1998,  including  $153.9
million ceded under the Stop Loss Agreement.

Contributing to the decrease in incurred losses and LAE in 1999 from 1998 were a
15.7% ($42.5 million) decrease in the International operation, which experienced
unusual  catastrophe losses in 1998 relating to hurricanes Georges and Mitch and
Canadian  ice storms,  a 14.0%  ($6.7  million)  decrease in the U.S.  Insurance
operation  and  an  11.0%  ($39.0  million)  decrease  in the  U.S.  Reinsurance
operation  despite  the  impacts  of the Rouge  Steel  Plant  Fire and  Oklahoma
tornados  in 1999.  These  decreases  were  partially  offset by a 78.1%  ($81.4
million)  increase  in  the  Specialty   Underwriting   operation,   principally
attributable  to the growth in A&H  business.  Incurred  losses and LAE for each
operation were also impacted by variability  relating to changes in the level of
premium volume and mix of business by class and type.


The Company's  loss ratio  decreased by 0.9  percentage  points to 72.0% in 1999
from 72.9% in 1998 reflecting the incurred losses and LAE discussed  above.  The
following  table  shows  the loss  ratios  for each of the  Company's  operating
segments for 1999 and 1998. The loss ratios for all operations  were impacted by
the factors noted above.


Underwriting  expenses  increased by 4.0% to $337.0  million in 1999 from $324.1
million  in 1998.  Commission,  brokerage,  taxes  and fees  increased  by $11.4
million  attributable  to  increases  in  written  premium  and  changes  in the
Company's business mix. Other  underwriting  expenses increased by $1.5 million,
primarily attributable to $2.8 million of non-recurring  reorganization expenses
in 1999, principally relating to the Company's restructuring to a Bermuda parent
holding company.  Contributing to these  underwriting  expense  increases were a
73.4% ($34.2  million)  increase in the Specialty  Underwriting  operation and a
2.7% ($0.6 million) increase in the U.S. Insurance operation. These underwriting
expense  increases were partially offset by a 12.4% ($18.5 million)  decrease in
the  U.S.  Reinsurance  operation  and a 5.8%  ($5.9  million)  decrease  in the
International   operation.  The  changes  for  each  operation's  expenses  were
principally the result of changes in commission  expenses relating to changes in
premium volume and business mix by class and type.  The Company's  expense ratio
increased by 1.2 percentage points to 31.5% in 1999 from 30.3% in 1998.

The Company's  combined ratio  increased by 0.3  percentage  points to 103.5% in
1999 compared to 103.2% in 1998. The following  table shows the combined  ratios
for each of the  Company's  operating  segments for 1999 and 1998.  The combined
ratios  for  all  operations  were  impacted  by  the  loss  and  expense  ratio
variability noted above.


Other loss for 1999 was $1.0 million compared to other income of $3.0 million in
1998.   Other  loss  and  income  for  the  respective  years  were  principally
attributable to the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

INVESTMENTS. Net investment income increased 3.3% to $253.0 million in 1999 from
$244.9  million in 1998,  principally  reflecting  the effect of  investing  the
$203.4  million of cash flow from  operating  activities in 1999.  The following
table shows a comparison  of various  investment  yields as of December 31, 1999
and 1998, respectively, and for the periods then ended.




Net  realized  capital  losses were $16.8  million in 1999  reflecting  realized
capital  losses  on the  Company's  investments  of  $33.9  million  which  were
partially  offset by $17.1 million of realized  capital  gains,  compared to net
realized capital losses of $0.8 million in 1998. The net realized capital losses
in 1998 reflected realized capital losses of $13.5 million, which were partially
offset by $12.7 million of realized  capital gains.  The realized capital losses
in 1999 arose mainly from activity in the Company's  taxable and tax-exempt U.S.
fixed  maturities  portfolios,  whereas the realized capital losses in 1998 were
attributable to activity in the Company's tax-exempt fixed maturities portfolio.
The realized  capital  gains in 1999 mainly arose from activity in the Company's
U.S.  equity  portfolio,  whereas  the  realized  capital  gains  in  1998  were
attributable  to a  combination  of the activity in the  Company's  taxable U.S.
fixed maturities  portfolio and U.S. equity portfolio.  The net realized capital
losses in 1999 generally reflect a specific  program,  which has been completed,
to realize  capital losses aimed at recovering  taxes on realized  capital gains
paid in prior  years,  with  corresponding  reinvestment  of proceeds at current
reinvestment  rates, and enhancing the Company's  long-term  after-tax portfolio
yield.

INCOME  TAXES.  The  Company  had  income tax  expense of $38.5  million in 1999
compared to $47.5 million in 1998,  with the decrease  resulting  primarily from
the increase in realized capital losses.

NET INCOME.  Net income was $158.1 million in 1999 compared to $165.2 million in
1998.  This decline mainly  reflects  increases in net capital losses.

FINANCIAL CONDITION
Cash  and  Invested  Assets.  Aggregate  invested  assets,  including  cash  and
short-term  investments,  were $5,493.0  million at December 31, 2000,  $4,139.2
million at December  31, 1999 and $4,325.8  million at December  31,  1998.  The
increase in cash and invested  assets from 1999 to 2000 resulted  primarily from
Holdings'  issuance of senior notes  totaling  $450.0  million,  the proceeds of
which have been invested, $349.7 million of new cash from the acquisition of Mt.
McKinley,  $204.8 million of new invested assets from the acquisition of AFC Re,
$176.0 million in credit facility  borrowings,  $158.0 million in net unrealized
appreciation  of the Company's  fixed maturity  investments and $90.0 million in
cash flows from  operations  generated in 2000.  These  increases were partially
offset by $26.6 million in net unrealized  depreciation of the Company's  equity
investments  and $16.4  million in share  repurchases.  The decrease in cash and
invested  assets from 1998 to 1999  resulted  primarily  from net  realized  and
unrealized  losses on  investments  of $318.9 million and $96.4 million in share
repurchases,  partially  offset by $203.4 million in cash flows from  operations
generated during the period and $59.0 million in credit facility borrowings.


LOSS AND LAE RESERVES
GENERAL.  Gross loss and LAE reserves  totaled  $3,786.2 million at December 31,
2000, $3,647.0 million at December 31, 1999 and $3,800.0 million at December 31,
1998. The increase in 2000 was primarily  attributable to the acquisition of Mt.
McKinley  together with normal  variability in claim  settlements  and increased
earned premiums.  The decrease in 1999 was primarily attributable to a reduction
in reserves for 1995 and prior periods as a result of a dispute  resolution with
Gibraltar together with normal variability in claims settlement and an unchanged
level of earned  premiums.  Reinsurance  receivables  totaled  $509.0 million at
December 31,  2000,  $742.5  million at December 31, 1999 and $982.0  million at
December 31, 1998,  with much of the changes  reflecting the  acquisition of Mt.
McKinley and the attendant elimination of inter-company receivables. At December
31, 2000,  $145.0 million,  or 28.5%, was receivable from Continental  Insurance
Company  ("Continental") and $70.0 million, or 13.8%, was receivable from London
Life and Casualty Reinsurance Corp. ("London Life"), which are partially secured
by funds held arrangements whereby the Company has retained the premium payments
due the  retrocessionaires,  recognized liabilities for such amounts and reduced
such  liabilities  as  payments  are due  from  the  retrocessionaire.  No other
retrocessionaire  accounted  for  more  than  $25.0  million  of  the  Company's
receivables.

The Company  maintains  reserves to cover its estimated  ultimate  liability for
losses and LAE with respect to reported and unreported claims.  Because reserves
are estimates of ultimate losses and LAE,  management  monitors reserve adequacy
over  time,  evaluating  new  information  as it  becomes  known  and  adjusting
reserves, as necessary. Management considers many factors when setting reserves,
including:  (1) current legal  interpretations  of coverage and  liability;  (2)
economic  conditions;  (3) internal  actuarial  methodologies  which analyze the
Company's  experience with similar cases,  information from ceding companies and
historical trends, such as reserving patterns, loss payments,  pending levels of
unpaid  claims  and  product  mix;  and (4) the  uncertainties  discussed  below
regarding reserve  requirements for asbestos and environmental  claims. Based on
these considerations,  management believes that adequate provision has been made
for the Company's loss and LAE reserves.  Actual losses and LAE ultimately  paid
may deviate, perhaps substantially,  from such reserves, impacting income in the
period in which the change is made.

ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL  EXPOSURES.  The Company's  asbestos claims typically
involve  liability or potential  liability  for bodily  injury from  exposure to
asbestos or liability for property  damage  resulting  from asbestos or asbestos
containing  materials.  The Company's  environmental  claims  typically  involve
potential   liability  for  the  mitigation  or  remediation  of   environmental
contamination  or bodily  injury or  property  damages  caused by the release of
hazardous  substances into the land, air or water. In addition to the previously
described  general  uncertainties  inherent in  estimating  reserves,  there are
significant  additional  uncertainties in estimating the amount of the Company's
potential losses from asbestos and environmental claims. Among the complications
impacting  the  estimation  of such losses are:  (1)  potentially  long  waiting
periods  between  exposure and  manifestation  of any bodily  injury or property
damage;  (2)  difficulty  in  identifying  sources of asbestos or  environmental
contamination;  (3)  difficulty  in properly  allocating  responsibility  and/or
liability for asbestos or environmental  damage;  (4) changes in underlying laws
and judicial  interpretation  of those laws;  (5)  potential  for an asbestos or
environmental  claim to  involve  many  insurance  providers  over  many  policy
periods;  (6) long reporting delays,  both from insureds to insurance  companies
and ceding companies to reinsurers;  (7) historical data concerning asbestos and
environmental losses, which is more limited than historical information on other
types  of  casualty  claims;   (8)  questions   concerning   interpretation  and
application of insurance and reinsurance coverage; and (9) uncertainty regarding


the number and identity of insureds  with  potential  asbestos or  environmental
exposure. Management believes that these factors continue to render reserves for
asbestos and  environmental  losses  significantly  less subject to  traditional
actuarial  methods  than are  reserves  on other  types of losses.  Given  these
uncertainties,  management  believes that no meaningful  range for such ultimate
losses can be established.  The Company establishes reserves to the extent that,
in the judgment of management,  the facts and prevailing law reflect an exposure
for the Company or its ceding company. Due to the uncertainties discussed above,
the ultimate  losses may vary  materially  from current loss  reserves and could
have a material  adverse  effect on the Company's  future  financial  condition,
results of operations and cash flows.

The  table  below  summarizes  reserves  and claim  activity  for  asbestos  and
environmental  claims, on both a gross and net of ceded  reinsurance  basis, for
the periods indicated:

- ----------
(1)      Net of $0.0 million in 2000, $0.0 million in 1999 and $138.5 million in
         1998 ceded under the incurred  loss  reimbursement  feature of the Stop
         Loss Agreement.
(2)      Net of $0.0 million in 2000, $118.8  million in 1999 and $39.7  million
         in 1998 ceded as paid losses under the Stop Loss Agreement.
(3)      Reported losses and paid losses for 2000  are net  of  ($311.3) million
         and $311.3 million, respectively, reflecting the  establishment  of Mt.
         McKinley's reserves at the acquisition date. Net paid losses, excluding
         the impact of the Mt. McKinley  acquisition  transaction,  were ($42.3)
         million.


The  gross  and net IBNR  reserves  for  asbestos  and  environmental  exposures
increased in 2000. The increase was mainly attributable to Holdings' acquisition
of Mt.  McKinley  in  September  of 2000.  The gross and net IBNR  reserves  for
asbestos and  environmental  exposures  decreased in 1999. The decrease resulted
primarily from management's belief that there had been no material change in the
ultimate asbestos and environmental  loss exposures.  As a result,  the reported
incurred  losses in 1999  were  offset  with  corresponding  reductions  in IBNR
reserves.  The  gross  and net IBNR  reserves  for  asbestos  and  environmental
exposures increased in 1998. During 1998, the Company reviewed all relevant data
in considering the estimate of ultimate  reserves for asbestos and environmental
exposures.  This  included  analysis  of  incurred  and paid  loss  development,
qualitative  assessments  of claims,  claimants,  judgements  and emerging trend
information.  Overall, these analytical activities concluded that the underlying
ultimate  exposures were greater than  previously  estimated,  principally  with
respect to continuing shifts in loss emergence and payment  patterns,  including
the unexpectedly  large impact of newly reported claims for  insureds/defendants
not previously expected to have significant exposures.

SHAREHOLDERS'  EQUITY. The Company's  shareholders' equity increased to $1,583.4
million as of December  31, 2000 from  $1,327.5  million as of December 31, 1999
principally reflecting an increase of $175.4 million in retained earnings and an
increase  of  $90.0  million  in net  unrealized  appreciation  of  investments,
partially  offset by $16.4 million in treasury  shares acquired during the year.
Shareholders'  equity decreased to $1,327.5 million as of December 31, 1999 from
$1,479.2 million as of December 31, 1998  principally  reflecting an increase of
$207.3 million in net unrealized  depreciation  of investments and $96.4 million
in share repurchases  relating to the Company's stock repurchase plan, partially
offset by an  increase  of $146.4  million in  retained  earnings  for the year.
Dividends of $11.0  million,  $11.6  million and $10.1 million were declared and
paid by the Company in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.  During the year ended
December 31, 2000, the Company repurchased 0.650 million of its common shares at
an average price of $25.24 per share with all such repurchases  occurring in the
three  months  ended March 31,  2000,  raising the total  repurchases  under the
Company's  authorized  repurchase  program to 4.720 million shares at an average
price of $27.60 per share with a total repurchase  expenditure to date of $130.4
million.  At December 31, 2000, 2.180 million shares remained under the existing
repurchase authorization.  As part of the Company's restructuring,  the treasury
shares held by the Company prior to February 24, 2000 were retired, resulting in
a reduction to treasury shares with a corresponding reduction of paid-in capital
and common shares.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
LIQUIDITY.  The Company's  liquidity  requirements  are met on a short-term  and
long-term basis by funds provided by premiums  collected,  investment income and
collected reinsurance  receivables  balances,  and from the sale and maturity of
investments  together  with  the  availability  of  funds  under  the  Company's
revolving  credit  facility.   The  Company's  net  cash  flows  from  operating
activities  were $90.0 million,  $203.4 million and $183.3 million in 2000, 1999
and 1998,  respectively.  These cash flows were impacted by recoveries under the
Company's  Stop  Loss  Agreement  with  Mt.  McKinley,  which,  prior to the Mt.
McKinley acquisition,  contributed $9.5 million, $79.0 million and $31.9 million
in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. These cash flows were also impacted by net
catastrophe  loss payments of $44.1 million,  $28.3 million and $30.6 million in
2000,  1999  and  1998,  respectively,  and by net  income  taxes  paid of $63.7
million,  $59.6 million and $65.7 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998,  respectively.
Management  believes  that net  cash  flows  from  operating  activities,  after


consideration  of  the  factors  noted  above,  are  generally  consistent  with
expectations  given  changes in the  Company's mix of business over the past few
years  toward  products  with shorter loss  development  and payout  periods and
normal variability in the payout of loss reserves.

Proceeds from sales, calls and maturities and investment asset acquisitions were
$1,006.5 million and $2,024.6 million,  respectively, in 2000 compared to $941.1
million  and  $1,068.4  million,  respectively,  in 1999 and $634.2  million and
$755.3 million,  respectively, in 1998. Additionally,  the cash flow activity in
2000 included $340.1 million of new cash resulting from the  acquisitions of Mt.
McKinley and AFC Re and $450.0  million in proceeds from  Holdings'  offering of
senior  notes.  The  Company's  current  investment  strategy  seeks to maximize
after-tax  income  through  a high  quality,  diversified,  duration  sensitive,
taxable bond and tax-preferenced municipal bond portfolio,  while maintaining an
adequate level of liquidity.

EXPOSURE TO  CATASTROPHES.  As with other  reinsurers,  the Company's  operating
results and  financial  condition  can be  adversely  affected  by volatile  and
unpredictable  natural  and other  disasters,  such as  hurricanes,  windstorms,
earthquakes,  floods,  fires and  explosions.  Although the Company  attempts to
limit  its  exposure  to  acceptable  levels,  it is  possible  that  an  actual
catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse
effect on the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of the
Company.

The Company employs various techniques, including licensed software modeling, to
assess its accumulated  exposure to property  catastrophe  losses and summarizes
that exposure in terms of the probable maximum loss ("PML"). The Company defines
PML as its  anticipated  maximum  property  loss,  taking into account  contract
limits,  caused by a single catastrophe  affecting a broad contiguous geographic
area,  such as that caused by a hurricane or earthquake of such a magnitude that
it is expected to occur once in every 100 years.  Management  estimates that the
Company's  greatest  catastrophe  exposure worldwide from any single event is to
hurricanes and  earthquakes in the coastal  regions of the United States,  where
the  Company  estimates  it  has  a  PML  exposure,   before   reinsurance,   of
approximately  $203  million in each such region  based on its  current  book of
business. Similarly, management estimates that the largest current PML exposure,
before  reinsurance,  outside the United States is  approximately  $102 million.
There can be no assurance that the Company will not  experience  losses from one
or more catastrophic  events that exceed,  perhaps by a substantial  amount, its
estimated PML.

The Company maintains a corporate-level retrocessional protection program, above
and beyond retrocessions purchased with respect to specific assumed business, to
mitigate the potential impact of catastrophe losses. The principal components of
the  Company's  corporate  retrocessional  protection  program  as it relates to
catastrophes  are an  accident  year  aggregate  excess of loss  treaty  and the
retrocesssional  excess of loss coverage of  international  exposures.  For both
2000 and 2001,  the Company  purchased  accident year  aggregate  excess of loss
retrocession  coverage,  which  provides up to $175.0  million of  recoveries if
Everest Re's  consolidated  statutory  basis  accident year loss ratio exceeds a
loss ratio attachment point provided in the contract for the respective accident
years. Each arrangement  provides for an adjustment  premium,  which reduces the
net benefit by  approximately  50%, in the event that the coverage is used.  The
Company's  corporate  retrocessional  protection  program  includes a  two-layer
property  catastrophe  excess of loss program for losses incurred outside of the
United  States,  which provide  coverage of 58.25% of $17.5 million of losses in
excess of $15 million of losses per  occurrence and 70% of $20 million of losses
in excess of $32.5 million of losses per occurrence.  This coverage relates to a


twelve-month  period  beginning June 6, 2000 and the continuation or replacement
of such coverage in June 2001 cannot be assured. All aspects of the retrocession
program  have been  structured  to permit  the  program to be  accounted  for as
reinsurance  under SFAS No. 113. See ITEM 1 - "Risk  Management and Retrocession
Arrangements" for further details.

If a single catastrophe were to occur in the United States that resulted in $203
million of gross losses and allocated loss adjustment  expenses ("ALAE") in 2001
(an amount  equivalent  to the Company's  PML),  management  estimates  that the
effect  (including  additional  premiums  and  retained  losses and ALAE) on the
Company's income before and after taxes would be  approximately  $98 million and
$63 million, respectively. These pre-tax and after-tax net loss estimates assume
that the Company's aggregate losses and ALAE for 2001 would exceed the threshold
loss ratio  requirement in the aggregate excess of loss cover by at least $175.0
million.

DIVIDENDS
During 2000, 1999 and 1998 the Company declared and paid  shareholder  dividends
of $11.0 million, $11.6 million and $10.1 million, respectively.

GROUP.  Under  Bermuda  law,  Group is  prohibited  from  declaring  or paying a
dividend if such payment would reduce the  realizable  value of its assets to an
amount less than the  aggregate  value of its  liabilities  and its issued share
capital and share premium (additional paid-in capital) accounts. Group's ability
to pay  dividends  and  its  operating  expenses  is  partially  dependent  upon
dividends   from  its   subsidiaries.   The  payment  of  dividends  by  insurer
subsidiaries  is limited  under  Bermuda  law and the laws of the  various  U.S.
states in which Group's  insurance and reinsurance  subsidiaries are licensed to
transact  business.  The  limitations  are  generally  based upon net income and
compliance with applicable policyholders' surplus or minimum solvency margin and
liquidity  ratio  requirements  as determined  in  accordance  with the relevant
statutory accounting practices.

BERMUDA RE. Under Bermuda law, Bermuda Re is unable to declare or pay a dividend
if it fails to meet its minimum  solvency margin or minimum  liquidity ratio, or
if after payment of the dividend,  it fails to meet its minimum  solvency margin
or minimum  liquidity  ratio.  As a long-term  insurer,  Bermuda Re will also be
unable to declare or pay a dividend to anyone who is not a policyholder  unless,
after payment of the dividend, the value of the assets in its long-term business
fund,  as certified by its approved  actuary,  will exceed its  liabilities  for
long-term  business by at least the  $250,000  minimum  solvency  margin.  Prior
approval of the Bermuda Minister of Finance is required if Bermuda Re's dividend
payments  would reduce its prior year-end  total  statutory  capital by 15.0% or
more.

HOLDINGS.  Holdings  is a holding  company  whose only  material  assets are the
capital  stock of  Everest Re and Mt.  McKinley.  Holdings'  cash flow  consists
primarily of dividends  and other  permissible  payments from Everest Re and Mt.
McKinley and  borrowings  under credit  facilities.  Holdings  depends upon such
payments  for funds  for  general  corporate  purposes,  including  its debt and
operating expense obligations.

On March 14,  2000,  Holdings  completed  public  offerings  of  $200.0  million
principal  amount of 8.75%  senior  notes due March 15, 2010 and $250.0  million
principal  amount of 8.5% senior notes due March 15, 2005.  During 2000, the net
proceeds of these offerings and additional funds were distributed by Holdings to
Group.  Approximately  $250.0 million of the distributions were used by Group to
capitalize Bermuda Re. Interest expense incurred in connection with these senior
notes was $30.9 million at December 31, 2000.


On December 21, 1999, Holdings entered into a three-year senior revolving credit
facility with a syndicate of lenders (the "Credit Facility"), which replaced its
prior credit  facility  which had been extended in June 1999 and increased  from
$50.0 million to $75.0 million on November 9, 1999. First Union National Bank is
the  administrative  agent for the Credit Facility.  The Credit Facility will be
used for liquidity and general corporate purposes and to refinance existing debt
under Holding's prior credit  facility,  which has been  terminated.  The Credit
Facility  provides for the borrowing of up to $150.0  million with interest at a
rate selected by Holdings  equal to either (1) the Base Rate (as defined  below)
or (2) an adjusted London  InterBank  Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus a margin.  The
Base  Rate is the  higher of the rate of  interest  established  by First  Union
National Bank from time to time as its prime rate or the Federal Funds rate plus
0.5% per annum.  On December 18, 2000, the Credit Facility was amended to extend
the  borrowing  limit to $235.0  million for a period of 120 days, at which time
the limit reverts to $150.0  million.  The amount of margin and the fees payable
for the Credit  Facility  depend upon  Holding's  senior  unsecured debt rating.
Group has guaranteed Holdings' obligations under the Credit Facility.

The Credit Facility  requires the Company to maintain a debt to capital ratio of
not greater  than 0.35 to 1,  Holdings to maintain a minimum  interest  coverage
ratio of 2.5 to 1 and Everest Re to  maintain  its  statutory  surplus at $850.0
million  plus 25% of future  aggregate  net income  and 25% of future  aggregate
capital contributions.  The Company was in compliance with these requirements at
December 31, 2000.

At December 31, 2000 and 1999,  Holdings had  outstanding  borrowings  under the
Credit  Facility of $235.0  million and $59.0  million,  respectively.  Interest
expense  incurred in connection with these  borrowings was $8.5 million and $1.5
million at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

EVEREST  RE. The  payment of  dividends  to Holdings by Everest Re is subject to
limitations   imposed  by  the  Delaware   Insurance  Code.   Based  upon  these
restrictions, the maximum amount that will be available for payment of dividends
to Holdings  by Everest Re in 2001  without  the prior  approval  of  regulatory
authorities is $165.1 million, of which $100.0 million was paid in January 2001.
Everest  Re's future cash flow  available  to Holdings  may be  influenced  by a
variety of factors,  including changes in the property and casualty  reinsurance
market, Everest Re's financial results, insurance regulatory changes and changes
in general economic  conditions.  The availability of such cash flow to Holdings
could also be  influenced  by, among other  things,  changes in the  limitations
imposed by the  Delaware  Insurance  Code on the payment of dividends by Everest
Re.  Holdings  expects  that,  absent  significant   catastrophe   losses,  such
restrictions should not affect Everest Re's ability to declare and pay dividends
sufficient to support Holdings' general corporate needs.

MARKET SENSITIVE INSTRUMENTS
The Securities and Exchange Commission  Financial Reporting Release #48 requires
registrants  to  clarify  and  expand  upon  the  existing  financial  statement
disclosure   requirements  for  derivative  financial  instruments,   derivative
commodity instruments,  and other financial instruments  (collectively,  "market
sensitive instruments").

The Company's  current  investment  strategy seeks to maximize  after-tax income
through a high quality, diversified,  taxable and tax-preferenced fixed maturity
portfolio,  while maintaining an adequate level of liquidity.  The Company's mix
of taxable and tax-preferenced investments is adjusted continuously,  consistent
with its current and projected  operating results,  market  conditions,  and tax


position.  The fixed  maturities  in the  investment  portfolio are comprised of
non-trading available for sale securities.  Additionally, the Company invests in
equity securities, which it believes will enhance the risk-adjusted total return
of the investment portfolio.

The overall  strategy  considers  the scope of present and  anticipated  Company
operations.  In  particular,  estimates of the financial  impact  resulting from
non-investment  asset and  liability  transactions,  together with the Company's
capital  structure  and  other  factors,  are used to  develop  a net  liability
analysis.  This analysis includes estimated payout characteristics for which the
investments of the Company provide liquidity. This analysis is considered in the
development of specific  investment  strategies for asset allocation,  duration,
and credit  quality.  The  change in  overall  market  sensitive  risk  exposure
principally  reflects the asset  changes that took place during the year with no
material change in the underlying risk characteristics.

The $5.5 billion investment  portfolio is comprised of fixed maturity securities
that are  subject to  interest  rate risk and foreign  currency  rate risk,  and
equity  securities  that are subject to equity  price risk.  The impact of these
risks in the investment portfolio is generally mitigated by changes in the value
of  operating  assets and  liabilities  and their  associated  income  statement
impact.

Interest  rate  risk is the  potential  change  in value of the  fixed  maturity
portfolio  due  to  change  in  market  interest  rates.  Further,  it  includes
prepayment risk in a declining  interest rate  environment on the $821.1 million
of the $5.0 billion fixed maturity portfolio,  which consists of mortgage-backed
securities.   Prepayment  risk  results  from  potential  accelerated  principal
payments  that  shorten the average  life and thus,  the  expected  yield of the
security.

The tables below display the potential  impact of market value  fluctuations and
after-tax unrealized appreciation on the fixed maturity portfolio as of December
31, 2000 and 1999 based on parallel 200 basis point shifts in interest  rates up
and down in 100 basis point  increments.  For legal entities with a U.S.  dollar
functional currency,  this modeling was performed on each security individually.
To generate appropriate price estimates on mortgage-backed  securities,  changes
in prepayment  expectations under different interest rate environments are taken
into account. For legal entities with a non-U.S. dollar functional currency, the
effective  duration of the involved  portfolio of securities was used as a proxy
for the market value change under the various  interest  rate change  scenarios.
All amounts are in U.S. dollars and are presented in millions.






Foreign  currency rate risk is the potential change in value,  income,  and cash
flow  arising from  adverse  changes in foreign  currency  exchange  rates.  The
Company's  foreign  operations  each  maintain  capital in the  currency  of the
country of its geographic location consistent with local regulatory  guidelines.
Generally, the Company prefers to maintain the capital of its foreign operations
in U.S.  dollar  assets  although  this  varies by  regulatory  jurisdiction  in
accordance with market needs. Each foreign operation may conduct business in its
local currency as well as the currency of other  countries in which it operates.
The primary  foreign  currency  exposures are the Canadian  Dollar,  the British
Pound Sterling and the Euro for these foreign operations.  The Company mitigates
foreign exchange  exposure by a general matching of the currency and duration of
its  assets to its  corresponding  operating  liabilities.  In  accordance  with
Financial  Accounting  Standards Board Statement No. 52, the Company  translates
the assets,  liabilities and income of non-U.S. dollar functional currency legal
entities to the U.S. dollar.  This translation amount is reported as a component
of other comprehensive income. The primary functional foreign currency exposures
are the Canadian  Dollar,  the Belgian Franc and the British Pound  Sterling for
these foreign operations.

The tables  below  display the  potential  impact of a parallel 20% increase and
decrease in foreign  exchange rates on the valuation of invested  assets subject
to foreign currency exposure in 10% increments as of December 31, 2000 and 1999.
This analysis  includes the after-tax impact of translation  from  transactional
currency to functional  currency as well as the after-tax  impact of translation
from functional currency to the U.S. dollar reporting currency. During 1999, the
Company  redenominated  into the Euro all  invested  assets  denominated  in the
eleven  currencies  committed  to  convert  to the Euro.  The impact of the Euro
conversion was not material to the Company's  business,  operations or financial
condition. All amounts are in U.S. dollars and are presented in millions.






Equity  risk is the  potential  change in market  value of the common  stock and
preferred  stock  portfolios  arising from changing  equity prices.  The Company
invests in  predominately  high  quality  preferred  and common  stocks that are
traded on the major  exchanges in the United  States.  The primary  objective in
managing the $36.5  million  equity  portfolio is to provide  long-term  capital
growth through market appreciation and income.

The tables  below  display the impact on market value and  after-tax  unrealized
appreciation  of a 20% change in equity prices up and down in 10%  increments as
of December 31, 2000 and 1999. All amounts are in U.S. dollars and are presented
in millions.




SAFE HARBOR DISCLOSURE
In  connection  with the "safe  harbor"  provisions  of the  Private  Securities
Litigation  Reform  Act of 1995  (the  "Act"),  the  Company  sets  forth  below
cautionary statements  identifying important factors that, among others, in some
cases have affected and that could cause its actual results to differ materially
from  those  which  might  be  projected,   forecasted,   or  estimated  in  its
forward-looking  statements,  as defined in the Act, made by or on behalf of the
Company in press releases,  written  statements or documents filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange  Commission,  or in its  communications  and discussions
with investors and analysts in the normal course of business  through  meetings,
phone calls and conference calls. These cautionary  statements  supplement other


factors  contained in this report which could cause the Company's actual results
to  differ  materially  from  those  which  might be  projected,  forecasted  or
estimated in its forward-looking statements.

Such forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to, projections
of premium revenue, investment income, other revenue, losses, expenses, earnings
(including earnings per share), cash flows, plans for future operations,  common
stockholders'  equity (including book value per share),  investments,  financing
needs, capital plans,  dividends,  plans relating to products or services of the
Company,  and estimates  concerning the effects of litigation or other disputes,
as well as assumptions for any of the foregoing and are generally expressed with
words  such  as  "believes,"  "estimates,"  "expects,"  "anticipates,"  "plans,"
"projects,"   "forecasts,"   "goals,"  "could  have,"  "may  have"  and  similar
expressions. Undue reliance on any forward-looking statements should be avoided.
The  Company   undertakes  no  obligation  to  publicly  update  or  revise  any
forward-looking  statements,  whether  as a result  of new  information,  future
events or otherwise.

Forward-looking  statements  involve known and unknown risks,  uncertainties and
other factors which may cause the Company's  results to differ  materially  from
such  forward-looking  statements.  Such risks,  uncertainties and other factors
include, but are not limited to, the following:

1)  Changes  in the level of  competition  in the  United  States,  Bermuda  and
international  reinsurance or insurance markets that adversely affect the volume
or  profitability  of the Company's  reinsurance  or insurance  business.  These
changes  include,  but are not  limited  to,  the  intensification  of price and
contract terms competition,  the entry of new competitors,  consolidation in the
reinsurance  and insurance  industry and the  development of new products by new
and existing competitors;

2)  Decrease in the demand for reinsurance  and  insurance  products of the type
offered by the Company and its ceding  insurer customers;

3)  The ability of the Company to execute its strategies;

4)  Occurrence of catastrophic events or other insured or reinsured  events with
a frequency or severity  exceeding the Company's estimates;

5)  Adverse  development  on claim  and claim  expense  liabilities  related  to
business  written in prior years,  including,  but not limited to, evolving case
law and its effect on  environmental  and other latent injury  claims,  changing
government  regulations,  newly identified  toxins,  newly reported claims,  new
theories   of   liability,   or   new   insurance   and   reinsurance   contract
interpretations;

6)  Greater than expected loss ratios on reinsurance or insurance written by the
Company;

7)  Changes in inflation that affect the  profitability of the Company's current
reinsurance and insurance businesses or the adequacy of its claim, claim expense
and policy benefit liabilities;

8)  Loss of services of any key employees;


9)  Lower than estimated  retrocessional  or  reinsurance  recoveries on losses,
including,  but not limited to, losses due to a  decline in the creditworthiness
of the Company's retrocessionaires or reinsurers;

10) Changes in the  reinsurance/retrocessional  market  impacting  the Company's
ability to cede risks above its desired level of retention.

11) Changes  in interest  rates,  increases  in which  cause a reduction  in the
market value of the Company's fixed income investment portfolio,  and its common
shareholders'  equity, and decreases in which cause a reduction of income earned
on new cash flow from operations as well as on the  reinvestment of the proceeds
from sales, calls or maturities of existing investments;

12) Losses due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;

13) Adverse  results  in  litigation  matters,  including,  but  not limited to,
litigation  related to  environmental,  asbestos and  other potential  mass tort
claims;

14) Changes in the Company's ratings;

15) The impact of current and future  regulatory  environments,  generally,  and
on the ability of the Company's  subsidiaries  to  enter and exit reinsurance or
insurance markets;

16) Adverse  changes in  tax  treatment of  the  Company's  business,  including
changes in tax  treatment by the U.S.,  Bermuda or Barbados or other  regulatory
or political organizations with  jurisdiction  or  potential  jurisdiction  over
the Company or its affiliates;

17) Changes in the regulatory  environment  or  regulatory  challenges  that may
restrict  the  ability of Bermuda Re to conduct business; and

18) A contention by the U.S.  Internal  Revenue Service that Group or any of its
Bermuda-based  subsidiaries  is  engaged in the  conduct of a trade or  business
within the United States.

In addition  to the  factors  outlined  above that are  directly  related to the
Company's  businesses,  the Company is also subject to general  business  risks,
including, but not limited to, adverse state, federal or foreign legislation and
regulation,  adverse  publicity or news coverage and changes in general economic
factors.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
See "Market Sensitive Instruments" in ITEM 7.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The financial  statements  and  schedules  listed in the  accompanying  Index to
Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1 are filed as part of this report.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
None.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
Reference  is  made  to  the  sections   captioned   "Election  of   Directors",
"Information Concerning Nominees",  "Information Concerning Continuing Directors
and Executive  Officers" and "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act"
in the  Company's  proxy  statement  for the  2001  Annual  General  Meeting  of
Shareholders,  which  will be filed with the  Commission  within 120 days of the
close  of the  Company's  fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  2000  (the  "Proxy
Statement"), which sections are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
Reference  is made  to the  sections  captioned  "Directors'  Compensation"  and
"Compensation  of  Executive  Officers"  in  the  Proxy  Statement,   which  are
incorporated herein by reference,  except that the Compensation Committee Report
and the Performance Graph are not so incorporated.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
Reference is made to the sections captioned "Common Share Ownership by Directors
and Executive  Officers" and  "Principal  Holders of Common Shares" in the Proxy
Statement, which are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
Reference is made to the section captioned "Certain Transactions with Directors"
in the Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES
The financial  statements  and  schedules  listed in the  accompanying  Index to
Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1 are filed as part of this report.

EXHIBITS
The exhibits listed on the accompanying  Index to Exhibits on page E-1 are filed
as part of this report.

REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
An  amendment  to the current  report on Form 8-K dated  September  19, 2000 was
filed on December 4, 2000  concerning  the  acquisition of Mt.  McKinley  (f/k/a
Gibraltar)  to include  the  filing of the  financial  statements  and pro forma
financial information required to be filed with that current report on Form 8-K.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on March 14, 2001.

                                     EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.


                                     By:  /s/ JOSEPH V. TARANTO
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Joseph V. Taranto
                                          (Chairman and Chief Executive Officer)


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

/s/  JOSEPH V. TARANTO          Chairman and Chief Executive      March 14, 2001
- ----------------------------    Officer and Director
Joseph V. Taranto

/s/  STEPHEN L. LIMAURO         Executive Vice President, Chief   March 14, 2001
- ----------------------------    Financial Officer, Treasurer
Stephen L. Limauro              and Comptroller


/s/  MARTIN ABRAHAMS            Director                          March 14, 2001
- ----------------------------
Martin Abrahams

/s/  KENNETH J. DUFFY           Director                          March 14, 2001
- ----------------------------
Kenneth J. Duffy

/s/  JOHN R. DUNNE              Director                          March 14, 2001
- ----------------------------
John R. Dunne

/s/  THOMAS J. GALLAGHER        Director                          March 14, 2001
- ----------------------------
Thomas J. Gallagher

/s/  WILLIAM F. GALTNEY, JR.    Director                          March 14, 2001
- ----------------------------
William F. Galtney, Jr.


INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

                                                                           Pages
                                                                           -----
Everest Re Group, Ltd.

Reports of Independent Accountants on Financial Statements
 and Schedules                                                               F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2000 and 1999                    F-3

Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for
 the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998                            F-4

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for
 the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998                            F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
 December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998                                            F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                   F-7

Schedules

I   Summary of Investments Other Than Investments in Related Parties
     at December 31, 2000                                                    S-1

II  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant:
     Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2000 and 1999                         S-2
     Statements of Operations for the Years Ended
      December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998                                       S-3
     Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
      December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998                                       S-4

III  Supplementary Insurance Information as of December 31, 2000
      and 1999 and for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999
      and 1998                                                               S-5

IV   Reinsurance for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998        S-6


Schedules other than those listed above are omitted for the reason that they are
not  applicable  or the  information  is otherwise  contained  in the  Financial
Statements.

                                      F-1

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
of Everest Re Group, Ltd.


In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  listed in the index on
page F-1 of this  Form  10-K  present  fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the
financial  position of Everest Re Group,  Ltd. and its  subsidiaries at December
31, 2000 and 1999, and the results of their  operations and their cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000 in conformity with
accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the United States of America.  In
addition,  in our opinion, the financial statement schedules listed in the index
on page F-1 of this Form 10-K  present  fairly,  in all material  respects,  the
information  set  forth  therein  when  read in  conjunction  with  the  related
consolidated  financial  statements.  These  financial  statements and financial
statement  schedules are the  responsibility  of the Company's  management;  our
responsibility  is to  express  an opinion  on these  financial  statements  and
financial  statement  schedules based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of
these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United  States of America,  which  require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial  statements are free of
material  misstatement.  An audit includes examining,  on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and  disclosures in the financial  statements,  assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.


PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
February 14, 2001


                                       F-2

Part I - Item 1

                             EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
               (Dollars in thousands, except par value per share)


The  accompanying  notes  are an  integral  part of the  consolidated  financial
statements.

                                      F-3

                             EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.
         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)


The  accompanying  notes  are an  integral  part of the  consolidated  financial
statements.

                                      F-4

                             EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES
                             IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)


The  accompanying  notes  are an  integral  part of the  consolidated  financial
statements.

                                      F-5

                             EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (Dollars in thousands)



* In the quarter ended September  30,  2000,  the Company  purchased  all of the
capital stock of Mt. McKinley Insurance Company for $51,800. In conjunction with
the acquisition,  the fair value of assets acquired was $679,672 and liabilities
was $627,872.

* In  the  quarter  ended  December  31, 2000,  the Company purchased all of the
capital  stock  of AFC Re Ltd. for $16,573. In conjunction with the acquisition,
the fair  value  of  assets  acquired  was  $231,874 and liabilities assumed was
$215,301.


The  accompanying  notes  are an  integral  part of the  consolidated  financial
statements.

                                      F-6

                             EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998


1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

A.  Business and Basis of Presentation

Everest Re Group, Ltd. ("Group"), a Bermuda company with its principal executive
office in Barbados,  was  established  in 1999 as a  wholly-owned  subsidiary of
Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc.  ("Holdings").  On February  24,  2000,  a
corporate  restructuring  was completed and Group became the new parent  holding
company of Holdings. Holders of shares of common stock of Holdings automatically
became  holders  of the same  number  of common  shares  of Group.  Prior to the
restructuring,  Group had no significant  assets or  capitalization  and had not
engaged in any business or prior  activities  other than in connection  with the
restructuring. Group, through its subsidiaries, principally provides reinsurance
and insurance in the United States,  Bermuda and international  markets. As used
in this document,  the "Company" means Group and its  subsidiaries,  except when
referring to periods prior to February 24, 2000,  when it means Holdings and its
subsidiaries.

The  accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  prepared  in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of
America.  The statements  include the following  domestic and foreign direct and
indirect subsidiaries of Group: Holdings,  Everest Reinsurance  (Bermuda),  Ltd.
("Bermuda  Re"), AFC Re Ltd. ("AFC Re"), Mt.  McKinley  Insurance  Company ("Mt.
McKinley"),   Everest  Global  Services,   Inc.  ("Global  Services"),   Everest
Reinsurance Company ("Everest Re"), Everest National Insurance Company ("Everest
National"),  Everest Indemnity Insurance Company ("Everest Indemnity"),  Everest
Re Holdings,  Ltd.  ("Everest Ltd."),  Southeastern  Security  Insurance Company
("SSIC"),  Everest Insurance Company of Canada ("Everest Canada"),  Mt. McKinley
Managers, L.L.C. ("Managers"),  Workcare Southeast, Inc. ("Workcare Southeast"),
Workcare Southeast of Georgia, Inc. ("Workcare Georgia") and Workcare,  Inc. All
amounts are reported in U.S. dollars.

The preparation of financial  statements in conformity  with generally  accepted
accounting  principles  in the United States of America  requires  management to
make estimates and  assumptions  that affect the reported  amounts of assets and
liabilities (and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities) at the date of
the  financial  statements  and the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

B.  Investments

Fixed  maturity  investments  are  classified as available for sale.  Unrealized
appreciation and depreciation,  as a result of temporary changes in market value
during the period, are reflected in "accumulated other comprehensive income" net
of income taxes in shareholders'  equity.  Unrealized  losses,  which are deemed
other than temporary,  are charged to net income.  Equity securities are carried
at market value with unrealized appreciation or depreciation,  net of applicable
deferred income tax, reflected in shareholders' equity.  Short-term  investments
are stated at cost, which approximates market value. Realized gains or losses on
sale of investments are determined on the basis of identified cost. With respect
to securities  that are not publicly  traded,  market value has been  determined
based on pricing models. For publicly traded  securities,  market value is based
on quoted market prices.  Other invested assets include limited partnerships and
rabbi trusts.  Limited  partnerships are valued pursuant to the equity method of
accounting,   which   management   believes   approximates   market  value.  The
Supplemental  Retirement Plan rabbi trust is carried at market value,  while the
Deferred Compensation Plan rabbi trust and Supplemental Savings Plan rabbi trust
are carried at cost,  which  approximates  market value.  Cash includes cash and
bank time deposits with original maturities of ninety days or less.

                                       F-7

C.  Uncollectible Reinsurance Balances

The Company provides  reserves for uncollectible  reinsurance  balances based on
management's  assessment of the collectibility of the outstanding balances. Such
reserves  were $27.9  million at December 31, 2000 and $25.3 million at December
31, 1999. See also Note 8.

D.  Deferred Acquisition Costs

Acquisition costs,  consisting principally of commissions and brokerage expenses
and certain premium taxes and fees associated with the Company's reinsurance and
insurance  business  incurred  at the time a contract  or policy is issued,  are
deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned,
generally one year.  Deferred  acquisition  costs are limited to their estimated
realizable value based on the related unearned premiums,  anticipated claims and
claim expenses and anticipated  investment  income.  Deferred  acquisition costs
amortized to income  (expense)  were $10.1  million,  $12.4  million and ($11.4)
million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

The  present  value  of  inforce  annuity   business  is  included  in  deferred
acquisition costs. This business will be amortized over the expected life of the
business  at the time of  acquisition.  The  amortization  each  year  will be a
function of the gross  profits each year in relation to the total gross  profits
expected  over the life of the  business,  discounted  at an assumed  net credit
rate.

E.  Reserve for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

The  reserve  for  losses  and  loss  adjustment  expenses  ("LAE")  is based on
individual  case  estimates  and  reports  received  from  ceding  companies.  A
provision is included  for losses and LAE  incurred  but not  reported  ("IBNR")
based on past  experience.  A provision is also  included for certain  potential
liabilities relating to asbestos and environmental exposures,  which liabilities
cannot be estimated with traditional reserving techniques. See also Note 12. The
reserves are reviewed  continually and any changes in estimates are reflected in
earnings in the period the adjustment is made. Management believes that adequate
provision has been made for the Company's  losses and LAE. Loss and LAE reserves
are presented  gross of reinsurance  receivables and incurred losses and LAE are
presented net of ceded reinsurance.

Accruals for contingent  commission  liabilities are established for reinsurance
contracts  that  provide  for the stated  commission  percentage  to increase or
decrease based on the loss experience of the contract.  Changes in the estimated
liability for such arrangements are recorded as contingent commissions. Accruals
for contingent  commission  liabilities are determined through the review of the
contracts  that  have  these  adjustable  features  and are  estimated  based on
expected loss and loss adjustment expenses.

F.  Future Policy Benefit Reserve

Liabilities  for future  policy  benefits on annuity  policies are  estimated on
bases  consistent with those used for the original  policies issued and with the
terms of the reinsurance contracts.

G.  Premium Revenues

Premiums  written are earned  ratably over the periods of the related  insurance
and reinsurance contracts or policies. Unearned premium reserves are established
to cover the  remainder of the  unexpired  contract  period.  Such  reserves are
established based upon reports received from ceding companies or computed  using

                                      F-8

pro rata methods based on statistical data. Written and earned premiums, and the
related costs, which have not yet been reported to the Company are estimated and
accrued. Premiums are net of ceded reinsurance.

H.  Income Taxes

The Company and its  subsidiaries,  where  required,  file their own federal tax
returns and calculate their current tax provisions accordingly.  Deferred income
taxes have been  recorded to recognize  the tax effect of temporary  differences
between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities.

I.  Foreign Currency Translation

Assets and liabilities  relating to foreign  operations are translated into U.S.
dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date;  revenues and
expenses are translated into U.S.  dollars using average  exchange rates.  Gains
and losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements, net
of deferred  income  taxes,  are  excluded  from net income and  accumulated  in
shareholders' equity.

J.  Earnings per Share

Basic  earnings per share are  calculated by dividing net income by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share reflects
the  potential  dilution  that could  occur if  options  granted  under  various
stock-based  compensation  plans were  exercised  resulting  in the  issuance of
common shares that then shared in the earnings of the entity. See also Note 13.

Net income per common share has been computed below in accordance  with SFAS No.
128, based upon weighted average common and dilutive shares outstanding.


Options  to  purchase  5,000  common  shares  at a price of  $64.97  per  share,
1,339,451  common  shares at prices  ranging from $23.94 to $39.16 per share and
738,600  common  shares at prices  ranging  from $37.41 to $39.16 per share were
outstanding  at the end of  2000,  1999  and  1998,  respectively,  but were not
included in the  computation  of earnings per diluted  share for the  respective
years,  because the options'  exercise price was greater than the average market
price  of   the   common  shares  at  the  end  of  such  years.   The  options,

                                      F-9

which expire on or between  December  12, 2010,  June 10, 2006 and April 1, 2009
and  September  26,  2007 and  September  25,  2008,  respectively,  were  still
outstanding at the end of 2000 with the exception of 12,900  shares,  which were
not included in the computation at the end of 1999 and 1998, respectively.

K.  Acquisitions

On September 19, 2000, Holdings acquired Mt. McKinley,  f/k/a Gibraltar Casualty
Company,  for $51.8  million.  Mt.  McKinley is a run-off  property and casualty
insurer in the United States. No goodwill was generated in the transaction.  The
acquisition was recorded using the purchase  method of accounting.  Accordingly,
the December 31, 2000 consolidated  financial  statements of the Company include
the results of Mt. McKinley from September 19, 2000.

In connection  with the  acquisition of Mt.  McKinley,  Prudential  Property and
Casualty Insurance Company ("Prupac"),  a subsidiary of The Prudential Insurance
Company of America ("The  Prudential"),  provided  reinsurance  to Mt.  McKinley
covering  80%  ($160.0  million)  of the first  $200.0  million  of any  adverse
development  of Mt.  McKinley's  reserves  as of  September  19,  2000  and  The
Prudential  guaranteed  Prupac's  obligation  to Mt.  McKinley.  The  stop  loss
reinsurance  protection  that was  provided  by Mt.  McKinley at the time of the
Company's  Initial  Public  Offering  ("IPO")  and other  reinsurance  contracts
between Mt. McKinley and Everest Re remain in effect  following the acquisition.
However,  these contracts have become transactions  with  affiliates,  with the
financial impact eliminated in consolidation.

The following  unaudited pro forma  information  assumes the  acquisition of Mt.
McKinley  occurred at the  beginning of each year  presented.  The unaudited pro
forma financial information is presented for informational  purposes only and is
not necessarily indicative of the operating results that would have occurred had
the acquisition been consummated at the beginning of each year presented, nor is
it necessarily indicative of future operating results.


Also during 2000,  the Company  completed two additional  acquisitions,  SSIC, a
United  States  property  and  casualty  company,   whose  primary  business  is
non-standard  auto and AFC Re, a Bermuda  based life and  annuity  company.  The
combined  purchase price of the  acquisitions was  approximately  $27.0 million.
Goodwill of $3.0 million and $0.0 million for SSIC and AFC Re, respectively, was
generated as a result of these  acquisitions  and both were  recorded  using the
purchase method of accounting.

On July 1, 1998,  Managers  acquired the assets of agency  operations in Alabama
and Georgia  which now  operate as  Workcare  Southeast  and  Workcare  Georgia.
Everest National also acquired an agency  operation in Texas,  Workcare Inc. The
acquisition price of these three agencies was $2.9 million.  These  acquisitions
were accounted for using the purchase method.

Separate pro forma  information of these  additional  acquisitions  has not been
presented as management has determined that such information is not material.

                                      F-10

L.   Segmentation

During the quarter ended December 31, 2000, the Company's  management  realigned
its operating  segments to better reflect the way that  management  monitors and
evaluates  the  Company's  financial  performance.   The  Company,  through  its
subsidiaries,  operates in five  segments:  U.S.  Reinsurance,  U.S.  Insurance,
Specialty Underwriting,  International and Bermuda. The presentation of segments
for 1999 and 1998 has been  restated  to conform to the 2000  presentation.  See
also Note 15.

M.  Future Application of Accounting Standards

The Financial  Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial
Accounting  Standards ("SFAS") No. 133,  "Accounting for Derivative  Instruments
and  Hedging  Activities".   This  statement  requires  all  derivatives  to  be
recognized  as either  assets  or  liabilities  in the  statement  of  financial
position and to be measured at fair value. This statement shall be effective for
all fiscal  quarters of all fiscal years  beginning after June 15, 2000. In June
2000,  the FASB amended SFAS No. 133 with SFAS No. 138,  which  facilitates  the
implementation  of SFAS No. 133 and extends the effective date of implementation
to all fiscal years  beginning after January 1, 2001.  Management  believes that
these  statements will not have a material  impact on the financial  position of
the Company.

                                      F-11

2.  INVESTMENTS

The  amortized  cost,  market  value,  and  gross  unrealized  appreciation  and
depreciation of fixed maturity  investments and equity  securities are presented
in the tables below:


                                      F-12

The  amortized  cost  and  market  value of fixed  maturities  are  shown in the
following table by contractual  maturity.  Mortgage-backed  securities generally
are more  likely to be  prepaid  than  other  fixed  maturities.  As the  stated
maturity of such  securities  may not be  indicative of actual  maturities,  the
total for mortgage-backed securities is shown separately.


Proceeds from sales of fixed  maturity  investments  during 2000,  1999 and 1998
were $764.4  million,  $665.9 million and $373.3  million,  respectively.  Gross
gains of $9.3 million,  $0.9 million and $6.3 million, and gross losses of $27.8
million,  $28.5  million and $6.6  million  were  realized on those sales during
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

The  changes in net  unrealized  gains  (losses) of  investments  of the Company
(including  unrealized  gains and losses on fixed  maturities  not  reflected in
shareholders' equity) are derived from the following sources:


                                      F-13

The components of net investment income are presented in the table below:


The  components of realized  capital  gains  (losses) are presented in the table
below:


Securities  with a carrying  value amount of $255.9 million at December 31, 2000
were on deposit with various  state or  governmental  insurance  departments  in
compliance with insurance laws.

                                      F-14

3.  RESERVE FOR LOSSES AND LAE

Activity in the reserve for losses and LAE is summarized as follows:

- -----------
(1)  Current year paid losses for 2000 are net of ($483,789)  resulting from the
     acquisition of Mt. McKinley.

Prior year incurred losses increased by $7.8 million in 2000, decreased by $35.4
million in 1999 and increased by $26.1  million in 1998.  These changes were the
result of normal reserve development inherent in the uncertainty in establishing
loss  and  LAE  reserves,  as  well  as the  impact  of  foreign  exchange  rate
fluctuations  on loss reserves and, for 1999 and 1998,  changes in the Company's
coinsurance in connection with stop loss reinsurance  protection provided by Mt.
McKinley at the time of the Company's IPO of ($6.0)  million and $17.1  million,
respectively.  Although coverage remains under this reinsurance, the acquisition
of Mt.  McKinley  causes  the  financial  impact  of  any  cessions  under  this
reinsurance to eliminate in consolidation. See also Note 8.


4.  CREDIT LINE

On December 21, 1999, Holdings entered into a three-year senior revolving credit
facility  with a  syndicate  of lenders  (the  "Credit  Facility").  First Union
National Bank is the  administrative  agent for the Credit Facility.  The Credit
Facility  will be used for  liquidity  and  general  corporate  purposes  and to
refinance  existing debt under Holdings' prior credit  facility,  which has been
terminated.  The Credit  Facility  provides  for the  borrowing  of up to $150.0
million with  interest at a rate selected by the Company equal to either (1) the
Base Rate (as defined below) or (2) an  adjusted London  InterBank  Offered Rate
("LIBOR")  plus a margin.  The Base Rate is the  higher of the rate of  interest
established  by First Union National Bank from time to time as its prime rate or
the Federal  Funds rate plus 0.5% per annum.  On December 18,  2000,  the Credit
Facility  was  amended to extend the  borrowing  limit to $235.0  million  for a
period of 120 days, at which time the limit reverts back to $150.0 million.  The
amount of margin  and the fees  payable  for the  Credit  Facility  depend  upon
Holdings'  senior  unsecured debt rating.  Group has guaranteed all of Holdings'
obligations under the Credit Facility.

                                      F-15

The Credit  Facility  agreement  requires  the  Company  to  maintain  a debt to
capital  ratio  of  not  greater  than  0.35  to  1,  Holdings  to  maintain   a
minimum interest  coverage ratio  of  2.5  to  1  and  Everest  Re  to  maintain
statutory  surplus at $850.0 million plus 25% of future aggregate net income and
25% of future  aggregate  capital  contributions.  The Company was in compliance
with these requirements at December 31, 2000.

As of December 31, 2000 and 1999, Holdings had outstanding  borrowings of $235.0
million and $59.0 million, respectively. Interest expense incurred in connection
with these  borrowings  was $8.5,  $1.5 million and $0.0 million for the periods
ending December 31, 2000, December 31, 1999 and December 31, 1998, respectively.

5.  SENIOR NOTES

On March 14,  2000,  Holdings  completed  public  offerings  of  $200.0  million
principal  amount of 8.75%  senior  notes due March 15, 2010 and $250.0  million
principal  amount of 8.5% senior notes due March 15, 2005.  During 2000, the net
proceeds of these offerings and additional funds were distributed by Holdings to
Group.  Approximately  $250.0 million of the distributions were used by Group to
capitalize Bermuda Re. Interest expense incurred in connection with these senior
notes was $30.9 million at December 31, 2000.

6.  OPERATING LEASE AGREEMENTS

The future minimum rental commitments,  exclusive of cost escalation clauses, at
December  31, 2000 for all of the  Company's  operating  leases  with  remaining
non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows:


All of these leases,  the expiration terms of which range from 2001 to 2010, are
for the rental of office space.  Rental expense,  net of sublease rental income,
was $4.5  million,  $4.2  million  and $5.3  million  for  2000,  1999 and 1998,
respectively.

7.  INCOME TAXES

Under  current  Bermuda  law,  no  income  or  capital  gains  taxes are imposed
on  Group  and its Bermuda  subsidiaries.  The  Minister  of Finance  of Bermuda
has  also  assured  Group  and  its  Bermuda  subsidiaries  that,   pursuant  to
The  Exempted   Undertakings  Tax   Protection  Act  of  1966,   they   will  be
exempt    until   2016   from   any   such   taxes   imposed   in   the  future.

                                      F-16

In  Barbados,  Group is  registered  as an external  company and  licensed as an
international  business company.  This provides Group with certain tax benefits,
including a preferred rate of  corporation  tax on profits and gains in Barbados
and exemption from  withholding tax on dividend  payments.  No tax is imposed on
capital gains.

With the exception of Group and its Bermuda subsidiaries,  all the income of the
U.S.  subsidiaries is subject to the applicable federal,  state, and local taxes
on  corporations.  The  provision for federal  income taxes in the  consolidated
statement of income has been calculated  based on the individual  income of each
subsidiary.  It reflects the permanent differences between financial and taxable
income relevant to each subsidiary.  The significant components of the provision
are as follows:


Because  Group and certain  subsidiaries  are not expected to be subject to U.S.
tax, and some other subsidiaries  derive  tax-preferenced  income, the effective
tax rate for the  Company's  U.S.  operations  is less than the  statutory  U.S.
federal tax rate. A reconciliation  of this rate to the Company's  effective tax
rate is as follows:


                                      F-17

Deferred  income  taxes  reflect  the tax  effect of the  temporary  differences
between the value of assets and liabilities for financial statement purposes and
such values as  measured by the U.S.  tax laws and  regulations.  The  principal
items making up the net deferred income tax asset are as follows:


The Company's U.S.  subsidiaries have total net operating loss  carryforwards of
$64.3 million that expire during years 2001-2021. Management believes that it is
more  likely  than not that the Company  will  realize  the  benefits of its net
deferred tax assets and,  accordingly,  no valuation allowance has been recorded
for the periods presented.

Shareholder's  equity at December 31, 2000 reflects tax benefits of $2.2 million
related to compensation expense deductions for stock options exercised.

8.  REINSURANCE

The Company  utilizes  reinsurance  agreements  to reduce its  exposure to large
claims and catastrophic loss occurrences.  These agreements provide for recovery
from  reinsurers  of a  portion  of  losses  and  loss  expenses  under  certain
circumstances   without   relieving  the  insurer  of  its   obligation  to  the
policyholder.  Losses and LAE incurred and earned  premiums are after  deduction
for reinsurance.  In the event reinsurers were unable to meet their  obligations
under reinsurance agreements,  the Company would not be able to realize the full
value of the  reinsurance  recoverable  balances.  The Company may hold  partial
collateral,  including  letters of credit,  under these agreements and has never
suffered a material loss because of a reinsurer's default. See also Note 1(C).

The Company  purchases  corporate  level  retrocessions  covering the  potential
accumulation  of  all  exposures.  For 1999,  the  Company purchased an accident
year  aggregate  excess  of  loss  retrocession  agreement from  London Life and
Casualty  Reinsurance   Corp.  ("London  Life")  which  provided  up  to  $175.0
million   of   coverage   if   Everest   Re's   consolidated   statutory   basis
accident    year    loss   ratio    exceeded    a    loss    ratio    attachment

                                      F-18

point  provided in the contract for the 1999  accident  year.  During 2000,  the
Company  ceded  $70.0  million  of  losses to London  Life,  reducing  the limit
available under the contract to $105.0 million.

Written and earned premiums are comprised of the following:


The amounts deducted from losses and LAE incurred for net reinsurance recoveries
were  $161.6  million,  $7.4  million  and $357.4  million  for the years  ended
December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998,  respectively.  The net reinsurance recoveries
for 1999 and 1998 were impacted by cessions to stop loss reinsurance provided by
Mt. McKinley at the time of the Company's IPO.

                                      F-19

9.  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

The components of comprehensive income for the periods ending December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998 are shown in the following table:


                                      F-20

The  following  table shows the  components of the change in  accumulated  other
comprehensive income for the years ending December 31, 2000 and 1999.


10. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

The Company maintains both a qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension
plan for its U.S. employees.  Generally, the Company computes the benefits based
on average earnings over a period prescribed by the plans and credited length of
service.  The  Company  has  not  been  required  to fund  contributions  to its
qualified defined benefit pension plan for the years ended December 31, 2000 and
1999  because  the  Company's  qualified  plan was  subject to the full  funding
limitation  under  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  guidelines.   The  Company's
non-qualified  defined  benefit pension  plan, effective October 1995,  provides
compensating   pension  benefits  for  participants  whose  benefits  have  been
curtailed  under the qualified  plan due to Internal  Revenue Code  limitations.
Pension  expense for the Company's  plans for the years ended December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998 were $1.0 million, $1.5 million and $1.6 million, respectively.

                                      F-21

The following table summarizes the status of these plans:


Plan assets are comprised of shares in investment trusts with  approximately 63%
and 37% of the  underlying  assets  consisting  of equity  securities  and fixed
maturities, respectively.

Net periodic pension cost included the following components:


The weighted  average  discount  rates used to determine the  actuarial  present
value  of  the  projected  benefit  obligation  for  2000,  1999  and  1998  are
7.5%,   7.5%   and    6.75%,    respectively.    The    rate   of   compensation

                                      F-22

increase used to determine the actuarial  present value of the projected benefit
obligation  for 2000,  1999 and 1998 is 4.50%.  The expected  long-term  rate of
return on plan assets for 2000, 1999 and 1998 is 9.0%.

The Company also maintains both qualified and non-qualified defined contribution
plans ("Savings Plan" and "Non-Qualified  Savings Plan",  respectively) covering
U.S.  employees.  Under the plans, the Company contributes up to a maximum 3% of
the  participants'  compensation  based on the  contribution  percentage  of the
employee.  The  Non-Qualified  Savings Plan provides  compensating  savings plan
benefits for  participants  whose benefits have been curtailed under the Savings
Plan due to Internal Revenue Code limitations.  The Company's  incurred expenses
related to these plans were $0.6  million,  $0.6  million  and $0.5  million for
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

In addition,  the Company maintains several defined  contribution  pension plans
covering non-U.S. employees. Each non-U.S. office (Canada, London, Belgium, Hong
Kong,  Singapore  and  Bermuda)  maintains  a  separate  plan  for the  non-U.S.
employees  working in that location.  The Company  contributes  various  amounts
based on salary, age, and/or years of service. The contributions as a percentage
of salary for the branch  offices  range from 2% to 12%. The  contributions  are
generally used to purchase pension benefits from local insurance providers.  The
Company's  incurred  expenses  related to these  plans were $0.3  million,  $0.3
million and $0.3 million for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

During 1998,  the Company  entered into a change of control  agreement  with the
Chief Executive  Officer and adopted a Senior  Executive Change of Control Plan,
which will  provide  benefits  to certain  officers  in the event of a change in
control of the Company.

11. DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS AND STATUTORY FINANCIAL INFORMATION

A.  Dividend Restrictions

Under Bermuda law,  Group is prohibited  from  declaring or paying a dividend if
such payment would reduce the  realizable  value of its assets to an amount less
than the  aggregate  value of its  liabilities  and its issued share capital and
share premium  (additional  paid-in  capital)  accounts.  Group's ability to pay
dividends  and its  operating  expenses is  dependent  upon  dividends  from its
subsidiaries.  The payment of such dividends by insurer  subsidiaries is limited
under  Bermuda  law and the laws of the  various  U.S.  states in which  Group's
insurance and reinsurance  subsidiaries are licensed to transact  business.  The
limitations  are generally  based upon net income and compliance with applicable
policyholders'   surplus  or  minimum   solvency   margin  and  liquidity  ratio
requirements as determined in accordance with the relevant statutory  accounting
practices.

Under Bermuda law, Bermuda Re is unable to declare or pay a dividend if it fails
to meet its minimum  solvency  margin or minimum  liquidity  ratio,  or if after
payment of the dividend, it fails to meet its minimum solvency margin or minimum
liquidity ratio. As a long-term insurer, Bermuda Re is also unable to declare or
pay a dividend to anyone who is not a policyholder  unless, after payment of the
dividend,  the value of the assets in its long-term  business fund, as certified
by its approved  actuary,  exceeds its liabilities for long-term  business by at
least the  $250,000  minimum  solvency  margin.  Prior  approval  of the Bermuda
Minister of Finance is required if Bermuda Re's dividend  payments  would reduce
its prior  year-end  total  statutory  capital by 15.0% or more. At December 31,
2000, Bermuda Re exceeded all requirements by a significant amount.

                                      F-23

Delaware law provides  that an  insurance  company  which is either an insurance
holding  company or a member of an insurance  holding system and is domiciled in
the state shall not pay dividends  without  giving prior notice to the Insurance
Commissioner  of Delaware and may not pay dividends  without the approval of the
Insurance Commissioner if the value of the proposed dividend,  together with all
other dividends and distributions  made in the preceding twelve months,  exceeds
the greater of (1) 10% of  statutory  surplus or (2) net income,  not  including
realized  capital gains,  each as reported in the prior year's  statutory annual
statement.  In addition,  no dividend may be paid in excess of unassigned earned
surplus.  At December  31, 2000,  Everest Re had $165.1  million  available  for
payment of dividends in 2001 without prior regulatory approval,  of which $100.0
million was paid in January 2001.

B.  Statutory Financial Information

Everest Re prepares  its  statutory  financial  statements  in  accordance  with
accounting  practices  prescribed  or permitted by the National  Association  of
Insurance   Commissioners   ("NAIC")  and  the  Delaware  Insurance  Department.
Prescribed  statutory  accounting  practices  are  set  forth  in a  variety  of
publications  of the  NAIC,  as well as state  laws,  regulations,  and  general
administrative  rules.  The  capital  and  statutory  surplus  of Everest Re was
$1,272.7 million (unaudited) and $1,147.6 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.  The  statutory  net  income  of  Everest  Re was  $165.3  million
(unaudited),  $149.9 million and $176.7 million for the years ended December 31,
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Bermuda Re prepares its statutory  financial  statements in conformity  with the
accounting principles set forth in Bermuda in The Insurance Act 1978, amendments
thereto and Related Regulations. The statutory capital and surplus of Bermuda Re
was $272.7 million (unaudited) at December 31, 2000. The statutory net income of
Bermuda Re was $21.2 million (unaudited) for the year ended December 31, 2000.

C.  Codification

The  Company's  U.S.  insurance  subsidiaries  file  statutory-basis   financial
statements  with the state  departments  of insurance in the states in which the
subsidiary  is  licensed.  On  January  1,  2001,  significant  changes  to  the
statutory-basis  of accounting became effective.  The cumulative effect of these
changes will be recorded as a direct adjustment to statutory surplus. Management
has not  quantified  the effects of  codification  as of December 31, 2000,  but
believes that it will not have a material impact on the Company's U.S. operating
subsidiaries' statutory surplus.

                                      F-24

12. CONTINGENCIES

The Company  continues to receive  claims under  expired  contracts  that assert
alleged injuries and/or damages relating to or resulting from toxic torts, toxic
waste and other hazardous substances,  such as asbestos.  The Company's asbestos
claims typically involve liability or potential liability for bodily injury from
exposure to asbestos or for property damage  resulting from asbestos or products
containing  asbestos.  The  Company's  environmental  claims  typically  involve
potential  liability for (1) the  mitigation  or  remediation  of  environmental
contamination or  (2) bodily injury or property damages caused by the release of
hazardous substances into the land, air or water.

The Company's  reserves include an estimate of the Company's  ultimate liability
for  asbestos  and  environmental  claims  for which  ultimate  value  cannot be
estimated  using  traditional  reserving   techniques.   There  are  significant
uncertainties  in estimating the amount of the Company's  potential  losses from
asbestos and environmental  claims. Among the complications are: (1) potentially
long waiting periods between exposure and  manifestation of any bodily injury or
property   damage;   (2)  difficulty  in  identifying  sources  of  asbestos  or
environmental    contamination;   (3)   difficulty    in   properly   allocating
responsibility  and/or  liability  for  asbestos or  environmental  damage;  (4)
changes in  underlying  laws and  judicial  interpretation  of those  laws;  (5)
potential  for an  asbestos or  environmental  claim to involve  many  insurance
providers  over many  policy  periods;  (6) long  reporting  delays,  both  from
insureds  to  insurance  companies  and  ceding  companies  to  reinsurers;  (7)
historical  data concerning  asbestos and  environmental  losses,  which is more
limited  than  historical  information  on other types of casualty  claims;  (8)
questions concerning interpretation and application of insurance and reinsurance
coverage;  and (9)  uncertainty  regarding  the  number and identity of insureds
with potential asbestos or environmental exposure.

Management  believes that these factors continue to render reserves for asbestos
and environmental  losses  significantly  less subject to traditional  actuarial
methods than are reserves on other types of losses.  Given these  uncertainties,
management  believes  that no meaningful  range for such ultimate  losses can be
established.  The  Company  establishes  reserves  to the  extent  that,  in the
judgment of management, the facts and prevailing law reflect an exposure for the
Company or its ceding company.  Due to the  uncertainties  discussed  above, the
ultimate  losses may vary materially from current loss reserves and could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's future financial condition,  results of
operations and cash flows. See also Note 8.

                                      F-25

The  following   table  shows  the   development  of  prior  year  asbestos  and
environmental  reserves on both a gross and net of retrocessional  basis for the
years ended:


(1) Net of $0.0 million, $0.0 million and $138.5 million ceded in 2000, 1999 and
1998,  respectively,  under the incurred loss reimbursement  feature of the stop
loss  reinsurance  protection  provided  by  Mt.  McKinley  at the  time  of the
Company's IPO.

(2) Net of $0.0 million,  $118.8  million and $39.7 million ceded paid losses in
2000, 1999 and 1998,  respectively,  under the stop loss reinsurance  protection
provided by Mt. McKinley at the time of the Company's IPO.

(3)  Net  paid  losses  for  2000  are net of  $311.3  million,  reflecting  the
establishment  of Mt.  McKinley's  reserves at the  acquisition  date.  Net paid
losses, excluding the impact of the Mt. McKinley acquisition  transaction,  were
($42.3) million.

At December 31, 2000, the gross reserves for asbestos and  environmental  losses
were comprised of $106.8 million  representing  case reserves reported by ceding
companies,  $74.0 million  representing  additional case reserves established by
Everest  Re on assumed  reinsurance  claims,  $51.0  million  representing  case
reserves  established  by Everest Re on direct excess  insurance  claims,  $67.3
million  representing  case  reserves  resulting  from  the  acquisition  of Mt.
McKinley and $394.6 million representing IBNR reserves.

The Company is also named in various legal proceedings  incidental to its normal
business  activities.  In the opinion of the Company,  none of these proceedings
would have a material  adverse effect upon the financial  condition,  results of
operations or cash flows of the Company.

The  Prudential  sells  annuities  which are  purchased by property and casualty
insurance  companies to settle certain types of claim  liabilities.  In 1993 and
prior,  Everest Re, for a fee,  accepted  the claim  payment  obligation  of the
property  and  casualty  insurer,  and,  concurrently,  became  the owner of the
annuity or assignee of the annuity proceeds. In these circumstances,  Everest Re
would be liable if The Prudential were unable to make the annuity payments.  The
estimated  cost  to  replace  all  such  annuities  for  which  Everest  Re  was
contingently  liable at December 31, 2000 and 1999 was $148.7 million and $146.2
million, respectively.

Everest Re has purchased  annuities from an unaffiliated  life insurance company
to settle  certain claim  liabilities  of Everest Re. Should the life  insurance
company become unable to make the annuity payments,  Everest Re would be liable.
The estimated  cost to replace such  annuities at December 31, 2000 and 1999 was
$12.6 million and $11.7 million, respectively.

                                      F-26

13. STOCK BASED COMPENSATION PLANS

The Company has in place its 1995 Stock  Incentive  Plan for key employees  (the
"1995 Employee  Plan"),  its 1995 Stock Option Plan for  Non-Employee  Directors
(the  "1995  Director  Plan") and Board  actions  in 2000 and 1999  which  award
options to  non-employee  directors.  The  Company  applies  APB  Opinion 25 and
related  interpretations  in  accounting  for these  plans  and  Board  actions.
Accordingly,  no compensation  expense has been  recognized in the  accompanying
consolidated  financial  statements  in respect of stock  options  granted under
these plans and Board actions.

Under the 1995  Employee  Plan,  a total of  3,949,000  common  shares have been
authorized  to be granted as stock  options,  stock awards or  restricted  stock
awards to officers and key employees of the Company. At December 31, 2000, there
were 1,079,611 remaining shares available to be granted. Under the 1995 Director
Plan,  a total of 50,000  common  shares have been  authorized  to be granted as
stock options to  non-employee  directors of the Company.  At December 31, 2000,
there were 38,145 remaining shares available to be granted.  Under Board actions
in 2000 and 1999, a total of 30,000 and 26,000  common  shares have been granted
as stock  options to  non-employee  directors  of the  Company in 2000 and 1999,
respectively.  Options granted under the 1995 Employee Plan vest at 20% per year
over five years,  options  granted  under the 1995 Director Plan vest at 50% per
year over two years and options  granted  under the 2000 and 1999 Board  actions
vest at 33% per year over three  years.  All  options  are  exercisable  at fair
market  value of the stock at the date of grant and expire  ten years  after the
date of grant.  Restricted  stock  granted  under the 1995  Employee Plan vests,
beginning one year after the date of grant,  in equal annual  installments  over
five years.

A summary of the status of the Company's  stock options as of December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998 and changes during the years then ended is presented below:


                                      F-27

The following table summarizes  information  about stock options  outstanding at
December 31, 2000:


Since its 1995 initial  public  offering,  the Company has issued to certain key
employees of the Company restricted shares of stock. Upon issuance of restricted
shares, unearned compensation is charged to shareholders' equity for the cost of
the  restricted  stock and is amortized over the vesting  period.  The amount of
earned  compensation  recognized  as expense  with respect to  restricted  stock
awards was $69,684,  $131,667 and $98,505 for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
In 1998,  10,460  restricted  shares were forfeited.  The Company acquired 1,825
shares,  1,047 shares and 1,680 common shares at a cost of $86,042,  $28,989 and
$57,641 in 2000,  1999 and 1998,  respectively,  from employees who chose to pay
required  withholding taxes with shares exercised under the stock option grants.
There were no such  transactions  in 2000.  Also in 2000,  the Company  recorded
contributions of paid in capital in the amount of $2.2 million  representing the
tax benefits  attributable to the difference  between the amount of compensation
expense  deductible  for tax  purposes  with respect to the stock awards and the
amount  of  such  compensation  expense  reflected  in the  Company's  financial
statements.

Had the compensation cost for the Company's stock based  compensation plans been
determined  based on the fair value at the grant  dates for awards  under  those
plans  consistent  with the method of SFAS No. 123, the Company's net income and
earnings  per share would have been reduced to the pro forma  amounts  indicated
below:


                                      F-28

The fair value of each option  grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions:  (i) dividend
yields ranging from 0.5% to 0.9%, (ii) expected volatility ranging from 32.9% to
45.8%,  (iii)  risk-free  interest rates ranging from a low of 4.7% to a high of
7.0%, and (iv) expected life of 7.5 years.

In addition to the 1995 Employee Plan and 1995 Director  Plan,  Holdings  issued
1,780 shares of treasury  stock and Group  issued  3,732 common  shares in 2000,
Holdings  issued  5,260 and 4,537  shares  of  treasury  stock in 1999 and 1998,
respectively,  having an aggregate  value of $179,500,  $160,000 and $179,135 to
its  non-employee  directors as  compensation  for their service as directors in
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

14. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS

During the normal  course of  business,  the  Company,  through its  affiliates,
engages in  arm's-length  reinsurance  and  brokerage  and  commission  business
transactions  with  companies  controlled  by or  affiliated  with  its  outside
directors.   These  transactions  are  immaterial  to  the  Company's  financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.

15. SEGMENT REPORTING

During the quarter ended December 31, 2000, the Company's  management  realigned
its operating  segments to better reflect the way that  management  monitors and
evaluates  the  Company's  financial  performance.  The Company has restated all
information  for  prior  years to  conform  to the new  segment  structure.  The
Company, through its subsidiaries,  operates in five segments: U.S. Reinsurance,
U.S.  Insurance,  Specialty  Underwriting,  International and Bermuda.  The U.S.
Reinsurance  operation writes property and casualty treaty  reinsurance  through
reinsurance  brokers as well as directly with ceding companies within the United
States, in addition to property,  casualty and specialty facultative reinsurance
through brokers and directly with ceding companies within the United States. The
U.S.  Insurance  operation  writes  property  and casualty  insurance  primarily
through general agent  relationships and surplus lines brokers within the United
States. The Specialty Underwriting operation writes accident and health, marine,
aviation and surety  business  within the United  States and  worldwide  through
brokers and directly with ceding companies.  The International  operation writes
property and casualty  reinsurance  through the  Company's  branches in Belgium,
London,  Canada, and Singapore,  in addition to foreign "home-office"  business.
The Bermuda  operation  writes  property,  casualty,  life and annuity  business
through brokers and directly with ceding companies.

These  segments  are  managed in a  carefully  coordinated  fashion  with strong
elements of central control, including with respect to capital,  investments and
support operations. As a result, management monitors and evaluates the financial
performance of these operating  segments based upon their  underwriting  gain or
loss ("underwriting results").  Underwriting results include earned premium less
losses  and  LAE  incurred,   commission   and  brokerage   expenses  and  other
underwriting expenses. The accounting policies of the operating segments are the
same as those described in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.

The  Company  does not  maintain  separate  balance  sheet  data for each of its
operating  segments.  Accordingly,  the Company does not review and evaluate the
financial results of its operating segments based upon balance sheet data.

                                      F-29

The following tables present the relevant underwriting results for the operating
segments for the three years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.






                                      F-30



The  following  table  reconciles  the  underwriting  results for the  operating
segments  to income  before tax as reported in the  consolidated  statements  of
operations and comprehensive income:


The Company  writes  premium in the United  States,  Bermuda  and  international
markets.  The revenues,  net income and  identifiable  assets of the  individual
foreign countries in which the Company writes business are not material.

Approximately  12.8%, 17.9% and 17.0% of the Company's gross premiums written in
2000, 1999 and 1998,  respectively,  were sourced through the Company's  largest
intermediary.

16. SUBSEQUENT EVENT

During 2001,  the Company  paid down its credit  facility  borrowings  by $123.0
million, bringing the total outstanding borrowings to $112.0 million from $235.0
million.

On January 18, 2001, Everest Re paid a $100.0 million dividend to Holdings.

                                      F-31

17. UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA

Summarized quarterly financial data were as follows:


(1)  Fourth Quarter 1999 includes $2,798 of non-recurring restructure expenses.


                                      F-32

                             EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.

                      SCHEDULE I - SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS -
                    OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES
                                DECEMBER 31, 2000
                             (Dollars in thousands)




                                      S-1

                             EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.
       SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE REGISTRANT (1)
                             CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
               (Dollars in thousands, except par value per share)



(1)  On  February  24,  2000,  Everest  Re  Group,  Ltd.  became  the  successor
registrant to  Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc.,  therefore the 1999 column
represents the  financial information for Everest Reinsurance Holdings, Inc. and
the 2000 column represents the financial information for Everest Re Group, Ltd.

                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      S-2

                             EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.
       SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE REGISTRANT (1)
                        CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                             (Dollars in thousands)




(1)  On  February  24,  2000,  Everest  Re  Group,  Ltd.  became  the  successor
registrant to  Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc.,  therefore  the  1998  and
1999  columns  represent  the  financial  information  for  Everest  Reinsurance
Holdings,  Inc. and  the  2000  column  represents the financial information for
Everest Re Group, Ltd.

                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      S-3

                             EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.
       SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE REGISTRANT (1)
                        CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASHFLOWS
                             (Dollars in thousands)



(1)  On  February  24,  2000,  Everest  Re  Group,  Ltd.  became  the  successor
registrant to Everest Reinsurance Holdings, Inc., therefore the  1998  and  1999
columns  represent  the financial information for Everest Reinsurance  Holdings,
Inc. and  the  2000  column  represents the financial information for Everest Re
Group, Ltd.

                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      S-4

                             EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.

               SCHEDULE III - SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION
                             (Dollars in thousands)



(1)  The 1998 and 1999 amounts have been restated to conform to the 2000 segment
presentation.

                                      S-5

                             EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.

                            SCHEDULE IV - REINSURANCE
                             (Dollars in thousands)


                                      S-6

INDEX TO EXHIBITS


Exhibit No.                                                                 Page
- -----------                                                                 ----

2.1     Agreement  and Plan of Merger among  Everest  Reinsurance
        Holdings,  Inc., Everest Re Group,  Ltd.  and  Everest Re
        Merger  Corporation,  incorporated herein by reference to
        Exhibit 2.1 to the  Registration  Statement on  Form  S-4
        (No. 333-87361)

3.1     Memorandum  of  Association  of  Everest Re Group,  Ltd.,
        incorporated herein by  reference to Exhibit 3.1  to  the
        Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-87361)

3.2     Bye-Laws of Everest Re Group, Ltd.,  incorporated  herein
        by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Everest Re Group, Ltd.
        Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the  year  ended December
        31, 1999 (the "1999 10-K")

4.1     Specimen Everest Re Group, Ltd. Common share certificate,
        incorporated herein by reference to  Exhibit 4.1  of  the
        Registration Statement of Form S-4 (No. 333-87361)

4.2     Indenture,   dated   March  14,  2000,   between  Everest
        Reinsurance Holdings, Inc. and The Chase Manhattan  Bank,
        as Trustee, incorporated herein by reference  to  Exhibit
        4.1 to Everest Reinsurance Holdings, Inc. Form 8-K  filed
        on March 15, 2000

4.3     First Supplemental Indenture  relating to the 8.5% Senior
        Notes due March 15, 2005, dated  March 14, 2000,  between
        Everest   Reinsurance   Holdings,   Inc.  and  The  Chase
        Manhattan   Bank,  as  Trustee,  incorporated  herein  by
        reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Everest Reinsurance Holdings,
        Inc. Form 8-K filed on March 15, 2000

4.4     Second  Supplemental  Indenture  relating  to  the  8.75%
        Senior Notes  due  March  15, 2010, dated March 14, 2000,
        between Everest Reinsurance  Holdings, Inc. and The Chase
        Manhattan   Bank,  as  Trustee,  incorporated  herein  by
        reference  to  Exhibit  4.3  to  the  Everest Reinsurance
        Holdings, Inc. Form 8-K filed on March 15, 2000

*10.1   Everest Re Group,  Ltd.  Annual  Incentive Plan effective
        January 1, 1999,  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to
        Exhibit 10.1 to Everest Reinsurance Holdings, Inc. Annual
        Report on  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998
        (the "1998 10-K")

                                      E-1

*10.2   Everest Re Group, Ltd. Amended 1995 Stock Incentive Plan,
        incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.3 to
        Everest Reinsurance Holdings, Inc. Annual Report  on Form
        10-K for  the  year  ended  December  31, 1995 (the "1995
        10-K")

*10.3   Everest Re Group,  Ltd. 1995 Stock Option Plan  for  Non-
        Employee  Directors,  incorporated herein by reference to
        Exhibit 4.3 to  the  Registration  Statement  on Form S-8
        (No. 333-05771)

*10.4   Resolution adopted  by  Board  of  Directors  of  Everest
        Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc.  on  April 1, 1999  awarding
        stock options  to outside  Directors, incorporated herein
        by  reference  to  Exhibit 10.25  to  Everest Reinsurance
        Holdings,  Inc.  Quarterly  Report  on  Form 10-Q for the
        quarter  ended  June 30, 1999  (the  "second quarter 1999
        10-Q")

*10.5   Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors  of  Everest
        Reinsurance  Holdings, Inc. on February 23, 2000 awarding
        stock options to  outside  Directors, incorporated herein
        by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the 1999 10-K

*10.6   Form of Non-Qualified  Stock  Option  Award  Agreement to
        be entered  into  between  Everest  Re  Group,  Ltd.  and
        participants   in   the   1995   Stock   Incentive  Plan,
        incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to  the
        1995 10-K

*10.7   Form of  Restricted  Stock  Agreement to  be entered into
        between Everest Re Group, Ltd. and  participants  in  the
        1995  Stock   Incentive   Plan,  incorporated  herein  by
        reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the 1995 10-K

*10.8   Form of Stock Option Agreement (Version  1) to be entered
        into between  Everest  Re Group, Ltd. and participants in
        the 1995 Stock Option Plan  for  Non-Employee  Directors,
        incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit  10.17 to the
        1995 10-K

*10.9   Form of Stock Option Agreement (Version  2) to be entered
        into between  Everest  Re Group, Ltd. and participants in
        the 1995 Stock Option Plan  for  Non-Employee  Directors,
        incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit  10.18 to the
        1995 10-K

*10.10  Form   of   Stock   Option   Agreement  for  Non-Employee
        Directors,  incorporated  herein  by reference to Exhibit
        10.34 to the 1999 10-K

*10.11  Deferred  Compensation Plan,  as  amended,   for  certain
        United States employees of Everest Re Group, Ltd. and its

                                      E-2

        participating   subsidiaries   incorporated   herein   by
        reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the 1998 10-K

*10.12  Senior Executive  Change of  Control  Plan,  incorporated
        herein   by   reference  to   Exhibit  10.24  to  Everest
        Reinsurance Holdings, Inc. Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q
        for the quarter ended September 30, 1998

*10.13  Executive  Performance  Annual Incentive Plan  adopted by
        stockholders  on  May  20,  1999,  incorporated herein by
        reference to Exhibit  10.26  to  the  second quarter 1999
        10-Q

*10.14  Employment Agreement with Joseph V.  Taranto  executed on
        July  15,  1998,  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to
        Exhibit  10.21  to  Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc.
        Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended June
        30, 1998 (the "second quarter 1998 10-Q")

*10.15  Amendment of Employment Agreement by  and  among  Everest
        Reinsurance Company,  Everest Reinsurance Holdings, Inc.,
        Everest  Re  Group,  Ltd.  and  Joseph  V. Taranto  dated
        February 15, 2000, incorporated  herein  by  reference to
        Exhibit 10.29 to the 1999 10-K

*10.16  Change  of  Control  Agreement  with  Joseph  V.  Taranto
        effective July 15, 1998, incorporated herein by reference
        to Exhibit 10.22 to the second quarter 1998 10-Q

*10.17  Amendment  of  Change  of Control  Agreement by and among
        Everest   Reinsurance   Company,    Everest   Reinsurance
        Holdings, Inc.,  Everest  Re  Group,  Ltd.  and Joseph V.
        Taranto dated February 15, 2000,  incorporated  herein by
        reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the 1999 10-K

10.18   Credit  Agreement Between Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings,
        Inc., the Lenders Named Therein and First Union  National
        Bank  dated  December  21,  1999  providing  for  a  $150
        million Senior Revolving  Credit  Facility,  incorporated
        herein  by   reference   to  Exhibit   10.30  to  Everest
        Reinsurance Holdings, Inc.  Form 8-K,  filed  on December
        28, 1999

10.19   First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of  December
        21, 1999  between Everest Reinsurance Holdings, Inc., the
        Lenders named  therein  and  First  Union National Bank,
        filed herewith

10.20   Parent  Guaranty  dated February 24, 2000 made by Everest
        Re Group,  Ltd.  in  favor  of  the Lenders under Everest
        Reinsurance    Holdings,    Inc.'s    Credit    Facility,


                                      E-3

        incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the
        1999 10-K

10.21   Guarantor Consent dated December 18, 2000 made by Everest
        Re Group,  Ltd.  in  favor  of  the Lenders under Everest
        Reinsurance   Holdings,  Inc.'s  Credit  Facility,  filed
        herewith

10.22   Stock Purchase Agreement between The Prudential Insurance
        Company of America and Everest Reinsurance Holdings, Inc.
        for  the  sale  of  common  stock  of  Gibraltar Casualty
        Company dated February 24, 2000,  incorporated  herein by
        reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the 1999 10-K

10.23   Amendment No. 1 to Stock Purchase Agreement  between  The
        Prudential  Insurance  Company  of  America  and  Everest
        Reinsurance Holdings, Inc. for the sale  of  common stock
        of Gibraltar  Casualty  Company  dated  August  8,  2000,
        incorporated  herein  by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
        Everest Re Group, Ltd.  Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q for
        the quarter ended June 30, 2000

10.24   Proportional Excess of Loss Reinsurance Agreement entered
        into  between  Gibraltar  Casualty Company and Prudential
        Property and Casualty Insurance Company, filed herewith

10.25   Guarantee  Agreement  made  by  The Prudential  Insurance
        Company  of  America  in  favor  of   Gibraltar  Casualty
        Company, filed herewith

10.26   Lease, effective December 26, 2000 between OTR,  an  Ohio
        general  partnership,  and  Everest  Reinsurance Company,
        filed herewith

11.1    Statement  regarding  computation of  per share earnings,
        filed herewith

21.1    Subsidiaries of the registrant, filed herewith

23.1    Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, filed herewith

27.1    Financial Data Schedule, filed herewith

- --------------------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

                                      E-4


