
10-K405
EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD. FORM 10-K


================================================================================


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                 ---------------

                                    FORM 10-K

                                 ---------------

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999       Commission file number 1-15731

                             EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                BERMUDA                                  NOT APPLICABLE
     (State or other jurisdiction)                       (I.R.S. Employer
   of incorporation or organization)                     Identification No.)

                  C/O ABG FINANCIAL & MANAGEMENT SERVICES, INC.
                                  PARKER HOUSE
                        WILDEY BUSINESS PARK, WILDEY ROAD
                              ST. MICHAEL, BARBADOS
                                 (246) 436-6287

          (Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including
             area code, of registrant's principal executive office)

                                 ---------------

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                                       Name of Each Exchange
          Title of Each Class                           on Which Registered
          -------------------                          ---------------------
Common Shares, $.01 par value per share               New York Stock Exchange

                                 ---------------

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

                                 ---------------

         Indicate  by check  mark  whether  the  registrant:  (1) has  filed all
reports  required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter  period that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                                  Yes _X_ No___

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,
to the best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

         The  aggregate  market value on March 16, 2000 of the voting stock held
by non-affiliates of the registrant was $1,315.8 million.

         At March 16, 2000, the number of shares outstanding of the registrant's
common shares was 45,819,697.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

         Certain  information  required by Items 10, 11, 12, and 13 of Form 10-K
is  incorporated by reference into Part III hereof from the  registrant's  proxy
statement for the 2000 Annual  General  Meeting of  Shareholders,  which will be
filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission  within 120 days of the close
of the registrant's fiscal year ended December 31, 1999.

                        SUCCESSION PURSUANT TO RULE 12G-3

On February  24, 2000,  Everest Re Group,  Ltd.,  a Bermuda  company  ("Group"),
became  the  successor  registrant  to Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc.,  a
Delaware  corporation   ("Holdings"),   pursuant  to  Rule  12g-3(a)  under  the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). As the result
of a merger and restructuring, effective on February 24, 2000, Holdings became a
wholly-owned  subsidiary of Group and holders of Holdings'  common stock,  $0.01
par value per share,  automatically  became  holders of the same number of Group
common shares,  $0.01 par value per share, which shares continue to be traded on
the New York Stock Exchange under the same ticker symbol, "RE". Pursuant to Rule
12g-3(g) under the Exchange Act, Group is filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K
for its predecessor registrant,  Holdings, covering the last full fiscal year of
Holdings before the February 24, 2000 succession.

================================================================================


ITEM                                                                        PAGE
- ----                                                                        ----

PART I

  1.  Business...........................................................      1
  2.  Properties.........................................................     22
  3.  Legal Proceedings..................................................     22
  4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders................     22

PART II

  5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
       Stockholder Matters...............................................     22
  6.  Selected Financial Data............................................     23
  7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
       Condition and Results of Operations...............................     25
 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.........     39
  8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data........................     39
  9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
       and Financial Disclosure..........................................     39


PART III

  10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant................     39
  11.  Executive Compensation............................................     39
  12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
        and Management...................................................     39
  13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions....................     39

PART IV

  14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports
        on Form 8-K......................................................     39


PART I

Unless  otherwise  indicated,  (i) all financial data in this document have been
prepared using generally accepted accounting  principles ("GAAP"),  and (ii) all
statutory  financial  data  referred  to in this  document  refer  to  statutory
financial  data of  Everest  Re. As used in this  document,  "Everest  Re" means
Everest Reinsurance  Company and its subsidiaries  (unless the context otherwise
requires);  "Holdings" means Everest Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc.; "Group" means
Everest Re Group,  Ltd.  (formerly  Everest  Reinsurance  Group,  Ltd.); and the
"Company"  means Group and its  subsidiaries,  except when  referring to periods
prior to February 24, 2000, when it means Holdings and its subsidiaries.

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

THE COMPANY
Group, a Bermuda company, with its principal executive offices in Barbados,  was
established  in 1999 as a wholly-owned  subsidiary of Holdings.  On February 24,
2000, a corporate  restructuring  was  completed and Group became the new parent
holding company of Holdings, which remains the holding company for the Company's
U.S. operations.  Holders of Holdings' common stock automatically became holders
of the same number of Group common shares.  The restructuring  also involved the
establishment of a Bermuda-based  reinsurance  subsidiary,  Everest  Reinsurance
(Bermuda),  Ltd. ("Bermuda Re"), as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Group, which is
expected to commence  operations  later this year.  Bermuda Re is  registered in
Bermuda as a Class 4 insurer and  long-term  insurer and is  authorized to write
property  and  casualty  business  and life and annuity  business.  Prior to the
restructuring,  Group had no significant  assets or  capitalization  and had not
engaged in any business or prior  activities  other than in connection  with the
restructuring.  In connection  with the  restructuring,  Group also formed a new
Delaware  subsidiary to perform  administrative  and  back-office  functions for
Group and its U.S. based and non-U.S. based subsidiaries.

On March 14, 2000, Holdings completed public offerings of $200 million principal
amount of 8.75%  senior  notes due March  15,  2010 and $250  million  principal
amount of 8.50% senior notes due March 15, 2005. Holdings retained approximately
$50 million of the net proceeds for general  corporate  purposes.  Approximately
$400  million of the net  proceeds  were  distributed  by  Holdings to Group and
approximately  $250  million  were used by Group to  capitalize  Bermuda Re. The
remainder  of the  proceeds  that  were  distributed  to Group  will be used for
general  corporate  purposes.  See Note 15B of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.

Holdings, a Delaware corporation, was established in 1993 to serve as the parent
holding  company  of  Everest Re  (formed  in 1973),  a  property  and  casualty
reinsurer.  Until  October  6,  1995,  Holdings  was  an  indirect  wholly-owned
subsidiary of The Prudential Insurance Company of America ("The Prudential"). On
October 6, 1995, The Prudential sold its entire interest in Holdings'  shares of
common stock in an initial public offering (the "IPO").

Holdings, through its wholly-owned subsidiary,  Everest Re, underwrites property
and casualty  reinsurance  on a treaty and  facultative  basis for insurance and
reinsurance companies in the United States and selected  international  markets.
Everest Re writes  reinsurance  both through  brokers and  directly  with ceding
insurance companies,  giving it the flexibility to pursue business regardless of
the ceding company's preferred reinsurance purchasing method. Everest Re and its
subsidiaries  also write  primary  insurance.  The  Company  had gross  premiums
written in 1999 of $1,141.8  million and  stockholders'  equity at December  31,
1999 of $1,327.5  million and Everest Re had  statutory  surplus at December 31,
1999 of $1,147.6 million.  Based on industry data at December 31, 1999 published
by the  Reinsurance  Association  of  America  ("RAA"),  Everest Re is the sixth
largest reinsurance  company in the United States,  ranked by statutory surplus,
and is rated "A+" ("Superior") by A.M. Best, an independent  insurance  industry
rating  organization  that rates  insurance  companies  on factors of concern to
policyholders.

Following  is  a  summary  of  Everest  Holdings'  and  Everest  Re's  operating
subsidiaries:

o        Everest National  Insurance  Company ("Everest  National"),  an Arizona
         insurance  company,  is  licensed  in 42  states  and the  District  of
         Columbia and is authorized to write primary  insurance in the states in
         which it is  licensed,  often called  writing  insurance on an admitted
         basis.

o        Everest  Insurance  Company of Canada  ("Everest  Canada"),  a Canadian
         insurance   company,   is  licensed  in  all  Canadian   provinces  and
         territories and is federally  licensed to write primary insurance under
         the Insurance Companies Act of Canada.

o        Everest Indemnity Insurance Company ("Everest  Indemnity"),  a Delaware
         insurance  company,  engages in the excess and surplus lines  insurance
         business in the United  States.  Excess and surplus lines  insurance is
         specialty  property and liability coverage that an insurer not licensed
         to write  insurance in a particular  state is permitted to provide when
         the specific  specialty coverage is unavailable from admitted insurers.
         This is often called writing insurance on a non-admitted basis. Everest
         Indemnity is licensed in Delaware and is eligible to write  business in
         39 states, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
         on a non-admitted basis.

o        Mt. McKinley Managers,  L.L.C. ("Mt.  McKinley"),  a New Jersey limited
         liability company,  is licensed in New Jersey as an insurance producer,
         which is any  intermediary,  such as an agent or broker,  which acts as
         the conduit between an insurance  company and an insured.  Mt. McKinley
         holds  licenses  to  allow  it to  act in New  Jersey  as an  insurance
         producer in connection with policies  written on both an admitted and a
         surplus  lines  basis.  After  a  1998  acquisition  of the  assets  of
         insurance  agency  operations  in Alabama and Georgia,  the  continuing
         insurance  agency  operations are now carried on by subsidiaries of Mt.
         McKinley.  These subsidiaries are WorkCare Southeast,  Inc., an Alabama
         insurance agency,  and WorkCare  Southeast of Georgia,  Inc., a Georgia
         insurance agency.

o        Everest Re Holdings,  Ltd.  ("Everest Ltd."), a Bermuda company  formed
         in 1998, owns Everest Re Ltd., a United Kingdom company  that is in the
         process of being  dissolved  because its  reinsurance  operations  have
         been converted into branch operations of Everest Re.  Everest Ltd. also
         holds  approximately  $91 million of  investments,  the  management  of
         which  constitutes  its principal operations.

o        Southeastern Security Insurance Company  ("Southeastern  Security"),  a
         Georgia  insurance  company licensed in Georgia and acquired by Everest
         Re in January 2000, writes primary insurance on an admitted basis.

REINSURANCE INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
Reinsurance  is an  arrangement  in which an insurance  company,  the reinsurer,
agrees to indemnify another insurance company,  the ceding company,  against all
or a portion of the insurance risks underwritten by the ceding company under one
or more  insurance  contracts.  Reinsurance  can provide a ceding  company  with
several  benefits,  including a reduction in net liability on individual  risks,
catastrophe   protection  from  large  or  multiple  losses  and  assistance  in
maintaining  acceptable  financial  ratios.  Reinsurance  also provides a ceding
company with additional  underwriting capacity by permitting it to accept larger
risks and write more  business  than  would be  possible  without a  concomitant
increase in capital and surplus.  Reinsurance,  however,  does not discharge the
ceding company from its liability to policyholders.

There are two basic types of reinsurance  arrangements:  treaty and  facultative
reinsurance. In treaty reinsurance,  the ceding company is obligated to cede and
the  reinsurer is obligated to assume a specified  portion of a type or category
of risks insured by the ceding company. Treaty reinsurers, including Everest Re,
do not  separately  evaluate  each of the  individual  risks assumed under their
treaties and, consequently,  after a review of the ceding company's underwriting
practices,  are largely  dependent on the original risk  underwriting  decisions
made by the ceding  company.  Such  dependence  subjects  reinsurers in general,
including  Everest Re, to the  possibility  that the ceding  companies  have not
adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and, therefore, that the premiums
ceded in connection  therewith may not  adequately  compensate the reinsurer for
the risk  assumed.  The  reinsurer's  evaluation  of the ceding  company's  risk
management  and  underwriting  practices,  therefore,  will  usually  impact the
pricing of the treaty. In facultative reinsurance,  the ceding company cedes and
the reinsurer assumes all or part of the risk under a single insurance contract.
Facultative  reinsurance is negotiated  separately  for each insurance  contract
that is  reinsured.  Facultative  reinsurance  normally is  purchased  by ceding
companies for individual risks not covered by their  reinsurance  treaties,  for
amounts in excess of the dollar  limits of their  reinsurance  treaties  and for
unusual risks.  Underwriting  expenses and, in particular,  personnel costs, are
higher on facultative  business  because each risk is individually  underwritten
and  administered.  The  ability to  separately  evaluate  each risk  reinsured,
however,  increases the probability that the reinsurer can price the contract to
more accurately reflect the risks involved.

Both  treaty  and  facultative  reinsurance  can be written on either a pro rata
basis or an excess of loss  basis.  With  respect to pro rata  reinsurance,  the
ceding  company and the  reinsurer  share the premiums as well as the losses and
expenses  in an agreed  proportion.  In the case of  reinsurance  written  on an
excess of loss basis,  the reinsurer  indemnifies the ceding company against all
or a specified  portion of losses and  expenses in excess of a specified  dollar
amount, known as the ceding company's retention or reinsurer's attachment point,
generally subject to a negotiated reinsurance contract limit.


Premiums  payable  by the  ceding  company  to a  reinsurer  for  excess of loss
reinsurance  are not  directly  proportional  to the  premiums  that the  ceding
company receives because the reinsurer does not assume a proportionate  risk. In
contrast,  premiums  that the ceding  company pays to the reinsurer for pro rata
reinsurance are  proportional to the premiums that the ceding company  receives,
consistent  with the  proportional  sharing of risk.  In  addition,  in pro rata
reinsurance the reinsurer generally pays the ceding company a ceding commission.
The  ceding  commission  generally  is based  on the  ceding  company's  cost of
acquiring the business being reinsured (commissions,  premium taxes, assessments
and miscellaneous  administrative  expense) and also may include a profit factor
for producing the business.

Reinsurers  typically  purchase  reinsurance  to cover their own risk  exposure.
Reinsurance  of a  reinsurer's  business is called a  retrocession.  Reinsurance
companies cede risks under retrocessional agreements to other reinsurers,  known
as  retrocessionaires,  for reasons similar to those that cause primary insurers
to purchase  reinsurance:  to reduce net liability on individual risks,  protect
against  catastrophic  losses,  stabilize financial ratios and obtain additional
underwriting capacity.

Reinsurance can be written through professional  reinsurance brokers or directly
with ceding  companies.  From a ceding  company's  perspective,  both the broker
market  and the  direct  market  have  advantages  and  disadvantages.  A ceding
company's decision to select one market over the other will be influenced by its
perception of such  advantages  and  disadvantages  relative to the  reinsurance
coverage being placed.

BUSINESS STRATEGY
The  Company's  business   strategies   include  effective   management  of  the
underwriting cycle, which refers to the tendency of insurance premiums,  profits
and the demand for and  availability of coverage to rise and fall over time. The
Company also seeks to manage its catastrophe  exposures and control expenses and
retrocessional  costs, which are incurred when reinsurers purchase  reinsurance.
The  Company's  underwriting  strategies  seek  to  capitalize  on  its  staff's
expertise  and its  flexibility  to  offer  multiple  products  by  underwriting
reinsurance  through  brokers and directly with ceding  companies and by writing
primary  insurance on an admitted  and  non-admitted  basis in a cost  efficient
manner.  Efforts to control  expenses and to operate in a cost efficient  manner
are a continuing focus for the Company.

The  Company's  products  include  the  full  range  of  property  and  casualty
coverages,  including marine,  aviation,  surety,  errors & omissions  liability
("E&O"),  directors' & officers' liability ("D&O"),  medical malpractice,  other
specialty lines, accident and health,  workers  compensation,  non-standard auto
and loss portfolios. The Company's distribution channels include both the direct
and broker reinsurance markets, international and domestic markets, reinsurance,
both treaty and facultative, and insurance, both admitted and non-admitted.

The Company's underwriting strategy emphasizes underwriting profitability rather
than premium volume,  writing  specialized risks and integration of underwriting
expertise  across all  underwriting  units.  Key  elements of this  strategy are
prudent  risk  selection,   appropriate   pricing  through  strict  underwriting
discipline  and  adjusting  the  Company's  business  mix to respond to changing
market conditions.  The Company focuses on reinsuring companies that effectively
manage the underwriting  cycle through proper analysis and pricing of underlying
risks and whose underwriting  guidelines and performance are compatible with its
objectives.

The  Company's   underwriting   strategy   also   emphasizes   flexibility   and
responsiveness  to  changing  market  conditions,  such as  increased  demand or
favorable  pricing  trends.  The Company  believes that its existing  strengths,
including  its  broad  underwriting   expertise,   international   presence  and
substantial   capital,   facilitate   adjustments   to  its   mix  of   business
geographically,  by line of  business  and by type of  coverage,  allowing it to
capitalize on those market opportunities that provide the greatest potential for
underwriting  profitability.  The  Company's  primary  insurance  infrastructure
further  facilitates  this strategy by allowing the Company to develop  business
that requires the Company to issue primary insurance policies.  The Company will
also  continue to carefully  monitor its mix of business to avoid  inappropriate
concentrations of geographic or other risk.

The Company's  underwriting  guidelines seek to limit the  accumulation of known
risks in exposed areas, to require that business which is exposed to catastrophe
losses  be  written   with   greater   geographic   spread  and  to  maintain  a
cost-effective  retrocession program. The Company's underwriting guidelines also
seek to better reflect the relationship  between premiums and risk assumed while
maintaining the Company's probable maximum loss at appropriate levels.


SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company, through its subsidiaries, operates in five operating segments: U.S.
Broker Treaty, U.S. Direct Treaty Reinsurance and Insurance,  U.S.  Facultative,
Marine,  Aviation and Surety and  International.  These  segments are  generally
referred to as operations in this  document.  The U.S.  Broker Treaty  operation
writes  property,   accident  and  health  and  casualty   reinsurance   through
reinsurance brokers within the United States. The U.S. Direct Treaty Reinsurance
and  Insurance  operation  writes  property,  accident  and health and  casualty
reinsurance  directly with ceding  companies  and primary  property and casualty
insurance,  through agency relationships and program  administrators  within the
United States.  The U.S.  Facultative  operation writes  property,  casualty and
specialty  business  within the United States.  The Marine,  Aviation and Surety
operation  writes marine,  aviation and surety business within the United States
and  worldwide.  The  International  operation  writes  reinsurance  through the
Company's  branches in Belgium,  London,  Canada,  Hong Kong and  Singapore,  in
addition  to  foreign  "home-office"  business.  The U.S.  Facultative,  Marine,
Aviation and Surety and International  operations write business through brokers
and directly with ceding companies.

These  segments  are  managed in a  carefully  coordinated  fashion  with strong
elements of central control, including with respect to capital,  investments and
support operations. As a result, management monitors and evaluates the financial
performance of these operating  segments based upon their  underwriting  gain or
loss ("underwriting  results").  See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated  Financial
Statements.

MARKETING
The  Company  writes  its  business  on a  worldwide  basis  for many  different
customers  and for many lines of property  and  casualty  business,  providing a
broad array of coverages.  The Company is not materially dependent on any single
customer,  small group of customers,  line of business or geographical area. For
the 1999  calendar  year,  no single  customer  generated  more than 7.3% of the
Company's  gross  premiums  written.  The  Company  does  not  believe  that the
reduction of business assumed from any one customer will have a material adverse
effect on its future  financial  condition or results of  operations  due to the
Company's   competitive   position  in  the  market  place  and  the  continuing
availability of other sources of business.

Approximately  68.5% and 31.5% of the Company's 1999 gross premiums written were
written in the broker and direct markets, respectively. The Company's ability to
write  reinsurance both through brokers and directly with ceding companies gives
it the  flexibility  to  pursue  business  regardless  of the  ceding  company's
preferred reinsurance purchasing method.

The  reinsurance  broker  market  consists of several  substantial  national and
international  brokers and a number of smaller specialized  brokers.  Brokers do
not  have  the  authority  to bind  the  Company  with  respect  to  reinsurance
agreements,  nor does the Company commit in advance to accept any portion of the
business  that  brokers  submit  to it.  Reinsurance  business  from any  ceding
company,  whether  new or  renewal,  is subject to  acceptance  by the  Company.
Brokerage  fees  generally  are paid by  reinsurers.  The  Company's ten largest
brokers  accounted  for an aggregate of  approximately  53.0% of gross  premiums
written in 1999 with the two largest brokers accounting for approximately  17.9%
and 13.4%, respectively, of gross premiums written. The Company does not believe
that  the  reduction  of  business  assumed  from  any one  broker  will  have a
materially adverse effect on the Company due to its competitive  position in the
market  place,   relationships   with  ceding   companies  and  the   continuing
availability of other sources of business.

The direct  market  remains an  important  distribution  system for  reinsurance
business  written by Everest Re and primary  insurance  written  through Everest
National  and  Everest  Indemnity  in the United  States and  Everest  Canada in
Canada. Direct placement of reinsurance enables Everest Re to access clients who
prefer to place their reinsurance  directly with their reinsurers based upon the
reinsurer's in-depth  understanding of the ceding company's needs. The Company's
primary  insurance  business  is  written  principally  through  general  agency
relationships.  The Company evaluates each business relationship,  including the
underwriting  expertise and experience of each  distribution  channel  selected,
performs an analysis to evaluate financial security and monitors performance.

UNDERWRITING OPERATIONS
The following  table presents the  distribution  of the Company's gross premiums
written by its U.S. Broker Treaty, U.S. Direct Treaty Reinsurance and Insurance,
Marine,  Aviation and Surety, U.S. Facultative and International  operations for
the years  ended  December  31,  1999,  1998,  1997,  1996 and 1995,  classified
according to whether the premium is derived from  property or casualty  business
and whether it represents pro rata or excess of loss business:



- -------------
(1)  For  purposes  of  the  presentation  above,  pro  rata  reinsurance  means
     reinsurance attaching to the first dollar of loss  incurred  by the  ceding
     company.
(2)  Certain totals and subtotals may not reconcile due to rounding.


U.S. BROKER TREATY OPERATION.  The Company's U.S. Broker Treaty operation writes
property,  accident  and health and  casualty  reinsurance  through  reinsurance
brokers.  The Company targets  certain  brokers and,  through the broker market,
specialty companies and small to medium sized standard lines companies. The U.S.
Broker Treaty operation also writes portions of reinsurance programs for larger,
national insurance companies.

In 1999,  $143.6 million of gross premiums written were attributable to domestic
property  business  (which  in  1999  and  1998  included  accident  and  health
business),  of which  31.2% was written on an excess of loss basis and 68.8% was
written  on a pro rata  basis.  This unit  utilizes  sophisticated  underwriting
methods which  management  believes are necessary to analyze and price  property
business, particularly that segment of the property market which has catastrophe
exposure.  Accident  and  health  underwriting  utilizes  both  third  party and
proprietary actuarial pricing techniques.

Domestic  casualty  business  accounted  for $303.0  million  of gross  premiums
written in 1999, of which 57.5% was written on an excess of loss basis and 42.5%
was  written  on a pro  rata  basis.  The  treaty  casualty  portfolio  consists
principally of professional  liability,  D&O liability,  workers'  compensation,
excess and surplus  lines,  and other  liability  coverages.  As a result of the
complex  technical  nature  of most  of  these  risks,  the  Company's  casualty
underwriters  tend to  specialize  by line of business and work closely with the
Company's pricing actuaries.

DIRECT TREATY REINSURANCE AND INSURANCE  OPERATION.  The Company's direct treaty
reinsurance  unit  writes a full line of  property,  accident  and  health,  and
casualty  business.  In 1999, direct accident and health business  accounted for
$84.6 million of gross  premiums  written,  of which 100.0% was written on a pro
rata basis. In 1999, direct treaty business accounted for $36.0 million of gross
premiums  written,  of which  15.4% was  written  on an excess of loss basis and
84.6% was written on a pro rata basis.  The direct  accident and health business
primarily  focuses on specific and aggregate excess  reinsurance of self-insured
health  plans and first  dollar  medical  reinsurance.  The direct  accident and
health underwriters generally target small to medium sized health employers. The
U.S.  direct treaty  underwriters  target  companies  which place their business
predominantly  in the direct  market,  including  small to medium sized regional
ceding  companies,  and  seek  to  develop  long-term  relationships  with  such
companies. A broad array of coverages are offered.

In 1999, the Company's domestic insurance business consisted of $70.4 million of
gross premiums written,  primarily  through Everest  National.  Everest National
targets  commercial  property  and  casualty  business  written  through  agency
relationships  with program  administrators.  With respect to primary  insurance
written through such agents,  the Company  supplements the initial  underwriting
process with periodic claims and underwriting reviews.

MARINE,  AVIATION AND SURETY  OPERATION.  The Company's marine and aviation unit
focuses on ceding  companies with a particular  expertise in marine and aviation
business.  The marine and aviation business is written primarily through brokers
and contains a  significant  international  component  written  primarily in the
London market.  Surety business  underwritten by the Company  consists mainly of
reinsurance of contract surety bonds

Gross  premiums  written by the marine and aviation  unit in 1999 totaled  $70.7
million,  substantially  all of which was written on a treaty basis and 69.5% of
which was sourced through reinsurance brokers. Marine treaties represented 50.1%
of marine and aviation gross premiums  written in 1999 and consisted of hull and
liability coverage. Approximately 82.5% of the marine unit premiums in 1999 were
written  on a pro rata  basis and 17.5% as  excess  of loss.  Aviation  premiums
accounted for 49.9% of marine and aviation  gross  premiums  written in 1999 and
included   reinsurance   for   airlines,   general   aviation  and   satellites.
Approximately  91.7% of the aviation  unit's  premiums in 1999 were written on a
pro rata basis and 8.3% as excess of loss.

In 1999,  gross  premiums  written by the surety  unit  totaled  $56.0  million.
Approximately  76.8% of the surety unit  premiums in 1999 were  written on a pro
rata  basis  and  23.2% on an excess of loss  basis.  Most of the  portfolio  is
reinsurance  of contract  surety bonds written  directly with ceding  companies,
with the remainder being credit  reinsurance,  mostly in international  markets.
The unit's strategy is to maintain long-term relationships with major surety and
fidelity writers and to continue to expand its international business.

FACULTATIVE  OPERATION.   The  Company's  U.S.  Facultative  operation  conducts
business  both through  brokers and  directly  with ceding  companies.  The U.S.
Facultative   operation   consists  of  three  underwriting  units  representing
property,  casualty and specialty lines of business.  Business is written from a
facultative headquarters office in New York and satellite offices in Chicago and
San Francisco.  In 1999, $21.0 million, $27.5 million and $16.7 million of gross
premiums written were  attributable to property,  general casualty and specialty
lines of business, respectively.

INTERNATIONAL  OPERATION.  The Company's  International operation is designed to
enable  it to  capitalize  on the  growth  opportunities  in  the  international
reinsurance   market.  The  Company  targets  several   international   markets,
including:  Europe and the London  market,  which are  serviced  by  branches in
London  and  Brussels;  Canada,  with  a  branch in Toronto; Asia and Australia,
with  branches  in Hong Kong and Singapore;  and Latin  America,  Africa and the
Middle  East,  which  business  is  serviced  from  the  Company's  New   Jersey
headquarters and Miami office. The Company also writes "home-foreign"  business,


which provides  reinsurance on the  international  portfolios of U.S.  insurers,
from its headquarters in New Jersey.  Approximately  57.4% of the gross premiums
written by the Company's international underwriters in 1999 represented property
business,  while the balance  represented  casualty  business.  As with its U.S.
operations,  the Company's  International operation focuses on financially sound
companies that have strong management and underwriting discipline and expertise.
Approximately 72.4% of the Company's  international business was written through
brokers, with the remainder written directly with ceding companies.

In 1999,  the  Company's  gross  premiums  written by its  London  and  Brussels
branches  totaled  $150.8  million and consisted of pro rata  property  (29.1%),
excess property (27.9%),  pro rata casualty (30.6%) and excess casualty (12.4%).
Substantially  all of the  London  and  Brussels  premiums  consisted  of treaty
reinsurance. The Brussels office focuses on the continental European reinsurance
markets,  while the London office covers international  business written through
the London market.  Gross premiums  written in 1999 from the Brussels and London
offices totaled $46.3 million and $104.5 million, respectively.

Gross premiums written by the Company's Canadian office totaled $46.9 million in
1999 and consisted of pro rata property (16.0%),  excess property  (11.1%),  pro
rata multi-line  (36.6%),  excess casualty (35.3%) and primary insurance written
by Everest Canada (1.0%). Approximately 69.9% of the Canadian premiums consisted
of treaty  reinsurance  while  29.1% was  facultative  reinsurance  and 1.0% was
primary insurance.

The Company's  Hong Kong and Singapore  branches  cover the Asian and Australian
markets and accounted for $24.7 million of gross written  premiums in 1999. This
business  consisted of pro rata property  (75.8%),  excess property (5.2%),  pro
rata casualty (15.1%) and excess casualty (3.9%).

International business written out of the Company's New Jersey and Miami offices
accounted for $89.9 million of gross  premiums  written in 1999 and consisted of
pro rata treaty  property  (60.3%),  pro rata treaty  casualty  (19.2%),  excess
treaty property  (6.2%),  excess treaty  casualty (8.1%) and excess  facultative
property and casualty (6.2%). Of this international business,  54.0% was sourced
from Latin  America,  23.1% was sourced from the Middle  East,  1.1% was sourced
from Europe,  4.0% was sourced from Africa, 0.7% was sourced from Asia and 17.1%
was "home-foreign" business.

GEOGRAPHIC AREAS
The Company  conducts its business  both in the United States and in a number of
foreign countries.  For select financial information about geographic areas, see
Note 14 of Notes to the Consolidated  Financial  Statements.  Risks attendant to
the foreign  operations of the Company  parallel  those  attendant to the United
States operations of the Company, with the primary exception of foreign exchange
risks. See ITEM 7, "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations - Safe Harbor Disclosure".

UNDERWRITING PROCESS
Everest Re offers ceding companies full service capability, including actuarial,
claims,  accounting and systems  support,  either directly or through the broker
community.  Everest Re's capacity for both property and casualty risks allows it
to underwrite  entire  contracts or major portions  thereof that might otherwise
need to be syndicated among several reinsurers.  Everest Re's strategy is to act
as "lead" reinsurer in many of the reinsurance treaties it underwrites. The lead
reinsurer on a treaty generally accepts one of the largest  percentage shares of
the  treaty  and  is in a  stronger  position  to  negotiate  price,  terms  and
conditions  than is a  reinsurer  which  takes a  smaller  position.  Management
believes this strategy  enables it to more  effectively  influence the terms and
conditions  of the treaties on which it  participates.  When Everest Re does not
lead the  treaty,  it may still  suggest  changes to any  aspect of the  treaty.
Everest Re may decline to  participate  in a treaty based upon its assessment of
all relevant factors.

Everest  Re's treaty  underwriting  process  emphasizes  a team  approach  among
Everest Re's underwriters, actuaries and claims staff. Treaties are reviewed for
compliance with Everest Re's general  underwriting  standards and certain larger
treaties  are  evaluated  in part based upon  actuarial  analyses  conducted  by
Everest Re. The actuarial models used in such analyses are tailored in each case
to the  exposures and  experience  underlying  the specific  treaty and the loss
experience  for  the  risks  covered  by such  treaties.  Everest  Re  does  not
separately  evaluate  each of the  individual  risks assumed under its treaties.
Everest Re does, however,  generally evaluate the underwriting guidelines of its
ceding  companies to determine  their  adequacy prior to entering into a treaty.
Everest Re, when appropriate,  also conducts  underwriting audits at the offices
of ceding  companies  to ensure that the ceding  companies  operate  within such
guidelines.  Underwriting audits focus on the quality of the underwriting staff,
the selection and pricing of risks and the capability of monitoring price levels
over time. Claim audits,  when  appropriate,  are performed in order to evaluate
the client's claims handling abilities and practices.

Everest  Re's  domestic  facultative   underwriters  operate  within  guidelines
specifying  acceptable  types of  risks,  limits  and  maximum  risk  exposures.
Specified classes of risks and large premium risks are referred to the Company's
New  York  facultative   headquarters  for  specific   review   before   premium
quotations  are  given  to clients. In addition, Everest Re's guidelines require


certain  types of risks to be submitted  for review  because of their  aggregate
limits,  complexity  or volatility  regardless of premium  amount or size of the
insured on the underlying contract.

Everest  National and Everest Canada write property,  casualty and  professional
liability coverages for homogeneous risks through select program managers. These
programs are evaluated based upon actuarial  analysis and the program  manager's
capabilities.  The  Company's  rates,  forms  and  underwriting  guidelines  are
tailored to specific risk types.

RISK MANAGEMENT AND RETROCESSION ARRANGEMENTS
Everest Re manages its risk of loss through a combination of aggregate  exposure
limits,  underwriting  guidelines  that  take into  account  risks,  prices  and
coverage, and retrocessional arrangements.

Everest  Re is  exposed  to  multiple  insured  losses  arising  out of a single
occurrence,  whether a natural event,  such as a hurricane or an earthquake,  or
other catastrophe,  such as a riot or an explosion at a major factory.  Any such
catastrophic  event could generate insured losses in one or many of Everest Re's
treaties or lines of business. Everest Re employs various techniques,  including
licensed  software  modeling,  to assess its  accumulated  exposure  to property
catastrophe losses and summarizes that exposure in terms of the probable maximum
loss ("PML").  The Company defines PML as its anticipated  maximum loss,  taking
into account contract limits,  caused by a single catastrophe  affecting a broad
contiguous  geographic area, such as that caused by a hurricane or earthquake of
such a magnitude that it is expected to occur once in every 100 years.

Management  estimates that the Company's greatest catastrophe exposure worldwide
from any single event is to hurricanes and earthquakes in the coastal regions of
the United  States,  where  Everest Re estimates it has a PML  exposure,  before
reinsurance,  of  approximately  $181  million in each such region  based on its
current  book of  business.  Similarly,  management  estimates  that the largest
current  PML  exposure,  before  reinsurance,   outside  the  United  States  is
approximately  $98 million.  There can be no assurance  that Everest Re will not
experience losses from one or more catastrophic events that exceed, perhaps by a
substantial amount, its estimated PML.

Underwriting  guidelines  have been  established  for each business unit.  These
guidelines  place  dollar  limits on the amount of business  that can be written
based on a variety of  factors,  including  ceding  company,  line of  business,
geographical  location and risk hazards.  In each case, those guidelines  permit
limited exceptions, which must be authorized by the Company's senior management.

Everest Re does not typically retrocede individual risks, but does, from time to
time, purchase  retrocessional  protections where the underwriter deems it to be
prudent to reinsure a portion of the  specific  risk being  assumed.  Everest Re
also  participates in "common account"  retrocessional  arrangements for certain
reinsurance treaties.  Common account reinsurance  arrangements are arrangements
whereby  the  ceding  company  purchases  a cover for the  benefit of the ceding
company  and  its   reinsurers  on  a   reinsurance   treaty.   Common   account
retrocessional  arrangements reduce the effect of individual or aggregate losses
to all participating  companies with respect to a reinsurance treaty,  including
the ceding company.

During  1999,   Everest  Re  purchased  a   three-layer   property   facultative
retrocession program which provided coverage of 52.5% of $3 million of losses in
excess of $2 million in retained losses per facultative  certificate and 100% of
$15 million of losses in excess of $5 million of retained losses per facultative
certificate.  For  2000,  this  three-layer  property  facultative  retrocession
program  provides  53.5% of $3  million  of losses in  excess of $2  million  in
retained losses per facultative certificate and 100% of $15 million of losses in
excess of $5 million of  retained  losses per  facultative  certificate.  During
1999, Everest Re purchased three retrocessional  workers' compensation excess of
loss treaties which  collectively  provide coverage of $115 million of losses in
excess of $5 million of retained  losses on accidental  death and  dismemberment
claims resulting from a catastrophe loss. In 2000, these retrocessional workers'
compensation  treaties  provide  coverage  for 50% of $115  million of losses in
excess of $5 million of retained  losses on accidental  death and  dismemberment
claims  resulting  from a  catastrophe  loss.  During  1999,  the  Company  also
purchased  a  workers'  compensation  reinsurance  program  which  provided  for
statutory  limits  coverage in excess of $75,000 of losses per occurrence on the
Company's primary workers'  compensation  insurance  business.  This program has
been continued for 2000.

For 1999,  the Company  also  purchased  reinsurance  covering  certain  primary
insurance  programs  written by the  Company,  including an 85.0% quota share of
primary California  non-standard  automobile business. For the period October 1,
1999  through  October 1, 2000,  the  Company  purchased a 50% quota share of $1
million net  retained  liability  and $4 million  excess $1 million of automatic
property  facultative  protection  covering Texas property and casualty  program
business.

For the period from May 15, 1999 through May 15, 2000, the Company's catastrophe
retrocession  program provides  coverage of 75.0% of $20.0 million of losses per
occurrence in excess of $10.0 million in losses  incurred by the Company outside
of the United  States,  provided that the  Company's net loss per  occurrence is
$15.0  million.  For the period from May 23,  1999  through  May 23,  2000,  the
Company's  catastrophe  retrocession  program provides  coverage of 85% of $20.0
million of losses per  occurrence in excess of $30.0 million in losses  incurred
by the Company outside of the United States.


The Company also purchases a corporate level retrocession covering the potential
accumulation  of all exposures.  During 1999, the Company  purchased an accident
year aggregate excess of loss retrocession agreement which provided up to $175.0
million of coverage if Everest Re's  statutory  basis  accident  year loss ratio
exceeds a loss ratio  attachment  point  provided in the  contract  for the 1999
accident year. This retrocession  responds on an aggregate basis with respect to
both property and casualty  losses,  including those arising from  catastrophes.
The  attachment  point  is net of  inuring  reinsurance  and  retrocessions  and
includes  adjustable  premium  provisions which effectively cause the Company to
offset,  on a pre-tax  income basis,  up to 50% of such ceded losses,  depending
upon the character of the underlying losses,  through additional  premiums.  The
maximum recovery is $175.0 million before giving effect to a maximum  adjustable
premium of $86.3  million.  For 2000,  the Company  purchased  an accident  year
aggregate  excess of loss  retrocession  agreement  which  provides up to $175.0
million of coverage if Everest Re's  statutory  basis  accident  year loss ratio
exceeds a loss ratio  attachment  point  provided in the  contract  for the 2000
accident  year.  The  attachment  point  is  net  of  inuring   reinsurance  and
retrocessions and includes adjustable premium provisions which effectively cause
the  Company to offset,  on a pre-tax  income  basis,  up to 49.2% of such ceded
losses,   depending  upon  the  character  of  the  underlying  losses,  through
additional premiums. The maximum recovery is $175.0 million before giving effect
to a maximum adjustable premium of $85.8 million.

Although the catastrophe and aggregate excess of loss  retrocessions  have terms
which provide for additional premiums to be paid to the  retrocessionaire in the
event that losses are ceded, all aspects of the Company's retrocessional program
have  been  structured  to  permit  these  agreements  to be  accounted  for  as
reinsurance under Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 113.
If a single  catastrophe  were to occur in the United  States  that  resulted in
$181.0 million of gross losses and allocated loss adjustment  expenses  ("ALAE")
in 2000 (an amount  equivalent to Everest Re's PML),  management  estimates that
the effect (including  additional  premiums and retained losses and ALAE) on the
Company's  income  before  taxes would be $91.8  million.  This pre-tax net loss
estimate  assumes  that Everest  Re's  aggregate  losses and ALAE for 2000 would
exceed the threshold  loss ratio  requirement  in the  aggregate  excess of loss
cover by at least $175.0 million.

In addition,  Everest Re continues to have coverage under an aggregate stop loss
retrocession  agreement  (the "Stop Loss  Agreement")  purchased  from Gibraltar
Casualty  Company  ("Gibraltar"),  an affiliate of The Prudential,  in 1995. See
"Relationships with Gibraltar and Stop Loss Agreement" and ITEM 7, "Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations -
Financial Condition".

As of December 31, 1999,  Everest Re had  retrocessional  arrangements  with 428
retrocessionaires,  and it carried  as an asset  $742.5  million in  reinsurance
receivables with respect to losses ceded to retrocessionaires, which, except for
$9.5 million which is due from  Gibraltar in the first quarter of 2000 under the
terms of the Stop Loss Agreement, will not be due to Everest Re until Everest Re
makes payment on the  underlying  claims.  Of this amount,  $345.4  million,  or
46.5%, was receivable from Gibraltar ($80.4 million,  net of collateral held and
liability  balances  for which  Everest Re has a  contractual  right of offset),
including  the $9.5  million due under the Stop Loss  Agreement.  An  additional
$145.0 million,  or 19.5%,  was receivable from  Continental  Insurance  Company
("Continental"). No other retrocessionaire accounted for more than $25.0 million
of Everest Re's receivables.  See ITEM 7, "Management's  Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition".

Everest  Re's  arrangement  with  Continental  is managed on a funds held basis,
which  means  that  Everest  Re  has  not  released   premium  payments  to  the
retrocessionaire  but rather retains such payments to secure  obligations of the
retrocessionaire,  records them as a liability and reduces the liability account
as payments  become due. As of December 31, 1999, such funds had reduced Everest
Re's net exposure to Continental to $80.1 million.

No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to obtain retrocessional
coverage similar to that currently in place in the future.  Although  management
carefully selects its  retrocessionaires,  the Company is subject to credit risk
with   respect   to  its   retrocessions   because   the   ceding   of  risk  to
retrocessionaires  does not relieve the  reinsurer  of its  liability  to ceding
companies.

RELATIONSHIPS WITH GIBRALTAR
During its early years, Everest Re wrote some direct insurance. In 1978, Everest
Re expanded its direct insurance operation by forming Gibraltar as a subsidiary.
In 1985,  Gibraltar  and  Everest  Re  ceased  writing  new and  renewal  direct
insurance.  Gibraltar's  ongoing  operations  relate to servicing claims arising
from the previously written direct insurance and the Stop Loss Agreement.

While Gibraltar actively wrote direct insurance, it was able to reinsure certain
business through Everest Re's management underwriting facility ("MUF"). Begun in
1977,  MUF was a  reinsurance  arrangement  pursuant  to which  Everest Re ceded
certain  business to a number of insurance and  reinsurance  companies (the "MUF
Participants"),  many of them  domiciled  outside the United  States.  Gibraltar
ceded its  MUF-qualifying  business first to Everest Re, which then  immediately
and  entirely  retroceded  it to the MUF  Participants.  As a  result  of  these
cessions to Everest Re, Everest Re became, and remains, a reinsurer of Gibraltar
with respect to the Gibraltar MUF cessions. As of December 31, 1999, Gibraltar's
reinsurance  receivables  from  Everest Re totaled  $155.1  million.  MUF became
inactive with respect to new business in 1991.


Following the 1985 decision to cease writing new and renewal  business,  Everest
Re and  Gibraltar  entered  into  the  following  agreements  pursuant  to which
Gibraltar  became,  and  remains,  a  reinsurer  of Everest  Re (the  "Gibraltar
Contracts"):

o             In 1986, Gibraltar reinsured all insurance  obligations of Everest
              Re pursuant to certain insurance contracts written by Everest Re's
              former direct excess  insurance  operations,  which ceased writing
              business  in 1985 (the  "Ceded  Direct  Insurance")  (the  "Direct
              Excess Retrocession").

o             In 1989,  Gibraltar reinsured Everest Re's medical malpractice and
              other professional liability reinsurance written in 1988 and prior
              years (the "Professional Liability Retrocession").

o             During 1985 through  1990,  Gibraltar  and Everest Re commuted the
              obligations  of a number of MUF  Participants.  In exchange  for a
              cash payment from each commuted MUF Participant, Gibraltar assumed
              the  obligations of such MUF  Participant.  The commuted  business
              included  assumed   reinsurance   originally   retroceded  to  MUF
              Participants  by Everest Re and direct  insurance ceded by Everest
              Re and Gibraltar.

In 1991, Everest Re distributed the stock of Gibraltar to PRUCO, Inc., a direct,
wholly-owned subsidiary of The Prudential ("PRUCO").  Simultaneously,  PRUCO and
Gibraltar  entered  into a surplus  maintenance  agreement  (the "PRUCO  Surplus
Maintenance  Agreement")  pursuant to which PRUCO agreed to purchase such amount
of surplus notes as may be necessary to maintain  Gibraltar's  statutory surplus
at no less than $15 million at all times. PRUCO shortly  thereafter  distributed
the stock of Gibraltar to The Prudential.

The Direct Excess  Retrocession can be terminated by either Gibraltar or Everest
Re upon 90 days' notice,  whereas the  Professional  Liability  Retrocession can
only be  terminated  by Everest Re. A total of $105.6  million of the  Gibraltar
receivables is  attributable  to the Direct Excess  Retrocession.  If the Direct
Excess Retrocession is terminated,  all outstanding  claims,  including incurred
but not  reported  losses  ("IBNR"),  will be  commuted  with the  value of such
claims,  which may not exceed Everest Re's then  outstanding  loss reserves with
respect thereto,  to be mutually agreed upon or, if no agreement can be reached,
determined  by an actuary or appraiser  mutually  appointed.  At the time of the
IPO,  the  parties  agreed  that  if  Gibraltar  terminates  the  Direct  Excess
Retrocession  and the  parties  cannot  agree on the  value of the  claims to be
commuted,  Everest Re's chief actuary will determine such value. Gibraltar could
arbitrate the actuary's determination. If the Direct Excess Retrocession were to
be so terminated and Everest Re's ultimate losses on the Ceded Direct  Insurance
were to exceed the commutation  amount,  the resulting  reserve  increases would
constitute  adverse  development  eligible  for  coverage  under  the Stop  Loss
Agreement (described below), subject to the applicable limits thereof.

STOP LOSS  AGREEMENT.  On October 5, 1995, in connection with the IPO Everest Re
and Gibraltar  entered into the Stop Loss Agreement.  The Stop Loss Agreement is
intended to mitigate  the impact on the  Company's  future  earnings  that could
result  from the  adverse  development,  if any,  of Everest  Re's  consolidated
reserves for losses, allocated LAE and uncollectible  reinsurance as of June 30,
1995,  including  IBNR;  provided,  that  adverse  development,  if any, of such
reserves  relating to catastrophes  (as defined in the Stop Loss Agreement) will
only be covered to the extent that the catastrophe  event to which such reserves
relate  occurred  prior to January 1, 1995.  For a description  of the Stop Loss
Agreement,  see ITEM 7,  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
Condition and Results of Operations - Financial  Condition"  and Note 7 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.

STANDBY CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION AGREEMENT AND PRUCO INDEMNITY.  On October 6, 1995,
Holdings  agreed,  pursuant to a Standby  Capital  Contribution  Agreement  (the
"Capital  Contribution  Agreement"),   to  make  certain  capital  contributions
("Capital  Contributions") to Everest Re. Also, on October 6, 1995, PRUCO agreed
to make payments  ("Indemnity  Payments") to Holdings,  pursuant to an Indemnity
Agreement  (the  "PRUCO   Indemnity"),   in  an  amount  equal  to  the  Capital
Contributions.

PRUDENTIAL  GUARANTEES.  On October 6, 1995, The Prudential guaranteed (i) up to
$775.0  million  of  Gibraltar's  obligations  to Everest  Re, and (ii)  PRUCO's
obligation to make the Indemnity  Payments (the  "Prudential  Guarantees").  The
Prudential  agreed,  subject to the terms and conditions  thereof,  to guarantee
Gibraltar's  (i) payment  obligations  with respect to the Stop Loss  Agreement,
subject  to maximum  aggregate  payments  of $375.0  million,  and (ii)  payment
obligations under the Gibraltar Contracts, subject to maximum aggregate payments
of $400.0 million. The maximum aggregate payments under the Prudential Guarantee
of  Gibraltar's  obligations  will be reduced in certain  circumstances  to take
account of payments made and  collateral  provided in respect of the  guaranteed
obligations.  See ITEM 7,  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition".

As of December 31, 1999, based on publicly available information, The Prudential
had statutory  basis total assets of $191.5  billion,  and statutory  surplus of
$9.2 billion.


ACQUISITION  OF  GIBRALTAR.  On February  24,  2000,  Holdings  entered  into an
agreement  with The  Prudential  to acquire  all of the  issued and  outstanding
shares of Gibraltar.  Upon the closing of this acquisition,  which is subject to
customary closing conditions and the receipt of regulatory approvals:

o             Everest Re's  current  reinsurance  contracts,  including the Stop
              Loss Agreement,  will remain in effect.  However, these  contracts
              will  become  transactions  with  affiliates  with  the  financial
              impact eliminated through inter-company accounts.

o             The Prudential  Guarantees  will be terminated and Prudential will
              be released from its obligations.

o             The PRUCO Surplus Maintenance Agreement will be terminated.

o             The PRUCO Indemnity will be terminated  and PRUCO will be released
              from its obligations.

See Note 15C of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

CLAIMS
Claims  are  managed  by  the   Company's   professional   claims   staff  whose
responsibilities  include  reviewing  initial loss reports and coverage  issues,
monitoring  claims handling  activities of ceding  companies,  establishing  and
adjusting proper case reserves and approving  payment of claims.  In addition to
claims assessment, processing and payment, the claims staff selectively conducts
comprehensive   claims  audits  of  both  specific  claims  and  overall  claims
procedures  at the  offices of selected  ceding  companies.  In most  instances,
primary  insurance  claims are handled by third party claims services  providers
who have  limited  authorities  and are subject to  oversight  by the  Company's
professional claims staff.

RESERVES FOR UNPAID LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
Significant  periods of time may elapse  between  the  occurrence  of an insured
loss,  the reporting of the loss to the ceding company and the reinsurer and the
ceding  company's  payment of that loss and  subsequent  payments  to the ceding
company by the reinsurer.  To recognize  liabilities  for unpaid losses and LAE,
insurers and reinsurers establish reserves,  which are balance sheet liabilities
representing  estimates of future  amounts needed to pay reported and unreported
claims and related expenses on losses that have already occurred.  Actual losses
and LAE paid may deviate,  perhaps  substantially,  from such  reserves.  To the
extent  reserves prove to be  insufficient  to cover actual losses and LAE after
taking into account available retrocessional coverage, including the reinsurance
provided through the Stop Loss Agreement,  Everest Re would have to augment such
reserves  and incur a charge to  earnings  which could be material in the period
such augmentation takes place. See ITEM 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Loss and LAE Reserves".

While  the  reserving  process  is  difficult  and  subjective  for  the  ceding
companies,  the inherent  uncertainties  of  estimating  such  reserves are even
greater for the reinsurer,  due primarily to the longer time between the date of
an occurrence and the reporting of any attendant  claims to the  reinsurer,  the
diversity of development  patterns among different types of reinsurance treaties
or facultative  contracts,  the necessary  reliance on the ceding  companies for
information  regarding reported claims and differing  reserving  practices among
ceding  companies.  In  addition,  trends  that  have  affected  development  of
liabilities  in  the  past  may  not  necessarily   occur  or  affect  liability
development  to the same degree in the future.  Thus,  actual losses and LAE may
deviate,  perhaps  substantially,  from  estimates of reserves  reflected in the
Company's consolidated financial statements.

Like many other  property  and casualty  insurance  and  reinsurance  companies,
Everest Re has  experienced  adverse loss  development for prior accident years,
which has led to  adjustments  in losses and LAE  reserves.  The increase in net
reserves for prior  accident  years  reduced net income for the periods in which
the adjustments  were made.  There can be no assurance that adverse  development
from  prior  years  will  not  continue  in the  future  or  that  such  adverse
development  will not have a  material  adverse  effect on net  income.  Adverse
Development  will be reinsured under the Stop Loss Agreement,  up to the maximum
limits  thereunder  and subject to the other terms and conditions  thereof.  See
"Relationships with Gibraltar - Stop Loss Agreement".

CHANGES IN HISTORICAL RESERVES
The following table shows changes in historical loss reserves for Everest Re for
1989 and  subsequent  years.  The table is presented on a GAAP basis except that
the Company's loss reserves for its Canadian branch  operations are presented in
local currency, Canadian dollars. The impact of this presentation, as summarized
in the  "Reconciliation  of Reserves for Losses and LAE from Statutory  Basis to
GAAP Basis" (see page 14), is not material. The top line of each table shows the
estimated  reserves for unpaid  losses and LAE recorded at each  year-end  date.
Each amount in the top line  represents the estimated  amount of future payments
for losses and LAE on claims  occurring in that year and in all prior years. The
upper (paid) portion of the table  presents the cumulative  amounts paid through
each  subsequent  year  on  those  claims  for  which  reserves  were carried as
of  each  specific  year  end.   The  lower  (liability  re-estimated)   portion
shows  the  re-estimated  amount  of  the previously  recorded reserves based on
experience  as  of  the  end of each  succeeding  year. The estimate  changes as
more   information  becomes  known  about  the  actual  claims  for  which   the
initial   reserves   were   carried.   The    cumulative   redundancy/deficiency


line represents the cumulative change in estimates since the initial reserve was
established.  It is equal to the latest liability  re-estimated  amount less the
initial reserve.

Each amount other than the original  reserves in the top half of the table below
includes the effects of all changes in amounts for prior  periods.  For example,
if a loss settled in 1992 for $100,000 was first reserved in 1989 at $60,000 and
remained  unchanged until settlement,  the $40,000 deficiency (actual loss minus
original estimate) would be included in the cumulative  redundancy  (deficiency)
in each of the years in the period 1989 through 1991 shown below. Conditions and
trends  that  have  affected  development  of  liability  in the  past  may  not
necessarily  occur in the  future.  Accordingly,  it may not be  appropriate  to
extrapolate future redundancies or deficiencies based on this table.


- ----------
(1)  Includes Gibraltar data through September 30, 1991
(2)  The Canadian Branch reserves are reflected in Canadian dollars.


For years  prior to 1989,  management  believes  that two  factors  had the most
significant impact on loss development.  First, through the mid-1980's, a number
of industry  and external  factors,  such as the  propensity  of courts to award
large damage awards in liability cases,  combined to increase loss frequency and
severity to unexpectedly  high levels.  Second,  contracts written prior to 1986
contained coverage terms which, for Everest Re and the industry in general, have
been  interpreted by courts to provide  coverage for asbestos and  environmental
exposures not contemplated by either the pricing or the initial reserving of the
contracts.  Legal  developments  during the mid-1980's  necessitated  additional
reserving for such exposures on both a case and IBNR basis.  Net incurred losses
with respect to asbestos and environmental  claims, net of reinsurance,  were $0
million,  $15.4 million,  $3.5, $0 and $0 million in 1999,  1998, 1997, 1996 and
1995,  respectively.  Substantially  all of these  losses  related  to  pre-1986
exposures.  The absence of net incurred  losses in 1996 and 1995 is attributable
to coverage under the Stop Loss  Agreement.  The net incurred losses in 1998 and
1997 reflected coinsurance under the Stop Loss Agreement.

To the extent loss reserves on assumed reinsurance need to be increased, Everest
Re would be  entitled  to  payments  consistent  with the terms of the Stop Loss
Agreement.   See   "Relationships   with  Gibraltar  -  Stop  Loss   Agreement".
Additionally,  Holdings  may be  required  to make  payments  under the  Capital
Contribution  Agreement for which it would be entitled to indemnification  under
the PRUCO  Indemnity.  See  "Relationships  with  Gibraltar  -  Standby  Capital
Contribution Agreement and PRUCO Indemnity".  To the extent loss reserves on the
Ceded  Direct  Insurance  need to be  increased  and subject to the terms of the
Gibraltar  Contracts,  Everest  Re will be  entitled  to  100%  protection  from
Gibraltar  under the Gibraltar  Contracts,  which  reinsurance  obligations  are
guaranteed  by  The  Prudential  subject  to the  terms  and  conditions  of the
applicable Prudential Guarantee.  See "Relationships with Gibraltar - Prudential
Guarantees".  Management  believes  that  adequate  provision  has been made for
Everest Re's loss and LAE reserves  regardless of the  availability  of any such
payments under the Stop Loss Agreement,  the PRUCO Indemnity, and the Prudential
Guarantees.  Additionally, while there can be no assurance that reserves for and
losses from these  claims will not increase in the future,  management  believes
that Everest Re's existing reserves and retrocessional  arrangements  lessen the
probability  that such  increases  would have a material  adverse  effect on the
Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

The Ten Year GAAP Loss Development Table includes Gibraltar data until September
30, 1991, at which time Everest Re distributed  the stock of Gibraltar to PRUCO.
Thus the  1989-1990  "Reserves  for unpaid loss and LAE"  includes the Gibraltar
liability.  Similarly, the "Paid (cumulative) as of" and "Liability re-estimated
as of" data include  Gibraltar  experience until September 30, 1991. At the time
of the distribution of Gibraltar, Gibraltar still had $288.5 million of reserves
outstanding.  To more  accurately  reflect  reserve  development,  the Gibraltar
reserves  were  removed  from the  reserves  for unpaid  losses and LAE line for
periods after 1991 and the $288.5 million was treated as a paid loss. The amount
so treated as paid in 1991 was $288.5 million for each of the years 1989 through
1990. The  cumulative  reserve  (deficiency)  relating to Gibraltar for 1989 was
($98.1)  million  and for 1990  was  ($30.0)  million.  The  cumulative  reserve
(deficiency)  relating to Everest Re excluding  Gibraltar  for 1989 was ($380.4)
million and for 1990 was ($321.0) million.

The  following  table is derived from the Ten Year GAAP Loss  Development  Table
above and summarizes the effect of reserve re-estimates,  net of reinsurance, on
calendar year  operations  for the same ten year period ended December 31, 1999.
Each column represents the amount of reserve  re-estimates made in the indicated
calendar  year and  shows  the  accident  years to which  the  re-estimates  are
applicable.  The  amounts  in the total  accident  year  column on the far right
represent the cumulative reserve re-estimates for the indicated accident years.



As illustrated by this table, the factors which caused the deficiencies shown in
the Ten Year GAAP Loss  Development  Table  relate  almost  entirely to accident
years  prior  to  1990  principally   reflecting  the  impact  of  asbestos  and
environmental  exposures discussed above. The significant  favorable development
experienced for the 1995 accident year is due to recoveries  under the Stop Loss
Agreement.  This contract,  because of its 1995 inception date, is attributed to
the 1995 accident year. Aggregate historical development excluding the impact of
these two unusual items is not material.

The following  table presents a  reconciliation  of beginning and ending reserve
balances for the years indicated on a GAAP basis:


The  reconciliation  of  reserves  on a GAAP  basis to  reserves  reported  on a
statutory  basis for each of the three years in the period  ended  December  31,
1999 is shown below:

- --------------------
(1)  On  January  1, 1997, the insurance  operations  of  Everest  Re Ltd.  were
     converted  to  branches  of Everest  Re. For 1999,  1998 and 1997,  the net
     reserves for the branches are included in statutory net reserves. For 1999,
     1998 and  1997,  the  foreign  subsidiary  reserve  amounts  represent  the
     reserves for Everest Canada.
(2)  Pursuant to statutory accounting conventions,  reserves with respect to the
     Canadian Branch are reflected in Canadian dollars.


RESERVES FOR ASBESTOS AND ENVIRONMENTAL LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES
Everest Re's reserves include an estimate of Everest Re's ultimate liability for
asbestos and  environmental  claims for which ultimate value cannot be estimated
using traditional reserving techniques.  There are significant  uncertainties in
estimating  the  amount of Everest  Re's  potential  losses  from  asbestos  and
environmental  claims.  See ITEM 7,  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of
Financial  Condition  and Results of  Operations  -- Asbestos and  Environmental
Exposures" and Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The following  table  summarizes the  composition of Everest Re's total reserves
for asbestos and  environmental  losses,  gross and net of  reinsurance  for the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.


Everest Re's  asbestos and  environmental  claims are managed by an  experienced
staff consisting of eight people. This claims unit works closely with members of
Everest Re's in-house  legal staff on legal  developments.  The claims unit also
meets with the  management of primary  insurance  companies to understand  their
asbestos and environmental exposures and reserving practices.

Additional  losses,  the type or  magnitude  of which  cannot be foreseen by the
Company, or the reinsurance and insurance industry generally,  may emerge in the
future.   Such  future  emergence,   to  the  extent  not  covered  by  existing
retrocessional contracts, including the Stop Loss Agreement, could have material
adverse  effects  on  the  Company's  future  financial  condition,  results  of
operations and cash flows.

INVESTMENTS
Everest Re's overall financial  strength and results of operations are, in part,
dependent  on the quality  and  performance  of its  investment  portfolio.  Net
investment  income and net  realized  capital  gains  (losses)  on Everest  Re's
invested assets constituted 18.1%, 18.6% and 18.8% of the Company's revenues for
the years ending December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  The Company's
cash and invested assets totaled  $4,139.2 million at December 31, 1999 of which
92.7% were cash or investment grade fixed maturities.

Everest Re's current  investment  strategy  seeks to maximize  after-tax  income
through a high quality, diversified,  taxable bond and tax-exempt fixed maturity
portfolio, while maintaining an adequate level of liquidity. Everest Re's mix of
taxable and  tax-preferenced  investments is adjusted  continuously,  consistent
with Everest Re's current and projected operating results, market conditions and
tax position.  Additionally,  Everest Re invests in marketable equity securities
which it believes will enhance the risk-adjusted  total return of the investment
portfolio.

The Investment  Committee of Everest Re's Board of Directors is responsible  for
establishing   investment  policy  and  guidelines  and,  together  with  senior
management, for overseeing their execution. Everest Re's investment portfolio is
in compliance with the insurance laws of the state of Delaware,  its domiciliary
state, and of other jurisdictions in which it is regulated. These laws prescribe
the  kind,  quality  and  concentration  of  investments  which  may be  made by
insurance companies. In general, these laws permit investments, within specified
limits  and  subject  to  certain  qualifications,  in  government  obligations,
corporate  bonds,  preferred and common stocks,  real estate  mortgages and real
estate.  An independent  investment  advisor is utilized to manage the Company's
investment portfolio within the established guidelines and is required to report
activities  on a  current  basis and to meet with the  Company  periodically  to
review and discuss the portfolio structure, securities selection and performance
results.

Everest Re's investment  guidelines include a current duration guideline of five
to six years.  The  duration of an  investment  is based on the  maturity of the
security but also reflects the payment of interest and the  possibility of early
prepayment of such security.  This investment  duration guideline is established
and periodically revised by management considering economic and business factors
including  Everest Re's  average  duration of potential  liabilities  which,  at
December 31, 1999, was  approximately  five years based on the estimated payouts
of underwriting liabilities using standard duration calculations.


Approximately 8.4% of the Company's consolidated reserves for losses and LAE and
unearned premiums  represents  estimated amounts payable in foreign  currencies.
For each currency in which the Company has established substantial reserves, the
Company seeks to maintain  invested  assets  denominated  in such currency in an
amount  comparable to the estimated  liabilities  which are  denominated in such
currency.

As of December 31, 1999,  97.1% of Everest Re's total  investments and cash were
comprised of fixed maturity  investments or cash and 95.2% of Everest Re's fixed
maturities  consisted of investment  grade  securities.  The average maturity of
fixed  maturities was 8.3 years at December 31, 1999, and their overall duration
was 5.8 years.  As of December  31,  1999,  Everest Re did not have any material
holdings  of  issuers  who  management   believes  are  experiencing  cash  flow
difficulty  to an extent that the  ability of the  obligor to meet debt  service
payments is threatened or any  investments  in commercial  real estate or direct
commercial mortgages.  Also,  investments in derivative products (i.e., products
which  include  features  such as futures,  forwards,  swaps,  options and other
investments with similar characteristics) are generally prohibited,  without the
prior approval of Everest Re's Investment  Committee.  At December 31, 1999, the
Company had no investments in derivative products.

As of December 31, 1999, the common stock  portfolio was $90.7 million at market
value,  comprising  2.2% of total  investments  and cash and is  managed  with a
growth and income  orientation  consisting  primarily of investments in dividend
paying mid and large capitalization companies.

The following table reflects  investment  results for Everest Re for each of the
five years in the period ended December 31, 1999:


- -----------------
(1)   Average of the beginning and ending  carrying  values of  investments  and
      cash, less net funds held and  non-interest  bearing cash.  Bonds,  common
      stock and redeemable and  non-redeemable  preferred  stocks are carried at
      market value.
(2)  After investment expenses, excluding realized net capital gains (losses).

The  following  table  summarizes  fixed  maturities as of December 31, 1999 and
1998:



The following  table  presents the credit quality  distribution  by the National
Association  of Insurance  Commissioners  ("NAIC")  rating of Everest Re's fixed
maturities as of December 31, 1999:


- --------------
(1)   The Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC maintains a security valuation
      system  that  assigns a  numerical  rating to  securities.  The  numerical
      ratings  generally  correspond  to  Standard & Poor's classifications,  as
      indicated,  although  Standard  &  Poor's  has  not  necessarily rated the
      securities indicated.  Rating categories 1 and 2 are considered investment
      grade and categories 3 through 6 are considered non-investment grade.

The following table summarizes  fixed  maturities by contractual  maturity as of
December 31, 1999:

- ------------
(1)    Mortgage-backed  securities  generally are more likely to be prepaid than
       other fixed  maturities.  Therefore, contractual  maturities are excluded
       from this table since they may not be indicative of actual maturities.
(2)    Certain totals may not reconcile due to rounding.

RATINGS
Everest  Re  currently  has a rating of "A+"  ("Superior")  from A.M.  Best,  an
independent  insurance  industry  rating  organization  which rates companies on
factors of concern to policyholders. A.M. Best states that the "A+" ("Superior")
rating is assigned to those companies  which, in its opinion,  have, on balance,
achieved superior financial strength,  operating  performance and market profile
when compared to the standards  established by A.M. Best and have demonstrated a
very strong ability to meet their ongoing obligations to policyholders. The "A+"
("Superior")  rating is the second highest of fifteen  ratings  assigned by A.M.
Best, which range from "A++" ("Superior") to "F" (In liquidation). Additionally,
A.M. Best has eleven classifications within the "Not Assigned" category.

Everest Re currently has a  claims-paying  ability rating of "AA-" (Very Strong)
from  Standard & Poor's,  an  independent  rating  organization  which  rates an
insurance  company's financial capacity to meet the obligations of its insurance
policies in accordance with their terms. Standard & Poor's states that the "AA-"
rating is assigned to those  companies  which,  in its opinion,  offer excellent
financial security and whose capacity to meet policyholder obligations is strong
under a variety of economic and underwriting conditions. The "AA-" rating is the
fourth highest of nineteen  ratings  assigned by Standard & Poor's,  which range
from "AAA"  (Superior) to "R" (Regulatory  Action).  Ratings from AA to B may be
modified  by the use of a plus or minus sign to show  relative  standing  of the
insurer within those rating categories.

Everest Re currently has an insurance  financial  strength rating of "A1" (Good)
from  Moody's.  Moody's  states that  insurance  companies  rated "A" offer good
financial   security.   However,   elements  may  be  present  which  suggest  a
susceptibility to impairment  sometime in the future.  Moody's rating gradations
are shown through the use of nine distinct symbols,  each symbol  representing a
group of ratings in which the financial  security is broadly the same.  The "A1"
(Good) rating is the fifth highest of ratings  assigned by Moody's,  which range
from "Aaa"  (Exceptional)  to "C" (Lowest).  Moody's further  distinguishes  the
ranking of an insurer within its generic rating classification from Aa to B with
1, 2 and 3 ("1" being the highest).


Everest  National is currently  rated "A+"  ("Superior")  by A.M. Best and "AA-"
(Very Strong) by Standard & Poor's based on its affiliation with Everest Re.

The foregoing  A.M. Best,  Standard & Poor's and Moody's  ratings are based upon
factors of concern to  policyholders  and should not be considered an indication
of the degree or lack of risk  involved in an equity  investment in an insurance
company.

Holdings'  senior notes due March 15, 2005 and March 15, 2010 have the following
investment grade ratings:  "A-" from Standard & Poor's,  "A3" from Moody's,  and
"a"  from  A.M.   Best.   Debt   ratings  are  a  current   assessment   of  the
credit-worthiness of an obligor with respect to a specific obligation. A company
with a debt rating of "A-" is  considered  by Standard & Poor's to have a strong
capacity to pay  interest  and repay  principal,  although  it is somewhat  more
susceptible  to the adverse  effects of changes in  circumstances  and  economic
conditions than debt in higher rated categories. The "A-" rating from Standard &
Poor's is the seventh highest of 24 ratings assigned by Standard & Poor's, which
range from "AAA" to "D". A company with a debt rating of "A3" is  considered  to
be an upper-medium-grade  obligation by Moody's. This rating represents adequate
capacity with respect to repayment of principal  and interest,  but elements may
be present which suggest a susceptibility to impairment  sometime in the future.
The "A3" rating is the seventh  highest of 21 ratings  assigned by Moody's which
range from "AAA" to "C". A company  with a debt rating of "a" is  considered  by
A.M.  Best to have a strong  capacity and  willingness  to meet the terms of the
obligation and possesses a low level of credit risk. The "a" rating is the sixth
highest of 19 ratings assigned by A.M. Best, which range from "aaa" to "ccc".

All of the  above-mentioned  ratings are continually  monitored and revised,  if
necessary, by each of the rating agencies.

COMPETITION
The worldwide  property and casualty  reinsurance  and insurance  businesses are
highly  competitive and have experienced  severe price competition and expanding
terms and conditions  over the last several years.  Competition  with respect to
the types of reinsurance and insurance  business in which the Company is engaged
is based on many factors,  including the perceived overall financial strength of
the reinsurer or insurer,  A.M.  Best's  and/or  Standard & Poor's rating of the
reinsurer  or  insurer,  underwriting  expertise,  the  jurisdictions  where the
reinsurer  or insurer is licensed or  otherwise  authorized,  premiums  charged,
other terms and conditions of the  reinsurance and insurance  business  offered,
services offered, speed of claims payment and reputation and experience in lines
written.

The Company  competes in the United  States and  international  reinsurance  and
insurance  markets with  numerous  international  and domestic  reinsurance  and
insurance business  companies.  The Company's  competitors  include  independent
reinsurance  companies,  subsidiaries  or  affiliates of  established  worldwide
insurance  companies,  reinsurance  departments  of  certain  primary  insurance
companies  and domestic and  international  underwriting  operations,  including
underwriting  syndicates in Lloyd's of London.  Some of these  competitors  have
greater  financial  resources  than the Company,  have been operating for longer
than the  Company,  and  have  established  long-term  and  continuing  business
relationships  throughout the industry,  which can be a significant  competitive
advantage.  In addition,  the Company expects to face further competition in the
future.

Since 1987, the worldwide  reinsurance and insurance industries have experienced
increased  global  competition.  Competition  has  increased  as a result of the
consolidation  of  reinsurance  companies,  the  formation  of  new  reinsurance
companies,  including  several well  capitalized  Bermuda-based  companies which
operate within a  tax-advantaged  jurisdiction,  and generally  greater  capital
levels  maintained by  reinsurance  companies  resulting  from earnings  growth,
investment  gains,  mergers and other  factors.  Lloyd's of London also has made
several  operational  changes that have  increased the  reinsurance  capacity at
Lloyd's and enhanced its competitive  position.  In addition,  the potential for
securitization  of reinsurance  and insurance  risks through the capital markets
provide an additional source of reinsurance and insurance capacity.  During this
same period,  the demand for reinsurance by primary  insurers has been adversely
affected  by several  factors,  including  consolidation  of  primary  insurers,
increased primary insurer capital levels and continued access to capital markets
and increases in primary insurer's net retention levels.

Management believes that the factors noted above which affect the demand for and
supply of reinsurance  and insurance have resulted in  increasingly  competitive
market  conditions and have influenced the continuing  pressure on insurance and
reinsurance  rates and the  expansion  of contract  terms in the current  market
place. The Company also believes that the reinsurance and insurance  industries,
including  reinsurance brokers,  will continue to undergo further  consolidation
and that reinsurers will need significant size,  financial  strength and service
capabilities to compete effectively.


Employees
As of March 1, 2000, the Company  employed 404 persons,  including 25 persons in
Southeastern Security,  which was acquired in January, 2000. Management believes
that its  employee  relations  are good.  None of the  Company's  employees  are
subject to collective bargaining agreements, and the Company is not aware of any
current efforts to implement such agreements at Everest Re.

INFORMATION RELATING TO DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS
Financial  information  relating to  geographic  areas of operation set forth in
Note  14 of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  of the  Company  is
incorporated herein by reference.

REGULATORY MATTERS
The Company and its insurer  subsidiaries  are subject to  regulation  under the
insurance statutes of the various  jurisdictions in which they conduct business,
including  essentially  all  states of the  United  States,  Canada,  Hong Kong,
Singapore,  the  United  Kingdom,  and  Bermuda.  These  regulations  vary  from
jurisdiction  to  jurisdiction  and are  generally  designed  to protect  ceding
insurance  companies and  policyholders  by regulating  the Company's  financial
integrity  and  ability  to  meet  its  obligations  relating  to  its  business
transactions  and operations.  Many of these  regulations  require  reporting of
information  designed  to allow  insurance  regulators  to closely  monitor  the
Company's performance.

INSURANCE  HOLDING COMPANY  REGULATION.  Under applicable United States laws and
regulations,  no person,  corporation  or other entity may acquire a controlling
interest in the Company, unless such person,  corporation or entity has obtained
the prior  approval for such  acquisition  from the Insurance  Commissioners  of
Delaware and the other states in which the Company's insurance  subsidiaries are
domiciled,  currently  Arizona  and  Georgia.  Under these  laws,  "control"  is
presumed when any person  acquires,  directly or indirectly,  10% or more of the
voting  securities of an insurance  company.  To obtain the approval of any such
change in control,  the  proposed  acquirer  must file an  application  with the
relevant insurance commissioner disclosing, amongst other things, the acquirer's
background  and that of its  directors and officers,  the  acquirer's  financial
condition,  and its proposed  changes in the  management  and  operations of the
insurance company. U.S. state regulators also require prior notice or regulatory
approval of certain  material  inter-affiliate  transactions  within the holding
company structure. See "Dividends".

The  Insurance  Companies  Act of Canada  also  requires  prior  approval by the
Minister of Finance of anyone acquiring a significant  interest in an authorized
Canadian insurance company. In addition, the Company is subject to regulation by
the insurance  regulators of other states and foreign  jurisdictions in which it
does  business.  Certain  of  these  states  and  foreign  jurisdictions  impose
regulations  regulating  the  ability  of any  person to  acquire  control of an
insurance  company  authorized  to do  business  in  that  jurisdiction  without
appropriate regulatory approval similar to those described above.

DIVIDENDS. Under Bermuda law, the Company is prohibited from declaring or paying
a dividend if such payment would reduce the realizable value of its assets to an
amount less than the  aggregate  value of its  liabilities  and its issued share
capital and share premium (additional  paid-in capital) accounts.  The Company's
ability to pay dividends and its operating  expenses is dependent upon dividends
from its subsidiaries.  The payment of such dividends by insurer subsidiaries is
limited  under  Bermuda  and the  United  States  laws in  which  the  Company's
insurance and reinsurance  subsidiaries are licensed to transact  business.  The
limitations  are generally  based upon net income and compliance with applicable
policyholders'   surplus  or  minimum   solvency   margin  and  liquidity  ratio
requirements as determined in accordance with the relevant statutory  accounting
practices.  As Holdings has outstanding debt  obligations,  it is dependent upon
dividends and other  permissible  payments from Everest Re to enable Holdings to
meet its debt and  operating  expense  obligations  and to pay  dividends to the
Company.

The payment of  dividends  to  Holdings by Everest Re is subject to  limitations
imposed by Delaware law. Generally, Everest Re may only pay dividends out of its
statutory  earned  surplus,  which was $774.6  million at December 31, 1999, and
only  after  it has  given  10  days  prior  notice  to the  Delaware  Insurance
Commissioner.  During this 10-day period,  the Commissioner may, by order, limit
or disallow  the payment of ordinary  dividends  if the  Commissioner  finds the
insurer to be  presently or  potentially  in financial  distress.  Further,  the
maximum  amount of dividends  that may be paid without the prior approval of the
Delaware Insurance Commissioner in any twelve month period is the greater of (i)
10% of an insurer's  statutory  surplus as of the end of the prior calendar year
or (ii) the insurer's  statutory  net income,  not  including  realized  capital
gains, for the prior calendar year.  Under this  definition,  the maximum amount
that will be  available  for the  payment  of  dividends  by  Everest Re in 2000
without triggering the requirement for prior approval of regulatory  authorities
in connection with a dividend is $166.5 million.


Under Bermuda law, Bermuda Re is unable to declare or pay a dividend if it fails
to meet its minimum  solvency  margin or minimum  liquidity  ratio,  or if after
payment of the dividend, it fails to meet its minimum solvency margin or minimum
liquidity ratio. As a long-term insurer, Bermuda Re is also unable to declare or
pay a dividend to anyone who is not a policyholder  unless, after payment of the
dividend,  the value of the assets in its long-term  business fund, as certified
by its approved  actuary,  exceeds its liabilities for long-term  business by at
least the  $250,000  minimum  solvency  margin.  Prior  approval  of the Bermuda
Minister of Finance is required if Bermuda Re's dividend  payments  would reduce
its prior year-end total statutory capital by 15.0% or more.

INSURANCE  REGULATION.  U.S. domestic property and casualty insurers,  including
reinsurers,  are subject to  regulation  by their state of domicile and by those
states in which they are  licensed.  The  regulation  of reinsurers is typically
related to the  reinsurer's  financial  condition,  investments,  management and
operation.  The rates and policy terms of reinsurance  agreements  generally are
not subject to direct regulation by any governmental authority.

The  operations  of Everest Re's foreign  branch  offices in Canada,  Hong Kong,
Singapore  and the United  Kingdom are subject to  regulation  by the  insurance
regulatory  officials  of  those  jurisdictions.  Management  believes  that the
Company  is  in  material   compliance  with  applicable  laws  and  regulations
pertaining to its business and operations.

Bermuda Re is not admitted to do business as an insurer in any  jurisdiction  in
the U.S. Bermuda Re conducts its insurance business from its offices in Bermuda.

In Bermuda,  Bermuda Re is regulated by the  Insurance Act 1978 (as amended) and
related  regulations  (the "Act").  The Act  establishes  solvency and liquidity
standards,  auditing and reporting  requirements  and subjects Bermuda Re to the
supervision,  investigation and intervention  powers of the Minister of Finance.
Under the Act,  Bermuda Re, as a Class 4 insurer,  is required to maintain  $100
million  in  statutory  capital  and  surplus,  to have an  independent  auditor
approved by the  Minister of Finance  conduct an annual  audit and report on its
statutory  financial  statements  and  filings,  and to have an  appointed  loss
reserve  specialist (also approved by the Minister of Finance) review and report
on its loss reserves annually.

Bermuda  Re is also  registered  under  the Act as a  long-term  insurer  and is
thereby  authorized to write life and annuity business.  As a long-term insurer,
Bermuda Re is  required to maintain a long-term  business  fund,  to  separately
account for this business and to have an approved  actuary prepare a certificate
concerning its long-term business assets and liabilities to be filed annually.

Everest Canada,  Everest Indemnity,  Everest National and Southeastern  Security
are subject to regulation similar to the U.S. domestic regulation  applicable to
Everest Re. In addition,  Everest National and Southeastern Security must comply
with  substantial  regulatory  requirements  in each state  where  they  conduct
business.  These additional  requirements  include, but are not limited to, rate
and policy  form  requirements,  requirements  with regard to  licensing,  agent
appointments,  participation in residual markets and claims handling procedures.
These regulations are primarily designed for the protection of policyholders.

LICENSES.  Everest  Re  is a  licensed  property  and  casualty  insurer  and/or
reinsurer in all states  (except  Nevada and Wyoming),  the District of Columbia
and Puerto Rico. In New  Hampshire  and Puerto Rico,  Everest Re is licensed for
reinsurance only. Such licensing enables U.S. domestic ceding company clients to
take credit for reinsurance ceded to Everest Re.

Everest Re is licensed as a property  and casualty  reinsurer  in Canada.  It is
also authorized to conduct reinsurance business in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong
and Singapore. Everest Re can also write reinsurance in other foreign countries.
Because  some  jurisdictions  require a reinsurer  to register in order to be an
acceptable  market for local  insurers,  Everest Re is  registered  as a foreign
insurer and/or reinsurer in the following countries:  Argentina, Bolivia, Chile,
Colombia,  Ecuador,  El Salvador,  Guatemala,  Mexico,  Peru,  Venezuela and the
Philippines.  Everest  National  is  licensed  in 42 states and the  District of
Columbia.  Everest  Indemnity  is licensed in Delaware  and is eligible to write
insurance  on a surplus  lines basis in 39 states,  the District of Columbia and
Puerto Rico.  Southeastern  Security is licensed in Georgia.  Everest  Canada is
federally  licensed under the Insurance  Companies Act of Canada and licensed in
all Canadian  provinces and  territories.  Bermuda Re is registered as a Class 4
insurer and a long-term insurer in Bermuda.


PERIODIC  EXAMINATIONS.  Everest Re,  Everest  National,  Everest  Indemnity and
Southeastern  Security  are subject to  periodic  examination  (usually  every 3
years) of their affairs by the insurance departments of the states in which they
are licensed,  authorized or accredited.  Everest Re's,  Everest  National's and
Everest  Indemnity's last examination reports were as of December 31, 1997. None
of these reports contained any material recommendations. Southeastern Security's
last  examination  report was as of December  31, 1997.  The Company  intends to
comply with the recommendations noted therein.

NAIC RISK-BASED CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS. The U.S. National Association of Insurance
Commissioners ("NAIC") has instituted a formula to measure the amount of capital
appropriate for a property and casualty insurance company to support its overall
business operations in light of its size and risk profile.  The major categories
of a company's risk profile are its asset risk,  credit risk,  and  underwriting
risk. The standards are an effort by the NAIC to prevent  insolvencies,  to ward
off other  financial  difficulties  of  insurance  companies,  and to  establish
uniform regulatory standards among state insurance departments.

Under the approved  formula,  a company's  statutory  surplus is compared to its
risk  based  capital  ("RBC").  If this ratio is above a minimum  threshold,  no
action is necessary.  Below this  threshold  are four distinct  action levels at
which a regulator  can intervene  with  increasing  degrees of authority  over a
domestic  insurer  as the  ratio  of  surplus  to  RBC  decreases.  The  mildest
intervention  requires  the company to submit a plan of  appropriate  corrective
actions.  The most severe  action  requires the company to be  rehabilitated  or
liquidated.

Based  upon  Everest  Re's,   Everest   National's,   Everest   Indemnity's  and
Southeastern  Security's  financial  positions at December 31, 1999, Everest Re,
Everest National, Everest Indemnity and Southeastern Security exceed the minimum
thresholds. Various proposals to change the RBC formula arise from time to time.
The Company is unable to predict whether any such proposal will be adopted,  the
form in which any such  proposals  would be adopted or the effect,  if any,  the
adoption of any such  proposal or change in the RBC  calculations  would have on
the Company.

CODIFICATION  OF  STATUTORY  ACCOUNTING  PRINCIPLES.  The  NAIC  has  drafted  a
codification of statutory accounting  principles,  which a number of states have
adopted with an effective  date of January 1, 2001. The Company has reviewed the
codification  principles,  is  taking  steps to  implement  such  principles  as
necessary,  and does not believe that an adoption of such  statutory  accounting
principles by the various states will have a material impact upon the Company.

U.S. FINANCIAL SERVICES  MODERNIZATION REFORM. In 1999, U.S. federal legislation
was  passed   permitting  the   establishment  of  financial  holding  companies
authorized to conduct banking, insurance and securities businesses. The same act
introduced new  restrictions on affiliate  transactions,  privacy  standards and
other  measures to avoid adverse  consequences  associated  with  permitting the
affiliations  of banks,  insurance  companies and securities  firms.  While this
legislation has prompted extensive  discussions among state insurance regulators
regarding  the  need  for  some  changes  in  state   regulation   and  prompted
commentators  to opine  that this  legislation  will lead to  consolidation  and
efficiencies in the financial  services arena,  the Company is unable to predict
the  impact of this new  legislation  on  property  and  casualty  insurers  and
reinsurers, generally, and on the Company, in particular.

LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY PROPOSALS. Various regulatory and legislative changes
have from time to time been proposed that could affect  reinsurers and insurers.
Among  the  proposals  that  have  in the  past  been  or are at  present  being
considered are the possible  introduction of federal  regulation in addition to,
or in lieu of, the current  system of state  regulation  of insurers,  Superfund
re-authorization,   product  liability  and  tort  reform,   state  and  federal
involvement  in  insuring  catastrophes,  limitations  on the ability of primary
insurance  carriers to effect  premium rate  increases or to cancel or not renew
existing  policies,   modifications  to  investment  limitations,   creation  of
interstate  compacts  for  multi-state  insurer   receivership   proceedings  or
multi-state  insurance  regulation  and  the  elimination  of  tax  benefits  in
connection with certain reinsurance operations. The Company is unable to predict
whether  any of these  proposals  will be  adopted,  the form in which  any such
proposals would be adopted,  or the impact,  if any, such adoption would have on
the Company.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

Everest Re's corporate  offices are located in Liberty Corner,  New Jersey,  and
occupy  approximately  112,000 square feet of office space under a sublease with
The Prudential that expires on November 29, 2003. In January,  1999,  Everest Re
entered into an agreement to  sub-sublease,  for the  remaining  term of Everest
Re's  sub-lease,  approximately  27,000  square  feet of space in  Everest  Re's
corporate  headquarters.  The Company's other twelve office  locations  occupy a
total of approximately  69,000 square feet, all of which are leased.  Management
believes that the above  described  office space is adequate for its current and
anticipated needs.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is involved  from time to time in ordinary  routine  litigation  and
arbitration proceedings incidental to its business. The Company does not believe
that there are any other material  pending legal  proceedings to which it or any
of its subsidiaries or their properties are subject.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.


PART II

ITEM 5.  (A)  MARKET  FOR  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON  EQUITY  AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
              MATTERS

MARKET INFORMATION
From October 3, 1995 through February 23, 2000, the common stock of Holdings was
traded on the New York Stock  Exchange under the symbol "RE". As a result of the
restructuring,  the  common  shares of Group  commenced  trading on the New York
Stock Exchange on February 24, 2000 under the same symbol,  "RE". Quarterly high
and low  market  prices  of  Holdings'  common  stock in 1999  and 1998  were as
follows:


NUMBER OF HOLDERS OF COMMON SHARES
The number of record  holders of common shares as of March 3, 2000 was 103. That
number  excludes the beneficial  owners of shares held in "street" names or held
through participants in depositories, such as The Depository Trust Company.


DIVIDEND HISTORY AND RESTRICTIONS
In 1995,  the Board of Directors of Holdings  established  a policy of declaring
regular  quarterly cash dividends.  The first such dividend was $0.03 per share,
declared and paid in the fourth quarter of 1995.  The Company  declared and paid
its regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.03 per share for each quarter of 1996,
$0.04 per share for each  quarter of 1997,  $0.05 per share for each  quarter of
1998 and $0.06 per share for each  quarter of 1999.  The Board of  Directors  of
Group  declared a dividend  of $0.06 per share,  payable on or before  March 30,
2000 to shareholders of record on March 8, 2000.

The declaration and payment of future dividends,  if any, by the Company will be
at the  discretion  of the Board of Directors and will depend upon many factors,
including the Company's earnings, financial condition, business needs and growth
objectives,   capital  and  surplus  requirements  of  operating   subsidiaries,
regulatory  restrictions,  rating agency considerations and other factors. As an
insurance holding company,  the Company depends on dividends and other permitted
payments from its  subsidiaries to pay cash dividends to its  stockholders.  The
payment of  dividends to Group by Holdings and to Holdings by Everest Re will be
subject to Delaware  regulatory  restrictions  and the payment of  dividends  to
Group by  Everest  Bermuda  will be  subject  to  Bermuda  insurance  regulatory
restrictions.  See  "Regulatory  Matters -- Dividends"  and Note 10A of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

RECENT  SALES OF  UNREGISTERED  SECURITIES
Information  required by Item 701 of Regulation S-K:

         (a) On October 1, 1999,  1,716 common shares of Holdings and on January
         1, 2000,  1,780 common shares of Holdings  (previously held as treasury
         shares) were distributed.

         (b) The securities were distributed to the Company's four  non-employee
         Directors.

         (c) The  securities  were issued as  compensation  to the  non-employee
         Directors for services rendered to Holdings during the third and fourth
         quarters of 1999.

         (d) Exemption from registration was claimed pursuant to Section 4(2) of
         the  Securities  Act of 1933.  There  was no  public  offering  and the
         participants  in the  transactions  were Holdings and its  non-employee
         Directors.

         (e)  Not applicable.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected consolidated GAAP financial data of the Company as of and
for the years ended December 31, 1999,  1998,  1997,  1996 and 1995 were derived
from the consolidated financial statements of the Company, which were audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP (1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996) and by other independent
auditors (1995).  The statutory data have been derived from statutory  financial
statements  of Everest Re filed with the  Delaware  Insurance  Department.  Such
statutory  financial  statements  are  prepared  in  accordance  with  Statutory
Accounting  Principals ("SAP"),  which differ from GAAP. The statutory financial
statements  are  unconsolidated  and  reflect  the net  assets of  Everest  Re's
subsidiaries,  Everest  Ltd.,  Everest  National,  Everest  Canada  and  Everest
Indemnity on the equity method.  The following  financial data should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated  Financial  Statements and accompanying notes.
The  supplemental  information  for 1995 excludes the effects of an  IPO-related
premium  charge of $140.0  million ($91.0 million after taxes) for the Stop Loss
Agreement and an IPO-related  compensation expense charge of $13.3 million ($8.7
million  after  taxes)  principally  for  stock  awards to the  Company's  Chief
Executive Officer.  Such supplemental  information is presented to facilitate an
understanding  of the impact on the  Company's  results of  operations  of these
non-recurring  charges, but should not, however, be considered as an alternative
to the respective  amounts determined in accordance with GAAP as an indicator of
the Company's operating performance.




- ------------
  (1)  After-tax operating income (loss), before after-tax net  realized capital
       gains or  losses,  was $169.0 million (or $3.48 per basic share and $3.47
       per  diluted  share),  $165.7  million (or $3.29 per basic and  $3.27 per
       diluted  share), $144.6 million (or $2.86 per basic and $2.85 per diluted
       share),  $108.3  million  (or $2.14 per  basic  and  diluted  share)  and
       ($21.2)  million (or ($0.42) per basic and  diluted  share) for the years
       ended  December  31,  1999,  1998,  1997,  1996  and 1995,  respectively.
       Supplemental  after-tax  operating  income before net realized gains  and
       excluding  IPO-related charges  was $78.4 million (or $1.56 per basic and
       diluted share) for the year ended December 31, 1995.
  (2)  Catastrophe losses are  net of reinsurance. A catastrophe is defined, for
       purposes of  the Selected  Consolidated  Financial Data, as an event that
       causes a  pre-tax  loss before  reinsurance  of at least $5.0 million and
       has an event date of January 1, 1988 or later.
  (3)  Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.
  (4)  Based  on weighted average basic shares outstanding of 48.5 million, 50.4
       million,  50.5  million,  50.6 million and  50.2 million for 1999,  1998,
       1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
  (5)  Based on  weighted  average  diluted shares  outstanding of 48.7 million,
       50.7  million,  50.8  million,  50.7  million and  50.2 million for 1999,
       1998, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
  (6)  GAAP losses and LAE incurred as a percentage of GAAP net premiums earned.
  (7)  Statutory  results  are on a Everest Re legal entity basis; consequently,
       investments  in  subsidiary operations  are  accounted for  on  an equity
       basis.  Effective January 1, 1997, the reinsurance operations of  Everest
       Re Ltd. were transferred  to  Everest Re on a portfolio basis.  Excluding
       the impact of  the  portfolio transaction,  the 1997 ratio of net written
       premiums  to  surplus, the 1997 loss and LAE ratio, the 1997 underwriting
       expense  ratio  and  the 1997 combined ratio were 1.1 x, 70.5%, 32.2% and
       102.7%, respectively.
  (8)  Statutory net premiums written as a percentage of period-end surplus.
  (9)  Statutory  losses  and  LAE  incurred as a percentage of SAP net premiums
       earned.
 (10)  Statutory  underwriting  expenses  as  a  percentage  of SAP net premiums
       written.
 (11)  Excluding  net  unrealized  appreciation  (depreciation)  of investments,
       stockholder's  equity  was $1,337.2 million,  $1,281.6 million,  $1,147.1
       million,  $1,008.3  million  and $899.9 million as  of December 31, 1999,
       1998, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 (12)  Based on 46.5  million  shares  outstanding  for December 31, 1999,  50.0
       million  shares  outstanding  for  December 31, 1998, 50.5 million shares
       outstanding  for  December  31, 1997  and  1996 and 50.8  million  shares
       outstanding for December 31, 1995.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

The  following  is a  discussion  of the  Company's  results of  operations  and
financial condition.  This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction
with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto presented under
ITEM 8.

RESTRUCTURING

Group, a Bermuda company,  was established in 1999 as a wholly-owned  subsidiary
of Holdings.  On February 24, 2000, a corporate  restructuring was completed and
Group became the new parent  holding  company of Holdings.  Holders of Holdings'
common  stock  automatically  became  holders of the same number of Group common
shares.  Prior  to  the  restructuring,  Group  had  no  significant  assets  or
capitalization  and had not engaged in any  business or prior  activities  other
than in connection with the restructuring. See ITEM 1 - "The Business - Company"
for a further discussion.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Industry Conditions. Since 1987, a number of factors, including the emergence of
significant  reinsurance  capacity  from the  Bermuda  and  rejuvenated  Lloyds'
markets,  higher retentions by primary insurance companies and consolidation and
increased  capital levels in the insurance  industry,  have caused  increasingly
competitive  global  market  conditions  across most lines of business  and have
influenced  the  softening  of prices and contract  terms in the current  market
place. The Company cannot predict with any reasonable certainty,  if, when or to
what  extent  market   conditions  as  a  whole  will  change.   See  ITEM  1  -
"Business-Competition" for a further discussion.

SEGMENT INFORMATION

The Company, through its subsidiaries, operates in five operating segments: U.S.
Broker Treaty, U.S. Direct Treaty Reinsurance and Insurance,  U.S.  Facultative,
Marine,  Aviation and Surety and  International.  These  segments are  generally
referred to as operations in this  document.  The U.S.  Broker Treaty  operation
writes  property,   accident  and  health  and  casualty   reinsurance   through
reinsurance brokers within the United States. The U.S. Direct Treaty Reinsurance
and  Insurance  operation  writes  property,  accident  and health and  casualty
reinsurance  directly with ceding  companies  and primary  property and casualty
insurance,  through agency relationships and program  administrators  within the
United States.  The U.S.  Facultative  operation writes  property,  casualty and
specialty business through brokers and directly with ceding companies within the
United States. The Marine, Aviation and Surety operation writes marine, aviation
and surety  business within the United States and worldwide.  The  International
operation writes reinsurance through the Company's branches in Belgium,  London,
Canada, Hong Kong and Singapore,  in addition to foreign "home-office" business.
The U.S. Facultative,  Marine, Aviation and Surety and International  operations
write business through brokers and directly with ceding companies.


These  segments  are  managed in a  carefully  coordinated  fashion  with strong
elements of central control, including with respect to capital,  investments and
support operations. As a result, management monitors and evaluates the financial
performance of these operating  segments based upon their  underwriting  gain or
loss ("underwriting results").

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
PREMIUMS. Gross premiums written increased 9.2% to $1,141.8 million in 1999 from
$1,045.9  million in 1998 as the  Company  took  advantage  of  selected  growth
opportunities, while continuing to maintain a disciplined underwriting approach.
Premium  growth  areas  included a 24.0%  ($86.4  million)  increase in the U.S.
Broker Treaty premiums,  largely  attributable to growth in accident and health,
non-standard auto and workers' compensation lines where the Company's relatively
recent  entry to these lines  allowed it to  selectively  grow from a relatively
small  base,  a  12.9%  ($21.8  million)  increase  in the  U.S.  Direct  Treaty
Reinsurance and Insurance premiums mainly attributable to two large accident and
health  reinsurance  treaties,  the impact of which offset declines elsewhere in
this  operation and a 5.3% ($6.3 million)  increase in the Marine,  Aviation and
Surety operation. These increases were offset by an 8.8% ($6.3 million) decrease
in the U.S.  Facultative  premiums  and a 3.8% ($12.3  million)  decrease in the
International  premiums reflecting highly competitive current market conditions.
The  Company  continued  to decline  business  that did not meet its  objectives
regarding underwriting profitability.

Ceded  premiums  increased to $46.3  million in 1999 from $29.3 million in 1998.
Ceded premiums in 1998  reflected a $32.3 million  return premium  relating to a
restructuring of the Company's catastrophe retrocessional protection. Absent the
impact of this return  premium,  the Company would have had lower ceded premiums
in 1999 as a result of the impact of the  changes in the  Company's  catastrophe
retrocessional  protections,   partially  offset  by  increased  utilization  of
contract specific retrocessions, including common account protections.

Net premiums written increased by 7.8% to $1,095.6 million in 1999 from $1,016.6
million in 1998,  reflecting  the  growth in gross  premiums  written  partially
offset by the increase in ceded premiums.

PREMIUM  REVENUES.  Net premiums earned increased by 0.3% to $1,071.5 million in
1999 from  $1,068.0  million  in 1998  consistent  with the  growth in  premiums
written.  Contributing to this increase was an 11.3% ($12.5 million) increase in
the Marine,  Aviation and Surety  operation,  a 9.7% ($35.9 million) increase in
the U.S. Broker Treaty operation and a 5.4% ($9.4 million)  increase in the U.S.
Direct  Treaty  Reinsurance  and  Insurance  operation.   These  increases  were
partially  offset  by a 14.6%  ($49.8  million)  decrease  in the  International
operation and a 6.2% ($4.5 million) decrease in the U.S. Facultative  operation.
All of these changes  reflect period to period  changes in net written  premiums
together with normal variability in earnings patterns.

EXPENSES. Incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses ("LAE") decreased by 0.9%
to $771.6 million in 1999 from $778.4 million in 1998.  Incurred  losses and LAE
include  catastrophe  losses,  which  include the impact of both current  period
events and favorable and unfavorable  development on prior period events and are
net of reinsurance.  Net  catastrophe  losses for 1999 were $45.9 million mainly
arising from European storms ($19.5 million) and from the Rouge Steel Plant Fire
($13.0  million),  together with lesser losses related to Hurricane  Floyd,  the
Turkish  Earthquakes  and the  Oklahoma  Tornadoes  compared to net  catastrophe
losses of $30.6 million for 1998. Net incurred losses and LAE for 1999 reflected
ceded losses and LAE of $7.4  million,  including  $7.2 million  ceded under the
Stop  Loss  Agreement  for  1999  offset  by a $60.8  million  reduction  of the
Company's  previous  cessions  to the Stop  Loss  Agreement  as a result  of the
Gibraltar dispute resolution, compared to ceded losses and LAE of $357.4 million
in 1998, including $153.9 million ceded under the Stop Loss Agreement.

Contributing  to the decrease in incurred  losses and LAE in 1999 from 1998 were
an  15.7%  ($42.5  million)  decrease  in  the  International   operation  which
experienced  unusual  catastrophe  losses in 1998 relating to hurricanes Georges
and Mitch and Canadian ice storms,  a 3.2% ($4.2  million)  decrease in the U.S.
Direct  Treaty  Reinsurance  and  Insurance  operation,  a 1.5%  ($0.7  million)
decrease in the U.S. Facultative operation and a 0.1% ($0.4 million) decrease in
the Marine, Aviation and Surety operation. These decreases were partially offset
by a 16.3% ($40.9 million) increase in the U.S. Broker Treaty operation that was
affected by the Rouge Steel Plant Fire and Oklahoma  tornados in 1999.  Incurred
losses and LAE for each operation were also impacted by variability  relating to
changes in the level of premium volume and mix of business by class and type.

The  Company's  loss and LAE ratio ("loss  ratio")  decreased by 0.9  percentage
points to 72.0% for 1999 from 72.9% in 1998.  This decrease was  attributable to
changes in the Company's  mix of business,  including the absence in 1999 of the
impact of certain  reinsurance  treaties with higher  expected  losses and lower
ceding  commissions  which  were  reflected  in 1998,  partially  offset  by the
increase  in  catastrophe  losses  in 1999.  The  Marine,  Aviation  and  Surety
operation's loss ratio decreased by 7.9 percentage points to 67.1% for 1999 from
75.0% in 1998  mainly due to changes in the  marine  business.  The U.S.  Direct
Treaty  Reinsurance  and  Insurance  operation's  loss  ratio  decreased  by 6.1
percentage  points  to  68.5%  for  1999  from  74.6%  in  1998.  This  decrease
was  mainly  due  to  the  absence in 1999 of the impact of certain  reinsurance


treaties  with higher  expected  losses and lower ceding  commission  which were
reflected in 1998. The  International  operation's  loss ratio  decreased by 1.0
percentage  points to 78.3% for 1999 from 79.3% in 1998  mainly due to lower net
catastrophe  losses in 1999.  The U.S.  Broker  Treaty  operation's  loss  ratio
increased  by 4.1  percentage  points  to  71.9%  for  1999  from  67.8% in 1998
generally due to higher net  catastrophe  losses in 1999, in addition to changes
in the operation's mix of business. The U.S. Facultative  operation's loss ratio
increased  by 3.1  percentage  points to 64.2% for 1999 from 61.1% in 1998.  The
loss  ratios for all  operations  are  impacted  by mix of business by class and
type.

Underwriting  expenses  increased by 4.0% to $337.0  million in 1999 from $324.1
million  in 1998.  Commission,  brokerage,  taxes  and fees  increased  by $11.4
million  attributable  to  increases  in  written  premium  and  changes  in the
Company's business mix. Other  underwriting  expenses increased by $1.5 million,
primarily attributable to $2.8 million of non-recurring  reorganization expenses
in 1999, principally relating to the Company's restructuring to a Bermuda parent
holding company.  Contributing to these  underwriting  expense  increases were a
15.0% ($5.6 million) increase in the Marine,  Aviation and Surety operation,  an
8.5% ($4.7 million) increase in the U.S. Direct Treaty Reinsurance and Insurance
operation and 6.3% ($6.6 million)  increase in the U.S. Broker Treaty operation.
These  underwriting  expense  increases  were  partially  offset by a 5.8% ($5.9
million)  decrease  in the  International  operation  and a 2.8% ($0.6  million)
decrease in the U.S.  Facultative  operation.  The changes for each  operation's
expenses were principally the result of changes in commission  expenses relating
to changes in premium  volume and business mix by class and type.  The Company's
expense ratio increased by 1.2 percentage  points to 31.5% in 1999 from 30.3% in
1998.

The Company's  combined ratio  increased by 0.3  percentage  points to 103.5% in
1999 from  103.2%  in 1998.  The U.S.  Facultative  operation's  combined  ratio
increased  by 4.2  percentage  points to 95.2% for 1999 from 91.1% in 1998.  The
U.S. Broker Treaty operation's combined ratio increased by 3.2 percentage points
to 99.4% for 1999 from 96.2% in 1998.  The  International  operation's  combined
ratio increased by 2.1 percentage points to 111.5% for 1999 from 109.4% in 1998.
The Marine,  Aviation and Surety  operation's  combined  ratio  decreased by 6.8
percentage points to 101.8% for 1999 from 108.6% in 1998. The U.S. Direct Treaty
Reinsurance and Insurance operation's combined ratio decreased by 5.2 percentage
points to 101.3% for 1999 from 106.5% in 1998. These changes reflect the expense
and loss ratio variability noted above.

Other loss for 1999 was $1.0 million compared to other income of $3.0 million in
1998.   Other  loss  and  income  for  the  respective  years  were  principally
attributable to the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

INVESTMENTS. Net investment income increased 3.3% to $253.0 million in 1999 from
$244.9  million in 1998,  principally  reflecting  the effect of  investing  the
$203.4  million of cash flow from  operating  activities in 1999.  The Company's
pre-tax yield on average cash and invested assets increased to 6.2% in 1999 from
6.0% in 1998 principally reflecting a higher interest rate environment.

Net  realized  capital  losses were $16.8  million in 1999  reflecting  realized
capital  losses on the Company's  investments of $33.9 million which were offset
by $17.1 million of realized  capital gains,  compared to net realized losses of
$0.8 million in 1998. The net realized capital losses in 1998 reflected realized
capital  losses of $13.5  million which were offset by $12.7 million of realized
capital gains. The realized capital losses in 1999 arose mainly from activity in
the Company's  taxable and  tax-exempt  domestic  fixed  maturities  portfolios,
whereas the realized capital losses in 1998 were attributable to activity in the
Company's tax-exempt fixed maturities  portfolio.  The realized capital gains in
1999 mainly arose from  activity in the  Company's  domestic  equity  portfolio,
whereas the realized capital gains in 1998 were attributable to a combination of
the activity in the Company's  taxable domestic fixed  maturities  portfolio and
domestic equity  portfolio.  The net realized losses in 1999 generally reflect a
specific program,  which has been completed,  to realize capital losses aimed at
recovering  taxes  on  realized   capital  gains  paid  in  prior  years,   with
corresponding  reinvestment  of  proceeds  at current  reinvestment  rates,  and
enhancing the Company's long-term after-tax portfolio yield.

INCOME  TAXES.  The  Company  had  income tax  expense of $38.5  million in 1999
compared to $47.5 million in 1998, with the decrease resulting from the increase
in realized capital losses.

NET INCOME.  Net income was $158.1 million in 1999 compared to $165.2 million in
1998. This decline mainly reflects increases in net capital losses.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
PREMIUMS. Gross premiums written decreased 2.7% to $1,045.9 million in 1998 from
$1,075.0  million in 1997 as the Company  maintained a disciplined  underwriting
approach in the face of  increasingly  competitive  market  conditions.  Premium
growth areas included a 10.8% ($35.2 million) increase in the U.S. Broker Treaty
premiums,  largely  attributable  to growth in non-standard  auto,  accident and
health and workers  compensation  lines where the  Company's  relatively  recent
entry to these lines provided  growth  opportunities  and a 6.8% ($10.8 million)
increase in the U.S. Direct Treaty Reinsurance and Insurance premiums mainly due
to  portfolio  reinsurance  transactions.  These  increases  were  offset  by  a


25.5% ($41.2 million) decrease in the Marine,  Aviation,  and Surety premiums, a
13.2%  ($10.9  million)  decrease in the U.S.  Facultative  premiums  and a 6.6%
($23.0  million)  decrease  in  the  International  premiums  reflecting  highly
competitive current market conditions. The Company continued to decline business
that did not meet the Company's objectives regarding underwriting profitability.

Ceded premiums decreased by 33.2% to $29.3 million in 1998 from $43.8 million in
1997, principally as a result of a $32.3 million return premium in 1998 relating
to a restructuring of the Company's catastrophe  retrocessional  protection. The
impact of this  transaction was partially  offset by increases in ceded premiums
in 1998 over 1997  attributable  to increased  utilization of contract  specific
retrocessions,  including common account protections, and reinstatement premiums
on corporate catastrophe reinsurance protections.

Net premiums written decreased by 1.4% to $1,016.6 million in 1998 from $1,031.1
million in 1997, reflecting the decreases in the International, Marine, Aviation
and Surety and U.S.  Facultative  gross written  premiums,  partially  offset by
growth  in the  U.S.  Broker  Treaty  and U.S.  Direct  Treaty  Reinsurance  and
Insurance premiums and the decrease in ceded premiums.

PREMIUM  REVENUES.  Net premiums earned increased by 1.7% to $1,068.0 million in
1998 from $1,049.8  million in 1997,  with the increase  attributable  to normal
earnings patterns coupled with the decrease in premiums written. Contributing to
this  increase was a 21.4% ($65.4  million)  increase in the U.S.  Broker Treaty
operation  and an 11.4%  ($17.7  million)  increase  in the U.S.  Direct  Treaty
Reinsurance and Insurance operation.  These increases were partially offset by a
30.4% ($48.4 million) decrease in the Marine,  Aviation and Surety operation, an
8.4% ($6.7 million) decrease in the U.S. Facultative  operation and a 2.8% ($9.9
million) decrease in the International  operation.  All of these changes reflect
period  to  period  changes  in  net  written  premiums   together  with  normal
variability in earnings patterns.

EXPENSES.  Incurred  losses and LAE increased by 1.7% to $778.4  million in 1998
from $765.4  million in 1997. The Company's loss and LAE ratio remained at 72.9%
for 1998, as was the case in 1997.  Net  catastrophe  losses for 1998 were $30.6
million mainly  arising from  Hurricanes  Georges and Mitch,  Canadian Ice Storm
losses and a major fire  impacting a facultative  coverage  partially  offset by
favorable  development on prior period catastrophes  compared to net catastrophe
losses of $8.6 million for 1997.  Catastrophe  losses include the impact of both
current period events and favorable and unfavorable  development on prior period
events  and are net of  reinsurance.  The  underlying  loss ratio  increase  was
attributable  to changes  to the  Company's  business  mix  consistent  with its
underwriting  strategy.  Net incurred  losses and LAE for 1998  reflected  ceded
losses and LAE of $357.4 million,  including $153.9 million ceded under the Stop
Loss Agreement.  The ceded losses and LAE for 1998 principally  reflect a $214.9
million increase in gross reserves with respect to asbestos  exposures which the
Company  judged  to be  necessary  based on  continuing  reported  and paid loss
emergence, particularly with respect to secondary defendants, internal and third
party   statistical   analysis,   and  its  assessment  of  potential   ultimate
liabilities,  $25.7 million of non-asbestos  related losses ceded under the Stop
Loss Agreement and $23.1 million ceded under various catastrophe  retrocessions.
The 1998 ceded losses and LAE compares to ceded losses and LAE of $109.6 million
in 1997, including $45.0 million ceded under the Stop Loss Agreement.

Contributing to the increase in incurred losses and LAE in 1998 from 1997 were a
13.3% ($29.5  million)  increase in the U.S.  Broker  Treaty  operation,  a 9.6%
($23.6  million)  increase  in the  International  operation  and a  6.0%  ($7.3
million) increase in the U.S. Direct Treaty Reinsurance and Insurance operation.
These increases were partially offset by a 31.3% ($20.3 million) decrease in the
U.S.  Facultative  operation and a 24.6% ($27.1 million) decrease in the Marine,
Aviation and Surety  operation.  Incurred losses and LAE for each operation were
also impacted by variability  relating to changes in the level of premium volume
and mix of business by class and type.

Underwriting  expenses  decreased by 0.7% to $324.1  million in 1998 from $326.5
million in 1997. Commission, brokerage, taxes and fees decreased by $0.2 million
attributable  to  decreases  in written  premium  and  changes in the  Company's
business mix.  Other  underwriting  expenses  decreased by $2.1 million,  as the
Company's  cost  reduction  initiatives  continued to provide  benefits over the
course of 1998 and 1997.  The benefits more than offset the impact of salary and
other expense increases that were generally in line with inflation. Contributing
to these underwriting expense decreases were a 28.5% ($14.8 million) decrease in
the Marine, Aviation and Surety operation and a 10.1% ($2.4 million) decrease in
the U.S.  Facultative  operation.  These  underwriting  expense  decreases  were
partially  offset by a 12.8% ($11.9 million)  increase in the U.S. Broker Treaty
operation,  a 6.3% ($3.3 million) increase in the U.S. Direct Treaty Reinsurance
and Insurance  operation and a 0.1% ($1.0 million) increase in the International
operation.  The Company's  expense ratio  decreased by 0.8 percentage  points to
30.3% in 1998 from 31.1% in 1997 as a result of the increase in premiums  earned
and the decrease in underwriting expenses.

The Company's  combined ratio  decreased by 0.8  percentage  points to 103.2% in
1998 from 104.0% in 1997  reflecting the lower expense ratio,  increased  earned
premium and loss ratio factors described above.


INVESTMENTS.  Pre-tax investment income increased 7.2% to $244.9 million in 1998
from $228.5 million in 1997,  principally reflecting the effect of investing the
$183.3  million of cash flow from  operating  activities in 1998.  The Company's
pre-tax yield on average cash and invested assets decreased to 5.8% in 1998 from
5.9% in 1997 reflecting an increase in tax  preferenced  investments and a lower
interest rate environment.

Net  realized  capital  losses  were  $0.8  million  in 1998  reflecting  normal
portfolio  management  activity compared to a net realized capital gain of $15.9
million in 1997,  mainly  arising  from a $14.0  million gain on the sale of the
Company's  remaining  investment in the common stock of  Corporacion  MAPFRE,  a
publicly traded Spanish insurer.

INCOME  TAXES.  The  Company  had  income tax  expense of $47.5  million in 1998
compared  to  $52.3  million  in  1997,  with the  decrease  resulting  from the
relationship of tax-exempt income to pre-tax income as the Company increased the
tax preferenced element of investment income at a rate greater than the increase
in  pre-tax  income  as a result  of growth  in the  Company's  tax  preferenced
investment holdings.

NET INCOME.  Net income was $165.2 million in 1998 compared to $155.0 million in
1997. This improvement mainly reflects higher earned premium,  higher investment
income,  and lower  income taxes  partially  offset by a decrease in net capital
gains and an increase in net incurred losses.

FINANCIAL CONDITION
CASH  AND  INVESTED  ASSETS.  Aggregate  invested  assets,  including  cash  and
short-term  investments,  were $4,139.2  million at December 31, 1999,  $4,325.8
million at December  31, 1998 and $4,163.3  million at December  31,  1997.  The
decrease in cash and invested  assets from 1998 to 1999 resulted  primarily from
net realized and  unrealized  losses on  investments of $318.9 million and $96.4
million in share  repurchases,  partially offset by $203.4 million in cash flows
from operations generated during the period and $59.0 million in credit facility
borrowings.  The increase in cash and invested assets from 1997 to 1998 resulted
primarily from $183.3 million in cash flows from operations generated during the
period  together with net realized and unrealized  gains on investments of $57.2
million.

LOSS AND LAE RESERVES
GENERAL.  Gross loss and LAE reserves  totaled  $3,647.0 million at December 31,
1999, $3,800.0 million at December 31, 1998 and $3,437.8 million at December 31,
1997. The decrease in 1999 was primarily attributable to a reduction in reserves
for 1995 and prior  periods  as a result  of the  Gibraltar  dispute  resolution
together with normal  variability in claim settlements and an unchanged level of
earned  premiums.  The  increase in 1998 was mainly due to reserve  increases on
pre-1986 accident years for asbestos and environmental exposures,  most of which
were ceded under various retrocessional  arrangements resulting in an offsetting
increase to  reinsurance  receivables.  Reinsurance  receivables  totaled $742.5
million at December  31,  1999,  $982.0  million at December 31, 1998 and $692.5
million at December 31, 1997. At December 31, 1999, $345.4 million, or 46.5%, of
the total  was  receivable  from  Gibraltar,  including  $9.5  million  which is
contractually  due in the  first  quarter  of  2000,  $255.5  million  which  is
collateralized by funds held by the Company or offsetting  liabilities and $80.4
million  which is  subject  to the  terms  and  conditions  of The  Prudential's
guarantee of  Gibraltar's  payment  obligations  to the  Company.  Additionally,
$145.0  million,  or 19.5%, is receivable from  Continental  Insurance  Company,
which is secured by a funds held  arrangement  wherein the Company has  retained
the premium payments due the  retrocessionaire,  recognized a liability for such
amounts   and   reduces   such   liability   as   payments   are  due  from  the
retrocessionaire.  No  other  retrocessionaire  accounted  for more  than  $25.0
million of the Company's receivable.

Everest Re maintains  reserves to cover its  estimated  ultimate  liability  for
losses and LAE with respect to reported and unreported claims.  Because reserves
are estimates of ultimate losses and LAE,  management  monitors reserve adequacy
over  time,  evaluating  new  information  as it  becomes  known  and  adjusting
reserves, as necessary. Management considers many factors when setting reserves,
including:  (i) current legal  interpretations  of coverage and liability;  (ii)
economic  conditions;  (iii)  internal  actuarial  methodologies  which  analyze
Everest Re's experience with similar cases,  information  from ceding  companies
and historical trends, such as reserving patterns, loss payments, pending levels
of unpaid  claims and product mix; and (iv) the  uncertainties  discussed  below
regarding reserve  requirements for asbestos and environmental  claims. Based on
these considerations,  management believes that adequate provision has been made
for Everest Re's loss and LAE reserves.  Actual losses and LAE  ultimately  paid
may deviate, perhaps substantially, from such reserves.

ASBESTOS AND  ENVIRONMENTAL  EXPOSURES.  Everest Re's asbestos claims  typically
involve  liability or potential  liability  for bodily  injury from  exposure to
asbestos or liability for property  damage  resulting  from asbestos or asbestos
containing  materials.  Everest  Re's  environmental  claims  typically  involve
potential   liability  for  the  mitigation  or  remediation  of   environmental
contamination  or  bodily  injury  or  property  damages  caused  by the release
of  hazardous  substances  into  the  land,  air  or  water.  In addition to the
previously described  general  uncertainties  inherent in  estimating  reserves,
there   are  significant  additional  uncertainties  in  estimating  the  amount
of   Everest   Re's   potential   losses   from   asbestos   and   environmental


claims. Among the complications impacting the estimation of such losses are: (i)
potentially  long waiting  periods  between  exposure and  manifestation  of any
bodily injury or property  damage;  (ii)  difficulty in  identifying  sources of
asbestos or environmental contamination; (iii) difficulty in properly allocating
responsibility  and/or  liability  for asbestos or  environmental  damage;  (iv)
changes in  underlying  laws and  judicial  interpretation  of those  laws;  (v)
potential  for an  asbestos or  environmental  claim to involve  many  insurance
providers  over many  policy  periods;  (vi) long  reporting  delays,  both from
insureds to  insurance  companies  and ceding  companies  to  reinsurers;  (vii)
historical  data concerning  asbestos and  environmental  losses,  which is more
limited than historical  information on other types of casualty  claims;  (viii)
questions concerning interpretation and application of insurance and reinsurance
coverage;  and (ix)  uncertainty  regarding  the number and identity of insureds
with potential asbestos or environmental exposure.  Although these complications
have become less severe in recent years,  management believes that these factors
continue to render reserves for asbestos and environmental  losses significantly
less subject to traditional  actuarial  methods than are reserves on other types
of losses.  Given these  uncertainties,  management  believes that no meaningful
range for such  ultimate  losses  can be  established.  Everest  Re  establishes
reserves  to the extent  that,  in the  judgment  of  management,  the facts and
prevailing law reflect an exposure for Everest Re or its ceding company.  Due to
the uncertainties  discussed above, the ultimate losses may vary materially from
current loss reserves and could have a material  adverse effect on the Company's
future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The  table  below  summarizes  reserves  and claim  activity  for  asbestos  and
environmental  claims, on both a gross and net of ceded  reinsurance  basis, for
the periods indicated:

- ----------
(1)   Net of $0.0 million in 1999,  $138.5  million in 1998 and $41.2 million in
      1997 ceded under the incurred loss reimbursement  feature of the Stop Loss
      Agreement.
(2)   Net of $118.8  million in 1999,  $39.7  million in 1998 and $22.6  million
      in 1997 ceded as paid losses under the Stop Loss Agreement.

The gross IBNR reserves for asbestos and  environmental  exposures  increased by
$192.0 million in 1998.  During 1998, the Company  reviewed all relevant data in
considering  the estimate of ultimate  reserves  for asbestos and  environmental
exposures.  This  included  analysis  of  incurred  and paid  loss  development,
qualitative  assessments  of claims,  claimants,  judgements  and emerging trend
information.  Overall, these analytical activities concluded that the underlying
ultimate  exposures were greater than  previously  estimated,  principally  with
respect to continuing shifts in loss emergence and payment  patterns,  including
the unexpectedly  large impact of newly reported claims for  insureds/defendants
not previously expected to have significant  exposures.  The gross IBNR reserves
for asbestos and environmental exposures decreased by $65.2 million in 1999. The
decrease  resulted  primarily  from  management's  belief that there has been no
material change in the ultimate asbestos and environmental loss exposures. Thus,
the reported incurred losses in 1999 were offset with  corresponding  reductions
in IBNR reserves.


The $249.1  million of  reinsurance  receivables  with  respect to asbestos  and
environmental  reserves as of December 31, 1999 was attributable  principally to
two  retrocessional  arrangements:  (i)  $166.5  million  was  ceded to  various
insurance and reinsurance  companies,  including  Gibraltar,  in connection with
their  participation in MUF; and (ii) $69.1 million resulting from the Company's
former direct excess insurance operations, which ceased writing business in 1985
and which has been 100% ceded to Gibraltar since 1986.

STOP LOSS AGREEMENT AND PRUDENTIAL GUARANTEES. To the extent reserves as of June
30, 1995 (December 31, 1994 for  catastrophe  losses) for losses,  allocated LAE
and  uncollectible   reinsurance   experience  adverse   development   ("Adverse
Development"),  Everest Re is entitled,  at the time reserves are increased,  to
payments  under the Stop Loss  Agreement,  subject to the limit and other  terms
thereof.  Gibraltar's  obligations to make payments to Everest Re under the Stop
Loss Agreement are  guaranteed by The  Prudential.  Management  expects that the
general  effect of the Stop Loss  Agreement  will be to  protect  the  Company's
consolidated  earnings  against up to $375.0 million of the first $400.0 million
of Adverse Development.  There can be no assurance,  however, that the Company's
net liability  for such Adverse  Development  will be limited to $25.0  million.
With respect to  liquidity,  the incurred loss  reimbursement  features of these
agreements  provide the Company with cash on or prior to the time it is required
to make payment on account of such  Adverse  Development.  Through  December 31,
1999,  Adverse  Development  ceded under the Stop Loss Agreement have aggregated
$285.6 million with remaining  limits available of $89.4 million as respects the
next $99.3 million of Adverse  Development.  Everest Re does not intend to enter
into any new stop loss agreements with respect to exposures arising from periods
prior to July 1, 1995 if the  current  Stop Loss  Agreement  with  Gibraltar  is
exhausted or when it terminates.

During the first quarter of 1999,  Gibraltar  disputed $63.0 million ceded under
the Stop Loss Agreement in the fourth  quarter of 1998.  Gibraltar also disputed
the Company's level of reserves  previously ceded to and paid by Gibraltar under
the Stop Loss  Agreement and claimed a refund of $91.7  million.  These disputes
were based on Gibraltar's belief that there were redundancies in that portion of
Everest  Re's IBNR  reserves  which  were  subject  to the Stop Loss  Agreement.
Pursuant  to the  terms of the Stop Loss  Agreement,  Everest  Re and  Gibraltar
appointed an independent examiner to review Everest Re's reserves underlying the
disputed  amounts to determine the appropriate  amount of cessions to Gibraltar,
and Everest Re placed the $91.7 million in a trust.

In December 1999, the  independent  examiner issued its findings with respect to
the disputed  amounts.  As a result,  Everest Re and  Gibraltar  resolved  these
disputes.  The resolution resulted in Everest Re reducing its gross reserves for
1995 and prior  periods by $67.6 million and reducing its claim to the Stop Loss
by $60.8 million.  Everest Re will also receive $2.3 million in additional  cash
from Gibraltar as a result of the revised  billing and the trust noted above has
been  terminated.  The gross  coverage  limit  under  the Stop  Loss  Agreement,
excluding  cessions  of $8.0  million  in the fourth  quarter of 1999,  has been
restored to $107.4  million.  As a result,  Everest Re will receive $9.5 million
from  Gibraltar  in the  first  quarter  of  2000.  Pursuant  to the  Stop  Loss
Agreement,  Everest Re will  continue to evaluate its  reserves  each quarter to
determine if additional cessions are appropriate.

During the first quarter of 1999, Gibraltar disputed $39.7 million ceded under a
1986 quota  share  reinsurance  ("Direct  Excess  Retrocession")  through  which
Gibraltar assumed 100% of the liabilities  related to Everest Re's former direct
excess insurance  operations  which ceased writing  business in 1985.  Gibraltar
then  commenced an  arbitration  proceeding in accordance  with the terms of the
Direct Excess Retrocession. Gibraltar disputed the level of reserves established
by Everest Re primarily reflecting reserves for asbestos losses and Everest Re's
right  to  determine  these   reserves,   but  Gibraltar  did  not  dispute  its
responsibility  to pay the ultimate  losses in accordance  with the terms of the
Direct  Excess  Retrocession.  As a result of the dispute,  Gibraltar  initially
failed to provide funds or security to Everest Re in order to secure Gibraltar's
payment  obligations  to Everest Re in  accordance  with the terms of the Direct
Excess  Retrocession.  However,  throughout the remainder of 1999, Gibraltar has
provided  substantially all of the required funding to Everest Re and Everest Re
and  Gibraltar  agreed to halt the  arbitration  proceeding  and to postpone the
resolution of the remaining  disputed  issues.  Management  does not expect that
this  dispute  will  have a  material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  future
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

The Prudential has guaranteed all of Gibraltar's obligations under the Stop Loss
Agreement and up to $400.0  million of  Gibraltar's  net  obligations  under all
other reinsurance  agreements  between Gibraltar and Everest Re. At December 31,
1999,  Gibraltar's  net  obligations  under  such other  reinsurance  agreements
consisted of the following balances:

Reinsurance receivables from Gibraltar                            $    345.4
Reserve for losses and loss adjustment
 expenses assumed from Gibraltar                                      (151.0)
Losses in the course of payment assumed
 from Gibraltar                                                         (4.1)
Funds held by Everest Re under reinsurance
 treaties with Gibraltar                                              (109.9)
                                                                  ----------
  Net obligations of Gibraltar                                    $     80.4
                                                                  ==========


In addition,  since June 30, 1995,  Gibraltar has paid $167.3 million to Everest
Re in respect of such other reinsurance agreements.

On February  24, 2000,  Holdings  announced  an  agreement  with The  Prudential
Insurance Company of America to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares
of Gibraltar  Casualty Company for approximately  $52.0 million.  Closing of the
acquisition will be subject to the satisfaction of customary closing  conditions
and the receipt of regulatory approvals.

Upon the closing of the acquisition:

o     Everest Re's current reinsurance  contracts with Gibraltar,  including the
      Stop Loss Agreement,  will remain in effect. However, these contracts will
      become  transactions  with affiliates with the financial impact eliminated
      through inter-company accounts.

o     The  Prudential  Guarantees  will  be  terminated  and  Prudential will be
      released from its obligations.

o     The PRUCO Surplus Maintenance Agreement will be terminated.

o     The PRUCO Indemnity will be terminated and PRUCO will be released  from it
      obligations.

In connection with the acquisition,  The Prudential will provide  reinsurance to
Gibraltar covering 80% of the first $200.0 million of any adverse development in
Gibraltar's  reserves.  See also ITEM 1 -  "Relationships  with Gibraltar" for a
further discussion.

STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY. The Company's  stockholders' equity decreased to $1,327.5
million as of December  31, 1999 from  $1,479.2  million as of December 31, 1998
principally reflecting an increase of $207.3 million in unrealized  depreciation
of investments and $96.4 million in share repurchases  relating to the Company's
stock  repurchase  plan,  partially  offset by an increase of $146.4  million in
retained  earnings  for the year.  Stockholder's  equity as of December 31, 1998
increased  to $1,479.2  million  from  $1,307.5  million as of December 31, 1997
principally reflecting an increase of $155.1 million in retained earnings and an
increase of $37.2 million in unrealized  appreciation of investments.  Dividends
of $11.6  million,  $10.1  million and $8.1  million  were  declared and paid by
Holdings in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

The Company's  stockholders'  equity of $1,327.5  million  exceeded Everest Re's
statutory-basis  surplus of $1,147.6  million by $179.9  million at December 31,
1999. The primary differences between GAAP and SAP as they relate to the Company
are: (i) the deferral of  acquisition  costs under GAAP,  which are  immediately
expensed  under SAP;  (ii) the  provision  for deferred  taxes on temporary  tax
differences  under GAAP, which are excluded under SAP; and (iii) the carrying at
market value of fixed  maturities  available for sale under GAAP, as compared to
at amortized cost under SAP.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
EVEREST RE. Everest Re's liquidity requirements are met on both a short-term and
long-term basis by funds provided by premiums  collected,  investment income and
collected reinsurance  receivables  balances,  and from the sale and maturity of
investments.  Everest Re's net cash flows from operating  activities were $203.4
million,   $183.3  million  and  $376.4   million,   in  1999,  1998  and  1997,
respectively.  The decreases from 1997 in cash provided by operating  activities
were principally a result of increases in net paid losses reflecting  maturation
of the Company's loss reserves combined with the changes in the Company's mix of
business and modest,  if any, growth in gross written premium,  all of which may
affect  growth in cash flow from  operations in  subsequent  periods,  offset by
improved profitability.  Recoveries under the Company's Stop Loss Agreement with
Gibraltar contributed $79.0 million, $31.9 million and $99.8 million of such net
cash flows in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Proceeds and applications  from sales and acquisitions of investment assets were
$941.1  million  and  $1,068.4  million,   respectively,   in  1999  principally
reflecting normal portfolio management activity aimed at enhancing the Company's
portfolio yield, compared to $634.2 million and $755.3 million, respectively, in
1998 and $1,077.0 million and $1,482.8 million,  respectively,  in 1997. Everest
Re's current  investment  strategy seeks to maximize  after-tax income through a
high  quality,  diversified,  duration  sensitive,  taxable bond and  tax-exempt
municipal bond portfolio, while maintaining an adequate level of liquidity.

EXPOSURE TO  CATASTROPHES.  As with other  reinsurers,  Everest  Re's  operating
results and  financial  condition  can be  adversely  affected  by volatile  and
unpredictable  natural  and other  disasters,  such as  hurricanes,  windstorms,
earthquakes, floods, fires and explosions. Although Everest Re attempts to limit
its exposure to acceptable  levels,  it is possible that an actual  catastrophic
event or multiple  catastrophic  events could have a material  adverse effect on
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company.


Everest Re employs various techniques,  including licensed software modeling, to
assess its accumulated  exposure to property  catastrophe  losses and summarizes
that exposure in terms of the probable maximum loss ("PML"). The Company defines
PML as its anticipated maximum loss, taking into account contract limits, caused
by a single  catastrophe  affecting a broad contiguous  geographic area, such as
that caused by a hurricane or earthquake of such a magnitude that it is expected
to occur  once in every  100  years.  Management  estimates  that the  Company's
greatest  catastrophe  exposure worldwide from any single event is to hurricanes
and  earthquakes in the coastal  regions of the United States,  where Everest Re
estimates it has a PML exposure,  before  reinsurance,  of approximately  $181.0
million in each such region based on its current  book of  business.  Similarly,
management estimates that the largest current PML exposure,  before reinsurance,
outside  the  United  States is  approximately  $98.0  million.  There can be no
assurance  that  Everest  Re  will  not  experience  losses  from  one  or  more
catastrophic events that exceed,  perhaps by a substantial amount, its estimated
PML.

The Company maintains a corporate-level retrocessional protection program, above
and beyond retrocessions purchased with respect to specific assumed coverage, to
mitigate the potential impact of catastrophe losses. The principal components of
the Company's  retrocessional  protection  program as it relates to catastrophes
are an accident  year  aggregate  excess of loss  treaty and the  retrocessional
excess of loss coverage of  international  exposures.  During 1999,  the Company
purchased an accident year aggregate excess of loss protection which provides up
to $175.0 million of coverage if Everest Re's statutory basis accident year loss
ratio  exceeds a loss ratio  attachment  point  provided in the contract for the
1999  accident  year.  For 2000,  the Company has  purchased a new accident year
aggregate  excess of loss  protection  which  provides  up to $175.0  million of
coverage if Everest Re's statutory basis accident year loss ratio exceeds a loss
ratio  attachment point provided in the contract for the 2000 accident year. The
Company's  retrocessional  protection program,  for the period from May 15, 1999
through  May 15,  2000,  includes  a  catastrophe  retrocession  which  provides
coverage of 70.0% of $20.0  million of losses per  occurrence in excess of $10.0
million in losses incurred by the Company outside of the United States, provided
that the Company's net loss per occurrence is $15.0 million. For the period from
May 23, 1999  through  May 23,  2000,  the  Company's  catastrophe  retrocession
program  provides  coverage of 85% of $20.0 million of losses per  occurrence in
excess of $30.0 million in losses  incurred by the Company outside of the United
States.  All aspects of the retrocession  program have been structured to permit
the program to be accounted for as reinsurance  under SFAS No. 113. See ITEM 1 -
"Risk Management and Retrocession Arrangements" for further details.

If a single  catastrophe  were to occur in the United  States  that  resulted in
$181.0 million of gross losses and allocated loss adjustment  expenses  ("ALAE")
in 2000 (an amount  equivalent to Everest Re's PML),  management  estimates that
the effect (including  additional  premiums and retained losses and ALAE) on the
Company's  income  before  taxes would be $91.8  million.  This pre-tax net loss
estimate  assumes  that Everest  Re's  aggregate  losses and ALAE for 2000 would
exceed the threshold  loss ratio  requirement  in the  aggregate  excess of loss
cover by at least $175.0 million.

GROUP.  Under  Bermuda  law,  Group is  prohibited  from  declaring  or paying a
dividend if such payment would reduce the  realizable  value of its assets to an
amount less than the  aggregate  value of its  liabilities  and its issued share
capital and share premium (additional paid-in capital) accounts. Group's ability
to pay dividends and its operating expenses is dependent upon dividends from its
subsidiaries.  The payment of such dividends by insurer  subsidiaries is limited
under  Bermuda  and the  United  States  laws in  which  Group's  insurance  and
reinsurance  subsidiaries are licensed to transact business. The limitations are
generally based upon net income and compliance  with  applicable  policyholders'
surplus  or  minimum  solvency  margin  and  liquidity  ratio   requirements  as
determined in accordance with the relevant statutory accounting practices.

BERMUDA RE. Under Bermuda law, Bermuda Re is unable to declare or pay a dividend
if it fails to meet its minimum  solvency margin or minimum  liquidity ratio, or
if after payment of the dividend,  it fails to meet its minimum  solvency margin
or minimum liquidity ratio. As a long-term insurer, Bermuda Re is also unable to
declare or pay a  dividend  to anyone who is not a  policyholder  unless,  after
payment of the dividend, the value of the assets in its long-term business fund,
as certified by its approved  actuary,  exceeds its  liabilities  for  long-term
business by at least the $250,000 minimum solvency margin. Prior approval of the
Bermuda Minister of Finance is required if Bermuda Re's dividend  payments would
reduce its prior year end total statutory capital by 15.0% or more.

HOLDINGS. Holdings is a holding company whose only material asset is the capital
stock of Everest Re.  Holdings'  cash flow  consists  primarily of dividends and
other  permissible   payments  from  Everest  Re  and  borrowings  under  credit
facilities  and  offerings.  Holdings  depends upon such  payments for funds for
general   corporate   purposes,   including  its  debt  and  operating   expense
obligations.

On  December  21,  1999,  Holdings  entered  into  a three-year senior revolving
credit  facility  with  a  syndicate  of  lenders (the "Credit Facility"), which
replaced  its  prior  credit  facility  which  had  been  extended  in June 1999
and  increased  from  $50.0  million  to  $75.0  million  on  November  9, 1999.
First  Union  National  Bank   is  the   administrative  agent  for  the  Credit
Facility.     The   Credit   Facility   will   be   used   for   liquidity   and
general   corporate   purposes   and   to   refinance   existing    debt   under


Holdings' prior credit facility, which has been terminated.  The Credit Facility
provides  for the  borrowing  of up to $150.0  million  with  interest at a rate
selected  by Holdings  equal to either (i) the Base Rate (as  defined  below) or
(ii) an adjusted London InterBank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus a margin. The Base
Rate is the higher of the rate of interest  established  by First Union National
Bank from time to time as its prime rate or the Federal Funds rate plus 0.5% per
annum.  The amount of margin and the fees payable for the Credit Facility depend
upon Holdings' senior unsecured debt rating or, if such is not available, on the
financial  strength  rating of the Holdings'  subsidiary,  Everest Re. Group has
guaranteed all of Holdings' obligations under the Credit Facility.

The Credit Facility  agreement  requires  Holdings to maintain a debt to capital
ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1, a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.5 to
1 and to maintain  Everest Re's statutory  surplus at $850.0 million plus 25% of
future aggregate net income and 25% of future aggregate  capital  contributions.
Everest Re's statutory  surplus was $1,147.6 million for the year ended December
31, 1999.  Holdings'  debt to capital ratio was 0.04 for the year ended December
31, 1999.  Holdings'  minimum interest coverage ratio was 3.5 for the year ended
December 31,  1999.  At December  31, 1999 and 1998,  Holdings  had  outstanding
borrowings  of $59.0 million and $0.0 million,  respectively.  Interest  expense
incurred  in  connection  with  these  borrowings  was $1.5  million  based on a
weighted  average  interest rate of 5.8%,  $0.0 million and $0.0 million for the
periods  ending  December  31,  1999,  December  31, 1998 and December 31, 1997,
respectively.

On March 14, 2000, Holdings completed public offerings of $200 million principal
amount of 8.75%  senior  notes due March  15,  2010 and $250  million  principal
amount of 8.50% senior notes due March 15, 2005. Holdings retained approximately
$50 million of the net proceeds for general  corporate  purposes.  Approximately
$400  million of the net  proceeds  were  distributed  by  Holdings to Group and
approximately  $250  million  were used by Group to  capitalize  Bermuda Re. The
remainder  of the  proceeds  that  were  distributed  to Group  will be used for
general  corporate  purposes.  See Note 15B of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.

The payment of  dividends  to  Holdings by Everest Re is subject to  limitations
imposed by the  Delaware  Insurance  Code.  Based upon these  restrictions,  the
maximum  amount that will be  available  for payment of dividends to Holdings by
Everest Re in 2000  without the prior  approval  of  regulatory  authorities  is
$166.5  million.  Everest  Re's future cash flow  available  to Holdings  may be
influenced  by a variety  of  factors,  including  changes in the  property  and
casualty   reinsurance  market,   Everest  Re's  financial  results,   insurance
regulatory changes and changes in general economic conditions.  The availability
of such cash flow to Holdings  could also be influenced  by, among other things,
changes in the limitations imposed by the Delaware Insurance Code on the payment
of  dividends  by  Everest  Re.  Holdings  expects  that,   absent   significant
catastrophe  losses, such restrictions should not affect Everest Re's ability to
declare and pay dividends  sufficient  to support  Holdings'  general  corporate
needs.

During  1999,  1998 and 1997,  Holdings  declared  and paid  dividends  of $11.6
million, $10.1 million and $8.1 million, respectively.

On March 21, 1996, the Holdings' Board of Directors  approved a stock repurchase
plan  authorizing the repurchase of an aggregate  amount of 2,500,000  shares of
common  stock  from  time  to time in open  market  transactions.  During  1999,
Holdings'  Board of  Directors  extended  this  authorization  by an  additional
4,400,000 shares,  bringing the total authorization to 6,900,000 shares.  During
1999,  3,553,000 shares were repurchased at an average price of $27.14 per share
compared with 516,900 shares at an average price of $33.68 per share in 1998. At
December  31,  1999,  2,830,100  shares  remain  under the  existing  repurchase
authorization.  Group's Board of Directors has continued  this stock  repurchase
plan.

MARKET SENSITIVE INSTRUMENTS
The Securities and Exchange Commission  Financial Reporting Release #48 requires
registrants  to  clarify  and  expand  upon  the  existing  financial  statement
disclosure   requirements  for  derivative  financial  instruments,   derivative
commodity instruments,  and other financial instruments  (collectively,  "market
sensitive instruments").

The Company's  current  investment  strategy does not provide for investments in
derivative  financial  instruments  or  derivative  commodity  instruments.  The
Company's current investment strategy seeks to maximize after-tax income through
a high quality,  diversified,  taxable and tax-exempt fixed maturity  portfolio,
while  maintaining an adequate level of liquidity.  The Company's mix of taxable
and tax-preferenced  investments is adjusted  continuously,  consistent with its
current and projected  operating results,  market conditions,  and tax position.
The fixed  maturities in the  investment  portfolio are comprised of non-trading
available for sale securities.  Additionally,  the Company invests in marketable
equity securities, which it believes will enhance the risk-adjusted total return
of the investment portfolio.


The overall  strategy  considers  the scope of present and  anticipated  Company
operations.  In  particular,  estimates of the financial  impact  resulting from
non-investment  asset and  liability  transactions,  together with the Company's
capital  structure  and  other  factors,  are used to  develop  a net  liability
analysis.  This analysis includes estimated payout characteristics for which the
investments of the Company provide liquidity. This analysis is considered in the
development of specific  investment  strategies for asset allocation,  duration,
and credit quality.

The $4.1 billion investment  portfolio is comprised of fixed maturity securities
that are  subject to  interest  rate risk and foreign  currency  rate risk,  and
equity  securities  that are subject to equity  price risk.  The impact of these
risks in the investment portfolio is generally mitigated by changes in the value
of  operating  assets and  liabilities  and their  associated  income  statement
impact.

Interest  rate  risk is the  potential  change  in value of the  fixed  maturity
portfolio  due  to  change  in  market  interest  rates.  Further,  it  includes
prepayment risk in a declining  interest rate  environment on the $337.8 million
of the $3.9 billion fixed maturity portfolio,  which consists of mortgage-backed
securities.  Prepayment risk results from  accelerated  principal  payments that
shorten the average life and thus, the expected yield of the security.

The tables below display the potential  impact of market value  fluctuations and
after-tax unrealized appreciation on the fixed maturity portfolio as of December
31, 1999 and 1998 based on parallel 200 basis point shifts in interest  rates up
and down in 100 basis point  increments.  For legal entities with a U.S.  dollar
functional currency,  this modeling was performed on each security individually.
To generate appropriate price estimates on mortgage-backed  securities,  changes
in prepayment  expectations under different interest rate environments are taken
into account. For legal entities with a non-U.S. dollar functional currency, the
effective  duration of the involved  portfolio of securities was used as a proxy
for the market value change under the various  interest  rate change  scenarios.
During the year,  there was no material  change in the fixed maturity  portfolio
with respect to interest rate risk. All amounts are in millions of U.S.$.


Foreign  currency rate risk is the potential change in value,  income,  and cash
flow  arising from  adverse  changes in foreign  currency  exchange  rates.  The
Company's  foreign  operations  each  maintain  capital in the  currency  of the
country of its geographic location consistent with local regulatory  guidelines.
Generally, the Company prefers to maintain the capital of its foreign operations
in U.S.  dollar  assets  although  this  varies by  regulatory  jurisdiction  in
accordance with market needs. Each foreign operation may conduct business in its
local currency as well as the currency of other  countries in which it operates.
The primary  foreign  currency  exposures are the Canadian  Dollar,  the British
Pound Sterling and the Euro for these foreign operations.  The Company mitigates
foreign exchange  exposure by a general matching of the currency and duration of
its assets to its corresponding  operating  liabilities.  In accordance with FAS
52, the Company translates the assets, liabilities and income of non-U.S. dollar
functional  currency legal entities to the U.S. dollar.  This translation amount
is reported as a component of other comprehensive income. The primary functional
foreign currency  exposures are the Canadian  Dollar,  the Belgian Franc and the
British Pound Sterling for these foreign operations.


The tables  below  display the  potential  impact of a parallel 20% increase and
decrease in foreign  exchange rates on the valuation of invested  assets subject
to foreign currency exposure in 10% increments as of December 31, 1999 and 1998.
This analysis  includes the after-tax impact of translation  from  transactional
currency to functional  currency as well as the after-tax  impact of translation
from functional currency to the U.S. dollar reporting currency. During the year,
the Company  redenominated  all invested  assets  whose  currency was one of the
eleven  eligible  currencies to be converted to the Euro. The impact of the Euro
conversion was not material to the Company's  business,  operations or financial
condition. All amounts are in millions of U.S.$.




Equity  risk is the  potential  change in market  value of the common  stock and
preferred  stock  portfolios  arising from changing  equity prices.  The Company
invests in  predominately  high  quality  preferred  and common  stocks that are
traded on the major  exchanges in the United  States.  The primary  objective in
managing the $90.7  million  equity  portfolio is to provide  long-term  capital
growth through market appreciation and income.

The tables  below  display the impact on market value and  after-tax  unrealized
appreciation  of a 20% change in equity prices up and down in 10%  increments as
of December 31, 1999 and 1998.  During the year, there was no material change in
the equity portfolio with respect to equity risk. All amounts are in millions of
U.S.$.





YEAR 2000 ISSUES AND READINESS DISCLOSURE
YEAR 2000 ISSUES. Many computers, software programs and microprocessors embedded
in certain equipment (collectively, "systems") were designed to accommodate only
two-digit date fields to represent a given year (e.g., "99" represents 1999). It
is possible that such systems, if not modified or replaced,  will not be able to
accurately process data containing  information relating to dates before, during
or after the year  2000.  It is also  possible  that  such  systems  could  fail
entirely,  although in many  instances  the  consequences  of a system not being
"year 2000  compliant" are unknown.  This "year 2000 issue" has the potential to
affect the Company  through (i) the disruption of the processing of business and
general corporate transactions,  both at the Company and between the Company and
other  business  entities with which it interacts,  and (ii) claims which may be
brought  asserting  that costs  associated  with the issue may be covered  under
insurance or reinsurance contracts in which the Company participates.

READINESS.  The Company has been  actively  engaged in a project to mitigate the
potential  effects of the year 2000  issue.  For each  segment  of its  internal
computer  processing  environment  (mainframe,  midrange and PC equipment),  the
Company  has a  multi-phase  plan  that  involves  (a)  the  identification  and
assessment of year 2000  compliance,  (b) the design and development of remedies
(including the replacement of non-compliant  systems if needed),  (c) testing of
year  2000  readiness  (d)  the   implementation   of  fully   integrated   year
2000-compliant  processing and (e) the  development  of appropriate  contingency
plans.  The Company  completed all year 2000  preparations  on  mission-critical
systems prior to January 1, 2000. No material performance problems were detected
in such systems on or after January 1, 2000,  although the Company  continues to
monitor its technology environment for compliance.


The Company has continued to actively survey its significant  business  partners
(e.g.,  ceding companies) and service  providers (e.g.,  banks) concerning their
compliance status. No material disruption in these services or relationships was
detected  on or after  January 1, 2000,  although  the Company  continues  to be
watchful for signs of year 2000 problems.

COSTS.  The Company's  historical and expected  future costs to make its systems
year 2000 compliant are not material.  The total expected out-of-pocket costs of
the year 2000  effort  are  approximately  $0.6  million,  all of which had been
incurred  as  of  December  31,  1999.   These  figures  include  only  expenses
specifically  related to year 2000  compliance  and do not  include  the cost of
hardware or software acquisitions made in the normal course of business.

RISKS. The Company does not rely on computer-dependent  transactions to the same
extent  as many  other  businesses.  However,  in the event  that the  Company's
internal processing environment could not be made year 2000-compliant, or in the
event that significant  business partners or service providers or other business
entities  experienced  serious year 2000 problems,  the Company could experience
disruption in its  business.  This  disruption  could  conceivably  take several
forms: (a) having to compile information and process transactions  manually, (b)
if compliance  problems  persisted,  impairing the Company's  ability to receive
premiums from and make claim payments to its ceding companies, (c) impairing the
Company's  ability to obtain  information about its investments or (d) impairing
the  value of the  Company's  fixed  maturity  and  equity  investments,  if the
entities  underlying  those  investments  themselves have  substantial year 2000
costs,  liabilities  or  disruptions.  Any  or  all of  the  types  of  possible
disruptions in such a "worst case scenario" could  materially  increase the cost
of  doing  business,  could  impair  the  Company's  ability  to  make  required
regulatory   filings  and  could  materially  affect  the  Company's   financial
condition,  results of operations or liquidity.  However, based upon the absence
of any  material  disruption  having  occurred  on or after  January 1, 2000 and
current  information,  the Company  does not expect such  scenarios to occur and
does not expect material disruption to its business.

CONTINGENCY  PLANS. The Company has developed a contingency plan which addresses
how each  business unit in its  corporate  office would  continue to perform its
mission-critical  functions  in the event of a systems  failure  related to year
2000.  The plan has been extended to its branch  offices and will be reevaluated
and updated as needed.

POTENTIAL  CLAIMS EXPOSURE.  Individuals or entities which  experience  business
disruption,  increased  costs or other  problems  associated  with the year 2000
issue may assert claims, which could be substantial, against their own insurance
carrier to recover  such costs or against  other  entities  for  damages.  These
carriers or entities may in turn assert that such potential  damages are covered
by  insurance.  Although some such claims have been made, it is not yet possible
to  determine  the extent to which such  claims will be made  against  insurers,
whether such claims will be held to have merit or whether any such claims may be
made  against   insurance  or   reinsurance   contracts  in  which  the  Company
participates.

SAFE HARBOR DISCLOSURE
In  connection  with the "safe  harbor"  provisions  of the  Private  Securities
Litigation  Reform  Act of 1995  (the  "Act"),  the  Company  sets  forth  below
cautionary statements  identifying important factors that, among others, in some
cases have affected and that could cause its actual results to differ materially
from  those  which  might  be  projected,   forecasted,   or  estimated  in  its
forward-looking  statements,  as defined in the Act, made by or on behalf of the
Company  in press  releases,  written  statements  or  documents  filed with the
Securities and Exchange  Commission,  or in its  communications  and discussions
with investors and analysts in the normal course of business  through  meetings,
phone calls and conference calls. These cautionary  statements  supplement other
factors  contained in this report which could cause the Company's actual results
to  differ  materially  from  those  which  might be  projected,  forecasted  or
estimated in its forward-looking statements.

Such forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to, projections
of premium revenue, investment income, other revenue, losses, expenses, earnings
(including earnings per share), cash flows, plans for future operations,  common
stockholders'  equity (including book value per share),  investments,  financing
needs, capital plans,  dividends,  plans relating to products or services of the
Company,  and estimates  concerning the effects of litigation or other disputes,
as well as assumptions for any of the foregoing and are generally expressed with
words  such  as  "believes,"  "estimates,"  "expects,"  "anticipates,"  "plans,"
"projects,"   "forecasts,"   "goals,"  "could  have,"  "may  have"  and  similar
expressions. Undue reliance on any forward-looking statements should be avoided.
The  Company   undertakes  no  obligation  to  publicly  update  or  revise  any
forward-looking  statements,  whether  as a result  of new  information,  future
events or otherwise.

Forward-looking  statements  involve known and unknown risks,  uncertainties and
other factors which may cause the Company's  results to differ  materially  from
such  forward-looking  statements.  Such risks,  uncertainties and other factors
include, but are not limited to, the following:

1)       Changes in the level of competition  in the domestic and  international
         reinsurance  or primary  insurance  markets that  adversely  affect the
         volume or  profitability  of the  Company's  reinsurance  or  insurance
         business.   These  changes  include,   but  are  not  limited  to,  the
         intensification of price and contract terms  competition,  the entry of
         new  competitors,   consolidation  in  the  reinsurance  and  insurance
         industry  and the  development  of new  products  by new  and  existing
         competitors;


2)       Changes in the demand for  reinsurance  and  insurance  products of the
         type  offered by the  Company  and its ceding  insurer customers;

3)       The ability of the Company to execute its strategies;

4)       Catastrophe  losses  in   the  Company's   domestic  or   international
         reinsurance or insurance business;

5)       Adverse  development on claim and claim expense  liabilities related to
         business  written  in  prior  years,  including,  but not  limited  to,
         evolving  case law and its  effect on  environmental  and other  latent
         injury  claims,  changing  government  regulations,   newly  identified
         toxins,  newly  reported  claims,  new  theories of  liability,  or new
         insurance and reinsurance contract interpretations;

6)       Greater than expected loss ratios on reinsurance  or  insurance written
         by the Company;

7)       Changes in inflation  that affect the  profitability  of the  Company's
         current  reinsurance  and insurance  businesses or the  adequacy of its
         claim and claim expense liabilities;

8)       Changes in the Company's retrocessional arrangements;

9)       Lower  than  estimated  retrocessional  or  reinsurance  recoveries  on
         losses,  including,  but not limited to, losses due to a decline in the
         creditworthiness of the Company's retrocessionaires or reinsurers;

10)      Changes   in  the   reinsurance/retrocessional  market   impacting  the
         Company's  ability to cede risks above its desired level of retention.

11)      Changes in interest rates,  increases in which cause a reduction in the
         market value of the Company's fixed income  investment  portfolio,  and
         its  common  stockholders'  equity,  and  decreases  in  which  cause a
         reduction of income earned on new cash flow from  operations as well as
         on the reinvestment of the proceeds from sales,  calls or maturities of
         existing investments;

12)      Decline in the value of the Company's common equity investments;

13)      Changes in the composition of the Company's investment portfolio;

14)      Gains or losses related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates;

15)      Changes in the role of reinsurance brokers and the relationship of  the
         Company with such brokers;

16)      Impact of year 2000  computer  hardware,  software and  microprocessors
         embedded in certain  equipment  issues on the Company's  operations and
         potential  for  year  2000  claims  under   reinsurance  and  insurance
         contracts written by the Company;

17)      Adverse results in litigation  matters, including,  but not limited to,
         litigation related to environmental, asbestos and  other potential mass
         tort claims;

18)      Changes in the Company's capital needs;

19)      Changes in the Company's ratings;

20)      The impact of current and future  regulatory  environments,  generally,
         and on the ability of  the  Company's subsidiaries to  enter  and  exit
         reinsurance or insurance markets;

21)      Changes  in  the  commission  or  brokerage levels that competitors are
         willing to offer to ceding companies, brokers or agents;

22)      Adverse changes in tax treatment of the Company's  business,  including
         changes  in tax  treatment  by the U.S., Bermuda or  Barbados  or other
         regulatory or political  organizations  with  jurisdiction or potential
         jurisdiction over the Company or its affiliates;

23)      Lack of success by Everest Bermuda in launching its start-up  operation
         in Bermuda;

24)      Changes in the regulatory  environment  or regulatory  challenges  that
         may restrict the ability of Everest  Bermuda to conduct business;

25)      Inability   of  Everest  Bermuda  to  arrange  security   to  back  its
         reinsurance; and

26)      Inability of Everest Bermuda to execute its  business  plan  because of
         inability to provide it financing.


In addition  to the  factors  outlined  above that are  directly  related to the
Company's  businesses,  the Company is also subject to general  business  risks,
including, but not limited to, adverse state, federal or foreign legislation and
regulation,  adverse  publicity or news  coverage,  changes in general  economic
factors, and the loss of key employees.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

See "Market Sensitive Instruments" in ITEM 7.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The financial  statements  and  schedules  listed in the  accompanying  Index to
Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1 are filed as part of this report.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING  AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Reference  is  made  to  the  sections   captioned   "Election  of   Directors",
"Information Concerning Nominees",  "Information Concerning Continuing Directors
and Executive  Officers" and "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act"
in the  Company's  proxy  statement  for the  2000  Annual  General  Meeting  of
Shareholders,  which  will be filed with the  Commission  within 120 days of the
close  of the  Company's  fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  1999  (the  "Proxy
Statement"), which sections are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Reference  is made  to the  sections  captioned  "Directors'  Compensation"  and
"Compensation  of  Executive  Officers"  in  the  Proxy  Statement,   which  are
incorporated herein by reference,  except that the Compensation Committee Report
and the Performance Graph are not so incorporated.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Reference is made to the sections captioned "Common Share Ownership by Directors
and Executive  Officers" and  "Principal  Holders of Common Shares" in the Proxy
Statement, which are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Reference is made to the section captioned "Certain Transactions with Directors"
in the Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES
The financial  statements  and  schedules  listed in the  accompanying  Index to
Financial Statements and Schedules on page F-1 are filed as part of this report.

EXHIBITS
The exhibits listed on the accompanying  Index to Exhibits on page E-1 are filed
as part of this report.

REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
A report on Form 8-K dated  December  28,  1999 was filed on  December  28, 1999
reporting that Holdings entered into a three-year $150 million  revolving credit
facility  with a syndicate of lenders.  A report on Form 8-K dated  February 23,
2000 was filed on February  24, 2000  reporting  the  completion  of a corporate
restructuring  involving the Company and reporting that Holdings entered into an
agreement with The Prudential  Insurance Company of America to acquire Gibraltar
Casualty Company.  A report on Form 8-K, dated March 14, 2000 was filed on March
15, 2000  reporting  that Holdings  closed its offering of 8.5% Senior Notes due
March 15, 2005 and 8.75% Senior Notes due March 15, 2010.


SIGNATURES

PURSUANT TO THE  REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934,  THE  REGISTRANT  HAS DULY  CAUSED  THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS
BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED ON MARCH 27, 2000.

                                 EVEREST RE GROUP, LTD.

                                 By:  /s/ JOSEPH V. TARANTO
                                      -------------------------------
                                      JOSEPH V. TARANTO
                                      (CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER)

PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS REPORT
HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING  PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE  REGISTRANT AND
IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.

/s/  JOSEPH V. TARANTO            Chairman and Chief              March 27, 2000
- -----------------------------     Executive Officer
     JOSEPH V. TARANTO            and Director

/s/  STEPHEN L. LIMAURO           Senior Vice President,          March 27, 2000
- -----------------------------    Chief Financial Officer,
     STEPHEN L. LIMAURO         Treasurer and Comptroller

/s/  MARTIN ABRAHAMS                    Director                  March 27, 2000
- -----------------------------
     MARTIN ABRAHAMS

/s/  KENNETH J. DUFFY                   Director                  March 27, 2000
- -----------------------------
     KENNETH J. DUFFY

/s/  JOHN R. DUNNE                      Director                  March 27, 2000
- -----------------------------
     JOHN R. DUNNE

/s/  THOMAS J. GALLAGHER                Director                  March 27, 2000
- -----------------------------
     THOMAS J. GALLAGHER


/s/  WILLIAM F. GALTNEY, JR.            Director                  March 27, 2000
- -----------------------------
     WILLIAM F. GALTNEY, JR.



INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES

                                                                           PAGES
                                                                           -----
EVEREST REINSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

     Reports of Independent Accountants on Financial
      Statements and Schedules...............................................F-2

     Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1999 and 1998...............F-3

     Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive
      Income for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997............F-4

     Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity
      for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997...................F-5

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
      December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.......................................F-6

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..............................F-7


SCHEDULES

I    Summary of Investments Other Than Investments in
      Related Parties at December 31, 1999...................................S-1


II   Condensed Financial Information of Registrant:
      Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998........................S-2

     Statements of Operations for the Years Ended
      December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.......................................S-3

     Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
      December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.......................................S-4


III  Supplementary Insurance Information as of December 31, 1999 and
      1998 and for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997..........S-5


IV   Reinsurance for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997........S-6



Schedules other than those listed above are omitted for the reason that they are
not  applicable  or the  information  is otherwise  contained  in the  Financial
Statements.

                                                                             F-1

REPORT OF  INDEPENDENT  ACCOUNTANTS


To  the Board of Directors  and  Shareholders of
Everest Reinsurance Holdings,  Inc.

In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  listed in the index on
page F-1 of this  Form  10-K  present  fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the
financial position of Everest Reinsurance Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 1999 and 1998,  and the results of their  operations and their cash
flows for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  December  31,  1999 in
conformity with accounting  principles  generally accepted in the United States.
In addition,  in our opinion,  the financial  statement  schedules listed in the
index on page F-1 of this Form 10-K present  fairly,  in all material  respects,
the  information  set forth  therein when read in  conjunction  with the related
consolidated  financial  statements.  These  financial  statements and financial
statement  schedules are the  responsibility  of the Company's  management;  our
responsibility  is to  express  an opinion  on these  financial  statements  and
financial  statement  schedules based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of
these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United  States,  which  require  that we plan and  perform  the  audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the  amounts  and  disclosures  in  the  financial  statements,   assessing  the
accounting  principles  used and significant  estimates made by management,  and
evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.



PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New  York
February  9, 2000
Except for Notes 1 and 15, as to which the date is
March 14, 2000



F-2

EVEREST REINSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

The  accompanying  notes  are an  integral  part of the  consolidated  financial
statements.

                                                                             F-3

EVEREST REINSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

The  accompanying  notes  are an  integral  part of the  consolidated  financial
statements.

F-4

EVEREST REINSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES
IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

The  accompanying  notes  are  an  integral  part  of the consolidated financial
statements.

                                                                             F-5

EVEREST REINSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

The accompanying  notes  are  an  integral  part  of  the consolidated financial
statements.

F-6

EVEREST REINSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997


1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

A.  BUSINESS AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION
Everest Re Group, Ltd. ("Group"),  a Bermuda company, was established in 1999 as
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Everest Reinsurance Holdings, Inc. ("Holdings"). On
February 24, 2000, a corporate  restructuring was completed and Group became the
new parent  holding  company of  Holdings.  Holders of  Holdings'  common  stock
automatically became holders of the same number of Group common shares. Prior to
the restructuring, Group had no significant assets or capitalization and had not
engaged in any business or prior  activities  other than in connection  with the
restructuring.  Group,  through its subsidiaries,  principally provides property
and casualty reinsurance and insurance in the United States and internationally.
As used in this document, the "Company" means Group and its subsidiaries, except
when referring to periods prior to February 24, 2000, when it means Holdings and
its subsidiaries.

The  accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements  have  been  prepared  in
conformity  with generally accepted accounting  principles in the United States.
The  statements  include the following  domestic and foreign direct and indirect
subsidiaries  of  Holdings:   Group,  Everest  Re  Merger  Corporation,  Everest
Reinsurance Company ("Everest Re"), Everest National Insurance Company ("Everest
National"), Everest Indemnity Insurance Company ("Everest  Indemnity"),  Everest
Re  Holdings,  Ltd. ("Everest Ltd."), a Bermuda  domiciled successor company  of
Everest Re Ltd. (the assets of which funded  Everest Ltd. and which was formerly
known as Everest  Reinsurance  Ltd.) and Everest  Insurance  Company  of  Canada
("Everest  Canada").  They  also  include  Mt. McKinley  Managers,  L.L.C. ("Mt.
McKinley"),  which was formed by Holdings and Everest National  in  1997  as  an
insurance  producer  and  which  acquired  in 1998 the assets of certain  agency
operations in Alabama and Georgia which now operate as Workcare Southeast,  Inc.
("Workcare  Southeast")  and  Workcare  Southeast  of  Georgia,  Inc. ("Workcare
Georgia").  Everest  National  also  acquired  an  agency  operation  in  Texas,
Workcare, Inc.  The acquisition price of these three agency operations  was $2.9
million and the  transaction occurred  on July 1, 1998.  These acquisitions have
been accounted for by the purchase method.  All  material intercompany  balances
and  transactions  have  been  eliminated  in  consolidation.  All  amounts  are
reported in U.S. dollars.

The preparation of financial  statements in conformity  with generally  accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the  reported  amounts  of assets  and  liabilities  (and  disclosure  of
contingent  assets and liabilities) at the date of the financial  statements and
the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses  during the  reporting  period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

B.  INVESTMENTS
Fixed  maturity  investments  are  classified as available for sale.  Unrealized
appreciation and depreciation,  as a result of temporary changes in market value
during the period, are reflected in "accumulated other comprehensive income" net
of income taxes in stockholders'  equity.  Unrealized  losses,  which are deemed
other than  temporary,  are charged to net income.  Short-term  investments  are
stated at cost, which approximates  market value.  Equity securities are carried
at market value with unrealized appreciation or depreciation,  net of applicable
deferred  income tax,  credited or charged  directly  to  stockholder's  equity.
Realized gains or losses on sale of  investments  are determined on the basis of
identified  cost.  With respect to  securities  which are not  publicly  traded,
market value has been determined  based on pricing  models.  For publicly traded
securities, market value is based on quoted market prices. Other invested assets
include limited  partnerships  and rabbi trusts.  The limited  partnerships  are
valued pursuant to the equity method of accounting,  which  approximates  market
value. The Supplemental Retirement Plan rabbi trust is carried at market  value,
while the Deferred  Compensation Plan rabbi trust and Supplemental  Savings Plan
rabbi trust are carried at cost.  Cash includes cash and bank time deposits with
original maturities of ninety days or under.

C.  UNCOLLECTIBLE REINSURANCE BALANCES
The Company provides  reserves for uncollectible  reinsurance  balances based on
management's  assessment of the collectibility of the outstanding balances. Such
reserves  were $25.3  million at December 31, 1999 and $25.1 million at December
31, 1998. See also Note 7.

                                                                             F-7

D.  DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS
Acquisition costs,  consisting principally of commissions and brokerage expenses
and  certain  premium  taxes  and fees  associated  with the  Company's  primary
insurance  business  incurred  at the time a contract  or policy is issued,  are
deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned,
generally  one year.  Deferred  policy  acquisition  costs are  limited to their
estimated  realizable value based on the related unearned premiums,  anticipated
claims  and  claim  expenses  and  anticipated   investment   income.   Deferred
acquisition  costs amortized to income were $280.3  million,  $269.2 million and
$270.6 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

E.  LOSS AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE RESERVE
The  reserve  for  unpaid  losses  and  loss  adjustment  expenses  is  based on
individual  case  estimates  and  reports  received  from  ceding  companies.  A
provision is included for losses and loss adjustment  expenses  incurred but not
reported  ("IBNR")  based on past  experience.  A provision is also included for
certain potential liabilities relating to asbestos and environmental  exposures,
which liabilities cannot be estimated with traditional reserving techniques. See
also Note 11. The reserves are reviewed continually and any changes in estimates
are  reflected  in earnings  in the period the  adjustment  is made.  Management
believes that adequate  provision has been made for the Company's  loss and loss
adjustment  expenses.  Loss and loss adjustment  expense  reserves are presented
gross of  reinsurance  receivables  and  incurred  losses  and  loss  adjustment
expenses are presented net of ceded reinsurance.

Accruals for contingent  commission  liabilities are established for reinsurance
contracts  that  provide  for the stated  commission  percentage  to increase or
decrease based on the loss experience of the contract.  Changes in the estimated
liability for such arrangements are recorded as contingent commissions. Accruals
for contingent  commission  liabilities are determined through the review of the
contracts  that  have  these  adjustable  features  and are  estimated  based on
expected loss and loss adjustment expenses.

F.  PREMIUM REVENUES
Premiums  written are earned  ratably over the periods of the related  insurance
and reinsurance contracts or policies. Unearned premium reserves are established
to cover the  remainder of the  unexpired  contract  period.  Such  reserves are
established  based upon reports received from ceding companies or computed using
pro rata methods based on statistical data. Written and earned premiums, and the
related costs, which have not yet been reported to the Company are estimated and
accrued. Premiums are net of retrocessions (ceded reinsurance).

G.  INCOME TAXES
The Company and its  subsidiaries,  where  required,  file their own federal tax
returns and calculate their current tax provisions accordingly.  Deferred income
taxes have been  recorded to recognize  the tax effect of temporary  differences
between the financial  reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities.
Current tax  liabilities  were  determined for individual  companies  based upon
their separate return basis taxable income. Members with taxable income incurred
an amount in lieu of the separate return basis federal tax.  Members with a loss
for tax purposes  recognized a current  benefit in  proportion  to the amount of
their losses utilized in computing consolidated taxable income.

H.  FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
Assets and liabilities  relating to foreign  operations are translated into U.S.
dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date;  revenues and
expenses are translated into U.S.  dollars using average  exchange rates.  Gains
and losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements, net
of deferred  income  taxes,  are  excluded  from net income and  accumulated  in
stockholder's equity.

F-8

I.  EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic  earnings per share is  calculated  by dividing net income by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share reflects
the potential  dilution  that could occur if  securities  or other  contracts to
issue common shares were  exercised or converted  into common shares or resulted
in the issuance of common shares that then shared in the earnings of the entity.

Net income per common share has been computed below in accordance  with SFAS No.
128, based upon weighted average common and dilutive shares outstanding.


Options to purchase  1,339,451  common  shares at prices  ranging from $23.94 to
$39.16 per share,  738,600 common shares at prices ranging from $37.41 to $39.16
per share and 337,750 common shares at $39.16 per share were  outstanding at the
end of  1999,  1998  and  1997,  respectively,  but  were  not  included  in the
computation of earnings per diluted share for the respective years,  because the
options'  exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common
shares at the end of such years. The options, which expire between June 10, 2006
and April 1, 2009,  September  26, 2007 and September 25, 2008 and September 26,
2007, respectively, were still outstanding at the end of 1999 with the exception
of 12,900 and 32,500 shares,  which were not included in the  computation at the
end of 1998 and 1997, respectively.

J.   SEGMENTATION
In June 1997,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board issued  Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 131,  "Disclosures about Segments of
an Enterprise and Related Information". This statement establishes standards for
the way a public enterprise reports  information about its operating segments in
its financial  statements.  The Company,  through its subsidiaries,  operates in
five segments: U.S. Broker Treaty, U.S. Direct Treaty Reinsurance and Insurance,
U.S. Facultative,  Marine,  Aviation and Surety and International.  The segments
reported in 1999 have changed from what was reported in 1998.  The  presentation
of  segments  for  1998  and  1997 has  been  modified  to  conform  to the 1999
presentation. See also Note 14

K.  FUTURE APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
The  Financial   Accounting   Standards  Board  issued  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards ("SFAS") No. 133,  "Accounting for Derivative  Instruments
and  Hedging  Activities".   This  statement  requires  all  derivatives  to  be
recognized  as either  assets  or  liabilities  in the  statement  of  financial
position and to be measured at fair value.  This statement has been subsequently
deferred  to be  effective  for all  periods  beginning  after  June  15,  2000.
Management  believes that the statement  will not have a material  impact on the
financial position of the Company.

                                                                             F-9

2.  INVESTMENTS

The  amortized  cost,  market  value,  and  gross  unrealized  appreciation  and
depreciation of fixed maturity  investments and equity  securities are presented
in the tables below:

The  amortized  cost  and  market  value of fixed  maturities  are  shown in the
following table by contractual  maturity.  Mortgage-backed  securities generally
are more likely to be prepaid than other fixed maturites. As the stated maturity
of such  securities  may not be indicative of actual  maturities,  the total for
mortgage-backed securities is shown separately.


Proceeds from sales of fixed  maturity  investments  during 1999,  1998 and 1997
were $665.9  million,  $373.3 million and $880.2  million,  respectively.  Gross
gains of $0.9 million,  $6.3 million and $6.8 million, and gross losses of $28.5
million, $6.6 million and $9.4 million were realized on those sales during 1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively.

F-10

The  changes in net  unrealized  gains  (losses) of  investments  of the Company
(including  unrealized  gains and losses on fixed  maturities  not  reflected in
stockholders' equity) are derived from the following sources:

The components of net investment income are presented in the table below:

The  components of realized  capital  (losses)  gains are presented in the table
below:

Securities  with a carrying  value amount of $256.4 million at December 31, 1999
were on deposit with various  state or  governmental  insurance  departments  in
compliance with insurance laws.

                                                                            F-11

3.  RESERVE FOR LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES

Activity in the reserve for losses and loss adjustment expenses is summarized as
follows:

Prior year  incurred  losses  decreased by $35.4  million in 1999,  increased by
$26.1 million in 1998 and decreased by $3.2 million in 1997.  These changes were
the  result  of  normal  reserve  development  inherent  in the  uncertainty  in
establishing  loss and LAE reserves,  as well as the impact of foreign  exchange
rate  fluctuations  on loss  reserves and changes in the  Company's  coinsurance
under the Stop Loss Agreement. See also Note 7.

4.    CREDIT LINE

On December 21, 1999, Holdings entered into a three-year senior revolving credit
facility  with a  syndicate  of lenders  (the  "Credit  Facility").  First Union
National Bank is the  administrative  agent for the Credit Facility.  The Credit
Facility  will be used for  liquidity  and  general  corporate  purposes  and to
refinance  existing debt under Holdings' prior credit  facility,  which has been
terminated.  The Credit  Facility  provides  for the  borrowing  of up to $150.0
million with  interest at a rate selected by the Company equal to either (i) the
Base Rate (as defined below) or (ii) an adjusted London  InterBank  Offered Rate
("LIBOR")  plus a margin.  The Base Rate is the  higher of the rate of  interest
established  by First Union National Bank from time to time as its prime rate or
the  Federal  Funds rate plus 0.5% per annum.  The amount of margin and the fees
payable for the Credit  Facility  depend upon  Holdings'  senior  unsecured debt
rating  or,  if such is not  available,  on the  financial  strength  rating  of
Holdings'  subsidiary,  Everest  Re.  Group  has  guaranteed  all  of  Holdings'
obligations under the Credit Facility.

The Credit Facility  agreement  requires  Holdings to maintain a debt to capital
ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1, a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.5 to
1 and to maintain  Everest Re's statutory  surplus at $850.0 million plus 25% of
future aggregate net income and 25% of future aggregate  capital  contributions.
Everest Re's statutory  surplus was $1,147.6 million for the year ended December
31, 1999.  Holdings'  debt to capital ratio was 0.04 for the year ended December
31, 1999.  Holdings'  minimum interest coverage ratio was 3.5 for the year ended
December 31, 1999.

As of December 31, 1999 and 1998,  Holdings had outstanding  borrowings of $59.0
million and $0.0 million, respectively.  Interest expense incurred in connection
with these borrowings was $1.5 million based on a weighted average interest rate
of 5.8%, $0.0 million and $0.0 million for the periods ending December 31, 1999,
December 31, 1998 and December 31, 1997, respectively.

F-12

5.  OPERATING LEASE AGREEMENTS

The future minimum rental commitments,  exclusive of cost escalation clauses, at
December  31, 1999 for all of the  Company's  operating  leases  with  remaining
non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows:

All of these leases,  the expiration terms of which range from 2000 to 2008, are
for the rental of office space.  Rental expense,  net of sublease rental income,
was $4.2  million,  $5.3  million  and $4.9  million  for  1999,  1998 and 1997,
respectively.

6.  INCOME TAXES

The components of income taxes for the periods presented are as follows:


A reconciliation of the U.S. federal income tax rate to the Company's  effective
tax rate is as follows:


                                                                            F-13

Deferred  income  taxes  reflect  the tax  effect of the  temporary  differences
between the value of assets and liabilities for financial statement purposes and
such values as measured by the tax laws and  regulations.  The  principal  items
making up the net deferred income tax asset are as follows:

Holdings  and  other  non-insurance  companies  have  total net  operating  loss
carryforwards  of $5.6 million which expire during years  2001-2020.  Management
believes  that it is more  likely  than not that the  Company  will  realize the
benefits of its net deferred tax assets and, accordingly, no valuation allowance
has been recorded for the periods presented.

7.  RETROCESSIONS

The  Company  utilizes  retrocessional  (reinsurance)  agreements  to reduce its
exposure to large claims and  catastrophic  loss  occurrences.  These agreements
provide  for  recovery  from  retrocessionaires  of a portion of losses and loss
expenses  under  certain  circumstances  without  relieving  the  insurer of its
obligation to the policyholder. Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred and
earned   premiums  are  after   deduction  for   retrocessions.   In  the  event
retrocessionaires  were  unable to meet  their  obligations  under  retrocession
agreements,  the  Company  would not be able to  realize  the full  value of the
reinsurance  recoverable  balances.  The  Company may hold  partial  collateral,
including  letters of credit,  under these  agreements  and has never suffered a
significant loss because of a retrocessionaire's default. See Note 1(C).

Effective  October 5, 1995,  Everest Re entered into a stop loss  agreement (the
"Stop Loss  Agreement")  with Gibraltar  Casualty  Company  ("Gibraltar").  This
agreement, for a premium of $140.0 million,  provides protection against 100% of
the first  $150.0  million of adverse  development,  if any, and 90% of the next
$250.0  million of adverse  development,  if any, of Everest  Re's  consolidated
reserves for losses and uncollectible reinsurance as of June 30, 1995, including
allocated loss adjustment expense and incurred but not reported losses, provided
that adverse development,  if any, relating to catastrophes will be covered only
to the extent that the catastrophe  event occurred prior to January 1, 1995. All
such  adverse  development  is  referred  to  herein as  "Adverse  Development".
Payments  will be made to  Everest Re under the Stop Loss  Agreement  as Adverse
Development  is incurred by Everest Re.  Coverage  under the Stop Loss Agreement
terminates on December 31, 2007,  or earlier if coverage is  exhausted.  Through
December  31,  1999 and  1998,  cessions  under  the Stop  Loss  Agreement  have
aggregated $285.6 million and $339.2 million,  respectively,  yielding remaining
limits,  net of coinsurance,  of $89.4 million and $35.8 million at December 31,
1999 and 1998, respectively.

F-14

The  Prudential  has,  subject  to the terms and  conditions  of the  guarantee,
guaranteed all of Gibraltar's  payment obligations under the Stop Loss Agreement
and up to $400.0 million of Gibraltar's net payment  obligations under all other
reinsurance agreements between Gibraltar and Everest Re, $167.3 million of which
has been discharged by loss payments made to the Company  subsequent to June 30,
1995. See Note 15(C). At December 31, 1999,  Gibraltar's  net obligations  under
such other reinsurance agreements consisted of the following balances:

During the first quarter of 1999,  Gibraltar  disputed $63.0 million ceded under
the Stop Loss Agreement in the fourth  quarter of 1998.  Gibraltar also disputed
the Company's level of reserves  previously ceded to and paid by Gibraltar under
the Stop Loss  Agreement and claimed a refund of $91.7  million.  These disputes
were based on Gibraltar's belief that there were redundancies in that portion of
Everest  Re's IBNR  reserves  which  were  subject  to the Stop Loss  Agreement.
Pursuant  to the  terms of the Stop Loss  Agreement,  Everest  Re and  Gibraltar
appointed an independent examiner to review the reserves underlying the disputed
amounts to  determine  the  appropriate  amount of  cessions to  Gibraltar,  and
Everest Re placed the $91.7 million in a trust.

In December 1999, the  independent  examiner issued its findings with respect to
the disputed  amounts.  As a result of these  findings and the Company's  normal
year end reserve review,  Everest Re and Gibraltar resolved these disputes.  The
resolution resulted in Everest Re reducing its gross reserves for 1995 and prior
periods  by $67.6  million  and  reducing  its  claim to the Stop  Loss by $60.8
million.  Everest Re will also  receive  $2.3  million in  additional  cash from
Gibraltar as a result of the revised  billing and the trust noted above has been
terminated.  The gross coverage limit under the Stop Loss  Agreement,  excluding
cessions of $8.0  million in the fourth  quarter of 1999,  has been  restored to
$107.4 million. As a result, Everest Re will receive $9.5 million from Gibraltar
in the first quarter of 2000.  Pursuant to the Stop Loss  Agreement,  Everest Re
will  continue to evaluate its reserves  each quarter to determine if additional
cessions are appropriate.

During the first quarter of 1999, Gibraltar disputed $39.7 million ceded under a
1986 quota  share  reinsurance  ("Direct  Excess  Retrocession")  through  which
Gibraltar assumed 100% of the liabilities  related to Everest Re's former direct
excess insurance  operations  which ceased writing  business in 1985.  Gibraltar
then  commenced an arbitration  proceeding in accordance  with the Direct Excess
Retrocession. Gibraltar disputed the level of reserves established by Everest Re
primarily  reflecting  reserves  for  asbestos  losses and Everest Re's right to
determine these reserves,  but Gibraltar did not dispute its  responsibility  to
pay the  ultimate  losses  in  accordance  with the terms of the  Direct  Excess
Retrocession.  As a result of the dispute, Gibraltar initially failed to provide
funds  or  security  to  Everest  Re in  order  to  secure  Gibraltar's  payment
obligations  to Everest  Re in  accordance  with the terms of the Direct  Excess
Retrocession.  However, throughout the remainder of 1999, Gibraltar has provided
substantially  all of the  required  funding to  Everest  Re and  Everest Re and
Gibraltar  agreed  to  halt  the  arbitration  proceeding  and to  postpone  the
resolution of the remaining  disputed  issues.  Management  does not expect that
this  dispute  will  have a  material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  future
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Written and earned premiums are comprised of the following:

The amounts deducted from losses and loss adjustment  expenses  incurred for net
retrocessional  recoveries were $7.4 million,  $357.4 million and $109.6 million
for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

                                                                            F-15

8.  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

The components of comprehensive income for the periods ending December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997 are shown in the following table:

The  following  table shows the  components of the change in  accumulated  other
comprehensive income for the years ending December 31, 1999 and 1998.

F-16

9.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

The Company maintains both a qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension
plan for its U.S. employees.  Generally, the Company computes the benefits based
on average earnings over a period prescribed by the plans and credited length of
service.  The  Company  has  not  been  required  to fund  contributions  to its
qualified defined benefit pension plan for the years ended December 31, 1999 and
1998  because  the  Company's  qualified  plan was  subject to the full  funding
limitation  under  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  guidelines.   The  Company's
non-qualified  defined  benefit  pension  plan,  established  in 1998,  provides
compensating   pension  benefits  for  participants  whose  benefits  have  been
curtailed  under the qualified  plan due to Internal  Revenue Code  limitations.
Pension  expense for the Company's  plans for the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997 were $1.5 million, $1.6 million and $0.8 million, respectively.


The following table summarizes the status of these plans:

Plan assets are comprised of shares in investment trusts with  approximately 67%
and 33% of the  underlying  assets  consisting  of equity  securities  and fixed
maturities, respectively.

Net periodic pension cost included the following components:

The weighted  average  discount  rates used to determine the  actuarial  present
value of the  projected  benefit  obligation  for 1999,  1998 and 1997 are 7.5%,
6.75%  and  7.00%,  respectively.  The  rate  of  compensation increase used  to
determine the actuarial  present value of the projected  benefit  obligation for
1999,  1998 and 1997 is 4.50%.  The  expected  long-term  rate of return on plan
assets for 1999, 1998 and 1997 is 9.0%.

                                                                            F-17

The Company also maintains both qualified and non-qualified defined contribution
plans ("Savings Plan" and "Non-Qualified  Savings Plan",  respectively) covering
U.S.  employees.  Under the plans, the Company contributes up to a maximum 3% of
the  participants  compensation  based  on the  contribution  percentage  of the
employee.  The  Non-Qualified  Savings Plan provides  compensating  savings plan
benefits for  participants  whose benefits have been curtailed under the Savings
Plan due to Internal Revenue Code limitations.  The Company's  incurred expenses
related to these plans were $0.6  million,  $0.5  million  and $0.5  million for
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

In addition,  the Company maintains several defined  contribution  pension plans
covering non-U.S.  employees.  Each branch office (Canada, London, Belgium, Hong
Kong and Singapore) maintains a separate plan for the non-U.S. employees working
in that location.  The Company contributes various amounts based on salary, age,
and/or years of service.  The  contributions  as a percentage  of salary for the
branch  offices range from 2% to 12%. The  contributions  are generally  used to
purchase pension benefits from local insurance providers. The Company's incurred
expenses related to these plans were $0.3 million, $0.3 million and $0.7 million
for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

During 1998, the Company adopted a Senior  Executive  Change of Control Plan and
entered into a change of control  agreement  with the Chief  Executive  Officer,
which will  provide  benefits  to certain  officers  in the event of a change in
control of the Company.

10. DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS AND STATUTORY FINANCIAL INFORMATION

A.  DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS
Under Bermuda law,  Group is prohibited  from  declaring or paying a dividend if
such payment would reduce the  realizable  value of its assets to an amount less
than the  aggregate  value of its  liabilities  and its issued share capital and
share premium  (additional  paid-in  capital)  accounts.  Group's ability to pay
dividends  and its  operating  expenses is  dependent  upon  dividends  from its
subsidiaries.  The payment of such dividends by insurer  subsidiaries is limited
under  Bermuda  and the  United  States  laws in  which  Group's  insurance  and
reinsurance  subsidiaries are licensed to transact business. The limitations are
generally based upon net income and compliance  with  applicable  policyholders'
surplus  or  minimum  solvency  margin  and  liquidity  ratio   requirements  as
determined in accordance with the relevant statutory accounting practices.

Under Bermuda law, Bermuda Re is unable to declare or pay a dividend if it fails
to meet its minimum  solvency  margin or minimum  liquidity  ratio,  or if after
payment of the dividend, it fails to meet its minimum solvency margin or minimum
liquidity ratio. As a long-term insurer, Bermuda Re is also unable to declare or
pay a dividend to anyone who is not a policyholder  unless, after payment of the
dividend,  the value of the assets in its long-term  business fund, as certified
by its approved  actuary,  exceeds its liabilities for long-term  business by at
least the  $250,000  minimum  solvency  margin.  Prior  approval  of the Bermuda
Minister of Finance is required if Bermuda Re's dividend  payments  would reduce
its prior year-end total statutory capital by 15.0% or more.

Delaware law provides  that an  insurance  company  which is either an insurance
holding  company or a member of an insurance  holding system and is domiciled in
the state shall not pay dividends  without  giving prior notice to the Insurance
Commissioner  of Delaware and may not pay dividends  without the approval of the
Insurance Commissioner if the value of the proposed dividend,  together with all
other dividends and distributions  made in the preceding twelve months,  exceeds
the greater of (1) 10% of  statutory  surplus or (2) net income,  not  including
realized  capital gains,  each as reported in the prior year's  statutory annual
statement.  In addition,  no dividend may be paid in excess of unassigned earned
surplus.  At December  31, 1999,  Everest Re had $166.5  million  available  for
payment of dividends in 2000 without prior regulatory approval.

B.  STATUTORY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Everest Re prepares  its  statutory  financial  statements  in  accordance  with
accounting  practices  prescribed  or permitted by the National  Association  of
Insurance   Commissioners   ("NAIC")  and  the  Delaware  Insurance  Department.
Prescribed  statutory  accounting  practices  are  set  forth  in a  variety  of
publications  of the  NAIC,  as well as state  laws,  regulations,  and  general
administrative  rules.  The  capital  and  statutory  surplus  of Everest Re was
$1,147.6   million  and  $1,059.4   million  at  December  31,  1999  and  1998,
respectively.  The statutory net income of Everest Re was $149.9 million, $176.7
million and $193.1 million for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

F-18

11. CONTINGENCIES

Everest Re continues  to receive  claims under  expired  contracts  which assert
alleged injuries and/or damages relating to or resulting from toxic torts, toxic
waste and other hazardous  substances,  such as asbestos.  Everest Re's asbestos
claims typically involve liability or potential liability for bodily injury from
exposure to asbestos or for property damage  resulting from asbestos or products
containing  asbestos.   Everest  Re's  environmental  claims  typically  involve
potential  liability for (i) the  mitigation  or  remediation  of  environmental
contamination or (ii) bodily injury or property damages caused by the release of
hazardous substances into the land, air or water.

Everest Re's reserves include an estimate of Everest Re's ultimate liability for
asbestos and  environmental  claims for which ultimate value cannot be estimated
using traditional reserving techniques.  There are significant  uncertainties in
estimating  the  amount of Everest  Re's  potential  losses  from  asbestos  and
environmental  claims. Among the complications are: (i) potentially long waiting
periods  between  exposure and  manifestation  of any bodily  injury or property
damage;  (ii)  difficulty in  identifying  sources of asbestos or  environmental
contamination;  (iii) difficulty in properly  allocating  responsibility  and/or
liability for asbestos or environmental  damage; (iv) changes in underlying laws
and judicial  interpretation  of those laws;  (v)  potential  for an asbestos or
environmental  claim to  involve  many  insurance  providers  over  many  policy
periods;  (vi) long reporting delays,  both from insureds to insurance companies
and ceding companies to reinsurers;  (vii)  historical data concerning  asbestos
and environmental  losses, which is more limited than historical  information on
other types of casualty claims;  (viii) questions concerning  interpretation and
application  of  insurance  and  reinsurance  coverage;   and  (ix)  uncertainty
regarding  the number and  identity  of  insureds  with  potential  asbestos  or
environmental exposure.

Although these complications have become less severe in recent years, management
believes  that these  factors  continue  to render  reserves  for  asbestos  and
environmental losses significantly less subject to traditional actuarial methods
than  are  reserves  on  other  types  of  losses.  Given  these  uncertainties,
management  believes  that no meaningful  range for such ultimate  losses can be
established. Everest Re establishes reserves to the extent that, in the judgment
of  management,  the facts and prevailing law reflect an exposure for Everest Re
or its ceding company.  Due to the  uncertainties  discussed above, the ultimate
losses may vary materially from current loss reserves and, if coverage under the
Stop Loss  Agreement is exhausted,  could have a material  adverse effect on the
Company's future financial  condition, results of operations and cash flows. See
Note 7 and 15(C).

The  following   table  shows  the   development  of  prior  year  asbestos  and
environmental  reserves on both a gross and net of retrocessional  basis for the
years ended:

- ------------------
(1) Net of $0.0 million,  $138.5  million and $41.2 million ceded in 1999,  1998
and 1997,  respectively,  under the incurred loss  reimbursement  feature of the
Stop Loss Agreement.
(2) Net of $118.8 million,  $39.7 million and $22.6 million ceded paid losses in
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, under the Stop Loss Agreement.

At December 31, 1999, the gross reserves for asbestos and  environmental  losses
were comprised of $146.9 million  representing  case reserves reported by ceding
companies,  $70.8 million  representing  additional case reserves established by
Everest  Re on assumed  reinsurance  claims,  $47.3  million  representing  case
reserves  established by Everest Re on direct excess insurance claims and $349.2
million representing IBNR reserves.

To the extent loss reserves for claims  incurred on June 30, 1995  (December 31,
1994 for  catastrophe  losses)  or prior on  assumed  reinsurance  needed  to be
increased,  and  were  not  ceded  to  unaffiliated  reinsurers  under  existing
reinsurance  agreements,  Everest Re would be entitled to certain reimbursements
under  the  Stop  Loss  Agreement.  See  Note 7.  To  the  extent  loss reserves
on direct  excess  insurance  policies  needed  to be  increased  and  were  not
ceded  to   unaffiliated  reinsurers  under   existing  reinsurance  agreements,
Everest  Re  would  be  entitled  to  100%  protection  under a 100% quota share
retrocession  entered  into  with  Gibraltar  in  1986.   While   there  can  be
no   assurance   that  reserves  for   and   losses  from   these  claims  would

                                                                            F-19

not increase in the future,  management  believes  that  Everest  Re's  existing
reserves and ceded reinsurance  arrangements and reimbursements  available under
the Stop Loss Agreement  lessen the  probability  that such  increases,  if any,
would have a material  effect on Everest Re's  financial  condition,  results of
operations or cash flows.  Everest Re does not intend to enter any new stop loss
agreements with respect to exposures  arising from periods prior to July 1, 1995
if the current  Stop Loss  Agreement  with  Gibraltar  is  exhausted  or when it
terminates. See Note 15(C).

Everest Re is also named in various legal  proceedings  incidental to its normal
business  activities.  In the opinion of Everest  Re, none of these  proceedings
would have a material  adverse effect upon the financial  condition,  results of
operations or cash flows of Everest Re.

The  Prudential  sells  annuities  which are  purchased by property and casualty
insurance  companies to settle certain types of claim  liabilities.  In 1993 and
prior,  Everest  Re,  for a fee,  accepted  the claim  payment obligation of the
property  and  casualty  insurer,  and,  concurrently,  became  the owner of the
annuity or assignee of the annuity proceeds. In these circumstances,  Everest Re
would be liable if The Prudential were unable to make the annuity payments.  The
estimated  cost  to  replace  all  such  annuities  for  which  Everest  Re  was
contingently  liable at December 31, 1999 and 1998 was $146.2 million and $143.2
million, respectively.

Everest Re has purchased  annuities from an unaffiliated  life insurance company
to settle  certain claim  liabilities  of Everest Re. Should the life  insurance
company become unable to make the annuity payments,  Everest Re would be liable.
The estimated  cost to replace such  annuities at December 31, 1999 and 1998 was
$11.7 million and $10.8 million, respectively.

12. STOCK BASED COMPENSATION PLANS

The Company has in place its 1995 Stock  Incentive  Plan for key employees  (the
`1995 Employee  Plan"),  its 1995 Stock Option Plan for  Non-Employee  Directors
(the "1995 Director  Plan") and a 1999 Stock Option  Agreement for  Non-Employee
Directors  (the  "1999  Agreement")  and  applies  APB  Opinion  25 and  related
interpretations   in  accounting  for  these  plans  and  the  1999   Agreement.
Accordingly,  no compensation  expense has been  recognized in the  accompanying
financial  statements in respect of stock options  granted under these plans and
the 1999 Agreement.

Under the 1995 Employee  Plan, a total of 3,949,000  shares of common stock have
been authorized to be granted as stock options, stock awards or restricted stock
awards to officers and key employees of the Company. At December 31, 1999, there
were 1,461,651 remaining shares available to be granted. Under the 1995 Director
Plan,  a total of 50,000  shares  of common  stock  have been  authorized  to be
granted as stock options to non-employee  directors of the Company.  At December
31, 1999, there were 38,145 remaining shares available to be granted.  Under the
1999  Agreement,  a total of 26,000  shares of common stock have been granted as
stock options to  non-employee  directors of the Company.  Options granted under
the 1995  Employee  Plan vest at 20% per year over five years,  options  granted
under the 1995  Director  Plan  vest at 50% per year over two years and  options
granted  under the 1999  Agreement  vest at 33% per year over three  years.  All
options are  exercisable  at fair market value of the stock at the date of grant
and expire ten years after the date of grant. Restricted stock granted under the
1995 Employee Plan vests,  beginning one year after the date of grant,  in equal
annual installments over five years.

A summary of the status of the Company's  stock options as of December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997 and changes during the years then ended is presented below:

F-20

The following table summarizes  information  about stock options  outstanding at
December 31, 1999:

Since its 1995 initial  public  offering,  the Company has issued to certain key
employees of the Company  58,100  restricted  shares of stock.  Upon issuance of
restricted shares,  unearned compensation is charged to stockholders' equity for
the cost of the restricted  stock and is amortized over the vesting period.  The
amount of earned  compensation  recognized as expense with respect to restricted
stock  awards  was  $131,667,  $98,505  and  $202,977  for 1999,  1998 and 1997,
respectively.  In 1998,  10,460  restricted  shares were forfeited,  while 6,400
restricted  shares were  forfeited in 1997.  The Company  acquired 1,047 shares,
1,680 shares and 30,887 shares of its common stock at a cost of $28,989, $57,641
and $845,598 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.  The 1997  acquisitions were
primarily from the Chief Executive Officer,  to fund required  withholding taxes
arising  from  a  prior  period  stock  award.   Also,   the  Company   recorded
contributions of paid in capital  representing the tax benefits  attributable to
the difference  between the amount of  compensation  expense  deductible for tax
purposes  with respect to the stock  awards and the amount of such  compensation
expense reflected in the Company's financial statements.

Had the compensation cost for the Company's stock based  compensation plans been
determined  based on the fair value at the grant  dates for awards  under  those
plans  consistent  with the method of SFAS No. 123, the Company's net income and
earnings  per share would have been reduced to the pro forma  amounts  indicated
below:

The fair value of each option  grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions:  (i) dividend
yields ranging from 0.5% to 0.8%; (ii) expected volatility ranging from 32.9% to
34.8%;  (iii)  risk-free  interest rates ranging from a low of 4.7% to a high of
7.0%; and (iv) expected life of 7.5 years.

In addition to the 1995 Employee Plan and 1995 Director Plan, the Company issued
5,260,  4,537 and 3,685 shares of treasury  stock  having an aggregate  value of
$160,000,  $179,135 and $131,250 to its  non-employee  directors as compensation
for their service as directors in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

13. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS

During the normal  course of  business,  the  Company,  through its  affiliates,
engages  in  arms-length  reinsurance  and  brokerage  and  commission  business
transactions with companies controlled or affiliated with its outside directors.
These transactions are immaterial to the Company's financial condition,  results
of operations and cash flows.

14. SEGMENT REPORTING

The Company,  through its subsidiaries,  operates in five segments:  U.S. Broker
Treaty, U.S Direct Treaty Reinsurance and Insurance,  U.S. Facultative,  Marine,
Aviation and Surety and International.  These segments are generally referred to
as  operations  in this  document.  The  U.S.  Broker  Treaty  operation  writes
property,  accident  and health and  casualty  reinsurance  through  reinsurance
brokers  within  the United  States.  The U.S.  Direct  Treaty  Reinsurance  and
Insurance  operation  writes  property and casualty  reinsurance  directly  with
ceding  companies  and   primary  property  and  casualty   insurance,   through
agency  relationships  and  program  administrators  within  the United  States.
The  U.S.  Facultative  operation  writes   property,   casualty  and  specialty
business  through  brokers  and  directly  with   ceding  companies  within  the
United  States.  The  Marine,  Aviation  and  Surety  operation  writes  marine,
aviation   and  surety   business   within  the  United  States  and  worldwide.

                                                                            F-21

The International operation writes reinsurance through the Company's branches in
Belgium,  London,  Canada,  Hong Kong and  Singapore,  in  addition  to  foreign
"home-office"  business. The U.S. Facultative,  Marine,  Aviation and Surety and
International operations write business through brokers and directly with ceding
companies.

These  segments  are  managed in a  carefully  coordinated  fashion  with strong
elements of central control, including with respect to capital,  investments and
support operations. As a result, management monitors and evaluates the financial
performance of these operating  segments based upon their  underwriting  gain or
loss ("underwriting results").  Underwriting results include earned premium less
loss and loss adjustment  expenses  incurred,  commission and brokerage expenses
and other  underwriting  expenses.  The  accounting  policies  of the  operating
segments  are  the  same  as  those  described  in the  summary  of  significant
accounting policies. See Note 1.

The  Company  does not  maintain  separate  balance  sheet  data for each of its
operating  segments.  Accordingly,  the Company does not review and evaluate the
financial results of its operating segments based upon balance sheet data.

The following tables present the relevant underwriting results for the operating
segments for the three years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

                               U.S. BROKER TREATY
                               ------------------


                  U.S. DIRECT TREATY REINSURANCE AND INSURANCE
                  --------------------------------------------


                                U.S. FACULTATIVE
                                ----------------


                           MARINE, AVIATION AND SURETY
                           ---------------------------


                                  INTERNATIONAL
                                  -------------

F-22

The  following  table  reconciles  the  underwriting  results for the  operating
segments  to income  before tax as reported in the  consolidated  statements  of
operations and comprehensive income:

The  Company  writes  premium in the United  States and  selected  international
markets.  The revenues,  net income and  identifiable  assets of the  individual
foreign countries in which the Company writes business are not material.

Approximately  17.9%, 17.0% and 19.3% of the Company's gross premiums written in
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, were sourced through one intermediary.

15. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

A.  REORGANIZATION
Group, a Bermuda company,  was established in 1999 as a wholly-owned  subsidiary
of Holdings.  On February 23, 2000,  the  stockholders  of Holdings  approved an
agreement  and plan of merger to effect a  restructuring.  On February 24, 2000,
the  restructuring was completed and Group became the new parent holding company
of Holdings. Holders of Holdings' common stock became holders of the same number
of Group common  shares.  Prior to the  restructuring,  Group had no significant
assets or capitalization and had not engaged in any business or prior activities
other than in connection with the restructuring. The restructuring also involved
the establishment of a Bermuda-based reinsurance subsidiary, Everest Reinsurance
(Bermuda),  Ltd. ("Bermuda Re"), as a wholly-owned  subsidiary of Group. Bermuda
Re is registered  as a Class 4 insurer and long-term  insurer and is eligible to
write  property  and  casualty  business  and  life  and  annuity  business.  In
connection  with the  restructuring,  Group  formed a new  Delaware  subsidiary,
Everest  Global  Services,  Inc.,  to  perform  administrative  and  back-office
functions for Group and its U.S. and non-U.S. based subsidiaries.

B.  ISSUANCE OF DEBT
On March 14,  2000,  Holdings  completed  public  offerings  of  $200.0  million
principal  amount of 8.75%  senior  notes due March 15, 2010 and $250.0  million
principal amount of 8.50% senior notes due March 15, 2005. The net proceeds from
the sale of the notes were  $197.7  million  and $248.1  million,  respectively,
after deducting  underwriting  discounts,  less expenses incurred by Holdings in
connection with the offering.  Holdings retained  approximately $50.0 million of
the net proceeds for general corporate purposes. Approximately $400.0 million of
the net proceeds were distributed by Holdings to Group and approximately  $250.0
million  was  used by Group to  capitalize  Bermuda  Re.  The  remainder  of the
proceeds  that were  distributed  to Group  will be used for  general  corporate
purposes.

C.  GIBRALTAR ACQUISITION
On February 24, 2000,  Holdings  announced an agreement  with The  Prudential to
acquire all of the issued and outstanding  shares of Gibraltar  Casualty Company
for approximately  $52.0 million.  Closing of the acquisition will be subject to
the satisfaction of customary  closing  conditions and the receipt of regulatory
approvals.

Upon the closing of the acquisition:

o     Everest Re's current reinsurance  contracts with Gibraltar,  including the
      Stop Loss Agreement,  will remain in effect. However, these contracts will
      become  transactions  with affiliates with the financial impact eliminated
      through inter-company accounts.

o     The Prudential Guarantees will be terminated  and The  Prudential  will be
      released from its obligations.

                                                                            F-23

o     In 1991,  Everest Re distributed the stock of Gibraltar to PRUCO,  Inc., a
      direct,    wholly-owned    subsidiary   of   The   Prudential   ("PRUCO").
      Simultaneously,  PRUCO and  Gibraltar  entered into a surplus  maintenance
      agreement (the "PRUCO Surplus  Maintenance  Agreement")  pursuant to which
      PRUCO agreed to purchase  such amount of surplus notes as may be necessary
      to maintain  Gibraltar's  statutory surplus at no less than $15 million at
      all times. PRUCO shortly thereafter  distributed the stock of Gibraltar to
      The  Prudential.   The  PRUCO  Surplus   Maintenance   Agreement  will  be
      terminated.

o     On  October  6,  1995,  Holdings  agreed,  pursuant  to a Standby  Capital
      Contribution  Agreement (the "Capital  Contribution  Agreement"),  to make
      certain capital  contributions  ("Capital  Contributions")  to Everest Re.
      And,  on  October  6,  1995,  PRUCO  agreed to make  payments  ("Indemnity
      Payments")  to Holdings,  pursuant to an Indemnity  Agreement  (the "PRUCO
      Indemnity"),  in an amount equal to the Capital  Contributions.  The PRUCO
      Indemnity   will  be  terminated  and  PRUCO  will  be  released  from  it
      obligations.

In connection with the acquisition,  The Prudential will provide  reinsurance to
Gibraltar covering 80% of the first $200.0 million of any adverse development in
Gibraltar's reserves.

16. UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA

Summarized quarterly financial data were as follows:

- ----------------------
(1)  Fourth Quarter 1999 includes $2,798 of non-recurring restructure expenses.

F-24

EVEREST REINSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

SCHEDULE I - SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS -
OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES
DECEMBER 31, 1999

                                                                             S-1

EVEREST REINSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE REGISTRANT
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

S-2

EVEREST REINSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE REGISTRANT
CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS


See notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                                                             S-3

EVEREST REINSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

SCHEDULE II - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE REGISTRANT
CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASHFLOWS

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

S-4

EVEREST REINSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

SCHEDULE III - SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION

(1)  The 1998 and 1997 amounts have been restated to conform to the 1999 segment
     presentation.

                                                                             S-5

EVEREST REINSURANCE HOLDINGS, INC.

SCHEDULE IV - REINSURANCE

S-6

INDEX TO EXHIBITS

EXHIBIT NO.
- -----------

       2.1  Agreement  and Plan of Merger among  Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings,
            Inc.,  Everest Re Group,  Ltd.  And  Everest Re Merger  Corporation,
            incorporated herein by  reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registration
            Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-87361)

       3.1  Memorandum  of Association of Everest Re Group,  Ltd.,  incorporated
            herein by reference  to  Exhibit  3.1  to the Registration Statement
            on Form S-4 (No. 333-87361)

       3.2  Bye-Laws of Everest Re Group, Ltd., filed herewith

       4.1  Specimen   Everest  Re  Group,   Ltd.  Common   share   certificate,
            incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1  of  the  Registration
            Statement on form S-4 (No. 333-87361)

       4.2  Indenture,   dated  March  14,  2000,  between  Everest  Reinsurance
            Holdings,   Inc.  and  The  Chase  Manhattan   Bank,   as   Trustee,
            incorporated herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  4.1 to the Form 8-K
            filed on March 15, 2000

       4.3  First Supplemental  Indenture  relating to the 8.5% Senior Notes due
            March 15, 2005,  dated  March  14, 2000, between Everest Reinsurance
            Holding, Inc. and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, incorporated
            herein  by  reference to Exhibit  4.2 to the Form 8-K filed on March
            15, 2000

       4.4  Second Supplemental Indenture relating to the 8.75% Senior Notes due
            March 15, 2010, dated  March  14,  2000, between Everest Reinsurance
            Holdings,   Inc.   and   The   Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as  Trustee,
            incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit 4.3 to the Form 8-K
            filed on March 15, 2000

    * 10.1  Everest  Reinsurance Holdings,  Inc. Annual Incentive Plan effective
            January 1, 1999,  incorporated  herein  by reference to Exhibit 10.1
            to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  year  ended  December 31,
            1998 (the "1998 10-K")

      10.2  Stop Loss Agreement entered into between Everest Reinsurance Company
            and  Gibraltar Casualty Company, incorporated herein by reference to
            Exhibit  10.6  to   the   Registration   Statement   on   Form   S-1
            (No. 33-71652)

    * 10.3  Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc.  Amended  1995 Stock Incentive
            Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Annual
            Report  on  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended December 31, 1995 (the
            "1995 10-K")

      10.4  Sublease, effective as of February 1, 1997  between  The  Prudential
            Insurance  Company  of  America  and  Everest  Reinsurance  Company,
            incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.5 to the Annual
            Report  on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996 (the "1996
            10-K")

    * 10.5  Everest Reinsurance Holdings,  Inc. 1995 Stock Option Plan  for Non-
            Employee Directors, incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit
            4.3 to the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-05771)

    * 10.6  Amended  and   Restated   Employment   Agreement   between   Everest
            Reinsurance Company and Joseph V. Taranto,  incorporated  herein  by
            reference to Exhibit 10.50 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1
            (No. 33-71652)

    * 10.7  Resolution  adopted  by  Board  of Directors of Everest  Reinsurance
            Holdings, Inc.  on  April  1, 1999 awarding stock options to outside
            directors,  incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q  for  the  quarter ended June 30, 1999
            (the "second quarter 1999 10-Q")

    * 10.8  Resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of Everest  Reinsurance
            Holdings,  Inc.  on  February  23,  2000  awarding  stock options to
            outside Directors, filed herewith

      10.9  Standby  Capital Contribution Agreement between Everest  Reinsurance
            Holdings, Inc. and  Everest Reinsurance Company, incorporated herein
            by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.69  to  the Registration Statement on
            Form S-1 (No. 33-71652)

     10.10  Indemnification   Agreement   between   PRUCO,   Inc.   and  Everest
            Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc.,  incorporated  herein  by reference to
            Exhibit   10.70   to   the   Registration   Statement  on  Form  S-1
            (No. 33-71652)

     10.11  Guarantee  made  by The Prudential  Insurance  Company of America in
            favor  of  Everest  Reinsurance  Company,  incorporated  herein   by
            reference to Exhibit 10.71 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1
            (No. 33-71652)

     10.12  Guarantee  made  by The Prudential  Insurance  Company of America in
            favor of Everest Reinsurance Holdings, Inc., incorporated herein by
            reference to Exhibit 10.72 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1
            (No. 33-71652)

     10.13  1995  Service  Contract  between  Everest  Reinsurance  Company  and
            Gibraltar  Casualty  Company,  incorporated  herein  by reference to
            Exhibit  10.73   to  the   Registration   Statement   on   Form  S-1
            (No. 33-71652)

     10.14  Separation  Agreement  among  The  Prudential  Insurance  Company of
            America, Gibraltar  Casualty  Company,  Everest Reinsurance Company,
            PRUCO, Inc., and Everest Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc.,  incorporated
            herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registration  Statment on
            Form S-1 (No. 33-71652)

   * 10.15  Form of Non-Qualified Stock  Option  Award  Agreement  to be entered
            into between Everest Reinsurance  Holdings, Inc. and participants in
            the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan,  incorporated  herein by reference to
            Exhibit 10.15 to the 1995 10-K

                                                                             E-1

   * 10.16  Form  of  Restricted  Stock  Agreement to  be entered  into  between
            Everest Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc.  and  participants  in the 1995
            Stock Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by  reference  to  Exhibit
            10.16 to the 1995 10-K

   * 10.17  Form  of  Stock  Option  Agreement  (Version  1) to be entered  into
            between Everest Reinsurance Holdings, Inc. and  participants  in the
            1995  Stock  Option  Plan  for  Non-Employee Directors, incorporated
            herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the 1995 10-K

   * 10.18  Form  of  Stock  Option  Agreement  (Version 2)  to  be entered into
            between Everest Reinsurance Holdings, Inc.  and  participants in the
            1995  Stock  Option  Plan  for  Non-Employee Directors, incorporated
            herein by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to the 1995 10-K

     10.19  Credit agreement  between  Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc. and
            First Union National Bank dated June 16, 1997  providing  for  a $50
            million revolving credit facility, incorporated herein by  reference
            to Exhibit 10.19 to the Form 8-K filed on June 24, 1997

   * 10.20  Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended,  for certain  United  States
            employees   of   Everest   Reinsurance   Holdings,  Inc.   and   its
            participating  subsidiaries  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to
            Exhibit 10.20 to the 1998 10-K

   * 10.21  Employment  Agreement  with Joseph V.  Taranto  executed on July 15,
            1998,  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit 10.21 to the
            Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for  the  quarter  ended June 30, 1998
            (the "second quarter 1998 10-Q")

   * 10.22  Change of Control  Agreement  with  Joseph V. Taranto effective July
            15, 1998, incorporated  herein  by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the
            second quarter 1998 10-Q

   * 10.23  Senior  Executive  Change  of Control Plan,  incorporated  herein by
            reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
            the quarter ended September 30, 1998

     10.24  Credit   Line   Extension   dated   May 20,   1998  between  Everest
            Reinsurance   Holdings,  Inc.  and   First  Union   National   Bank,
            incorporated  herein  by  reference  to  Exhibit 10.23 to the second
            quarter 1998 10-Q

     10.25  First Amendment to Credit  Agreement  and  Extension  dated June 10,
            1999 between  Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc.  and First Union
            National Bank, incorporated herein  by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to
            the second quarter 1999 10-Q

   * 10.26  Executive  Performance Annual Incentive Plan adopted by stockholders
            on May 20, 1999, incorporated  herein  by reference to Exhibit 10.26
            to the second quarter 1999 10-Q

     10.27  Second Amendment  to  Credit  Agreement,  Consent and Waiver,  dated
            November 9, 1999, between  Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc. and
            First Union National  Bank,  incorporated  herein  by  reference  to
            Exhibit 10.29 to the Quarterly Report  on  Form 10-Q for the quarter
            ended September 30, 1999 (the "third quarter 1999 10-Q")

   * 10.28  Amendment  to  Amended  and Restated  Employment  Agreement  between
            Everest Reinsurance Company, Everest Reinsurance  Holdings, Inc. and
            Joseph V. Taranto  dated September 21, 1999 incorporated  herein  by
            reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the third quarter 1999 10-Q

   * 10.29  Amendment of Employment Agreement by and among  Everest  Reinsurance
            Company, Everest Reinsurance  Holdings, Inc., Everest Re Group, Ltd.
            and Joseph V. Taranto dated February 15, 2000, filed herewith

   * 10.30  Amendment  of  Change  of  Control  Agreement  by  and among Everest
            Reinsurance Company, Everest  Reinsurance Holdings, Inc., Everest Re
            Group,  Ltd.  and  Joseph  V. Taranto dated February 15, 2000, filed
            herewith

     10.31  Credit Agreement Between Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings,  Inc.,  the
            Lenders Named Therein and First  Union  National Bank dated December
            21,  1999  providing  for  a  $150  million  Senior Revolving Credit
            Facility, incorporated herein by reference  to  Exhibit 10.30 to the
            Form 8-K, filed on December 28, 1999

     10.32  Stock Purchase Agreement between the  Prudential  Insurance  Company
            of America and  Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings, Inc. for the sale of
            common stock of Gibraltar Casualty Company  dated February 24, 2000,
            filed herewith

     10.33  Parent  Guaranty  dated  February 24, 2000 made by Everest Re Group,
            Ltd. in favor of the  Lenders under  Everest  Reinsurance  Holdings,
            Inc.'s Credit Facility, filed herewith

     10.34  Form  of  Stock  Option  Agreement for Non-Employee Directors, filed
            herewith

      11.1  Statement  regarding   computation  of  per  share  earnings,  filed
            herewith

      21.1  Subsidiaries of the registrant, filed herewith

      23.1  Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, filed herewith

      27.1  Financial Data Schedule, filed herewith

- --------------------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

E-2

