ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our Company

Align Technology, Inc.  designs, manufactures and markets the Invisalign
system, a proprietary method for treating malocclusion, or the misalignment of teeth.  Invisalign corrects malocclusion using a series of clear, nearly invisible, removable appliances that gently move teeth to a desired final
position.  Because it does not rely on the use of metal or ceramic brackets and wires, Invisalign significantly reduces the aesthetic and other limitations associated with metal arch wires and brackets, commonly referred to as
braces.  We received the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) clearance to market Invisalign in 1998.  The Invisalign system is regulated by the FDA as a Class II medical device.

We distribute the vast majority of our products directly to our customers: the orthodontist and the general practitioner
dentist, or GP.  In order to provide the Invisalign treatment solution to their patients, orthodontists and GPs must initially complete an Invisalign training course.  In addition, for North America dental
professionals, every Invisalign provider must start 10 Invisalign cases and complete at least 10 Invisalign-specific continuing education (CE) credits each calendar year.  See discussion of Invisalign Proficiency Requirements inItem 1 – Business – Business Strategy – Becoming a Leading Invisalign provider.   The Invisalign system is sold in North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Japan.  We use a distributor
model for the sale of our products in parts of the Asia Pacific and Latin American regions.  Additionally, we recently announced the addition of an international distributor for the smaller country markets in Europe, the Middle East and
Africa.

We were incorporated in Delaware in April 1997.  Our headquarters are currently located at
881 Martin Avenue, Santa Clara, California 95050, and our telephone number is 408-470-1000.  In January 2010, we entered into a lease agreement for office space located at 2560 Orchard Parkway, San Jose, California for our new
corporate headquarters.  We expect to commence conducting business at this location on or about June 28, 2010.  Our international headquarters are located in Amsterdam, Netherlands.  Our digital planning and
software facility is located in San Jose, Costa Rica and our aligner manufacturing facility is located in Juarez, Mexico.







Industry Background

Malocclusion

Malocclusion, or the misalignment of teeth, is one of the most prevalent clinical dental conditions, affecting approximately 50 to 75% of the population of major developed countries or nearly a billion individuals.   Approximately
4 million people annually elect treatment by orthodontists worldwide, of which approximately 2.2 million have mild to moderate malocclusion and are applicable to Invisalign—our served market.  While most individuals seek
orthodontic treatment to improve their appearance, malocclusion may also be responsible for dental problems such as tooth decay, tooth loss, gum disease, jaw joint pain and headaches.  Because of the compromised aesthetics, discomfort and
other drawbacks associated with traditional orthodontic treatments, only a relatively small proportion of people with malocclusion seek treatment.

Traditional Orthodontic Treatment

In the U.S., dental professionals treat
malocclusion primarily with metal arch wires and brackets, commonly referred to as braces.  Occasionally, dental professionals attempt to improve treatment aesthetics by using ceramic, tooth-colored brackets or bond brackets on the inside,
or lingual surfaces, of the patient’s teeth.  Dental professionals also augment braces with elastics, metal bands, headgear and other ancillary devices.

The average treatment takes approximately 12 to 24 months to complete and requires several hours of direct dental professional
involvement, or chair time.  To initiate treatment, a dental professional will diagnose a patient’s condition and create an appropriate treatment plan.  In a subsequent visit, the dental professional will bond brackets to
the patient’s teeth with a bonding agent and attach an arch wire to the brackets.  Thereafter, by tightening or otherwise adjusting the braces approximately every six weeks, the dental professional is able to exert sufficient force on
the patient’s teeth to achieve desired tooth movement.  In a final visit, the dental professional removes each bracket and residual bonding agent from the patient’s teeth.  Upon completion of the treatment, the dental
professional may, at his or her discretion, have the patient use a retainer.

Fees for traditional orthodontic
treatment typically range between U.S. $3,500 to $7,000 with a median fee of approximately $5,000; generally only a portion of the fee is reimbursed by insurance.  Fees are based on the difficulty of the particular case and on the dental
professional’s estimate of chair time, and are generally negotiated in advance.  A treatment that exceeds the dental professional’s estimate of chair time generally results in decreased fees per hour of chair time, and reduced
profitability for the dental professional.

Limitations of Traditional Orthodontic Treatment

Although braces are generally effective in correcting a wide range of malocclusions, they are subject to many limitations and
disadvantages.  Traditional orthodontic treatment is associated with:



•Unattractive appearance.Braces call attention to the patient’s condition and treatment.  In addition,
braces trap food, which can further compromise appearance.  Braces can also result in permanent discoloration of teeth.  As a result of these and other limitations, relatively few adults with malocclusion elect traditional
orthodontic treatment and braces can compromise the self esteem of young adults and teenagers.



•Oral discomfort.Braces are sharp and bulky and can abrade and irritate the interior surfaces of the
mouth.  The tightening or adjustment of braces results in root and gum soreness and discomfort, especially in the few days immediately following an orthodontic visit.



•Poor oral hygiene.Braces can make it difficult to brush and floss leaving teeth vulnerable to developing decay, plaque,
periodontal disease and stains that must be taken care of after braces are removed.  Additionally, the bonding of brackets to teeth can cause permanent markings on the teeth.



•Inability to project treatment.Historically, dental professionals have not had a means to model the movement of teeth
over a course of treatment.  Accordingly, dental professionals must rely on intuition







and judgment to plan and project treatment.  As a result, they cannot be precise about the direction or distance of expected tooth movement between patient visits.  This lack
of predictability may result in unwanted tooth movements and can limit the dental professional’s ability to estimate the duration of treatment.  Because most orthodontic treatment is performed on a fixed price basis, extended
treatment duration reduces profitability for the dental professional.



•Physical demands on dental professional.The manipulation of wires and brackets requires sustained manual dexterity and
visual acuity, and may place other physical burdens on the dental professional.



•Root resorption.The sustained high levels of force associated with traditional treatment can result in root resorption,
which is a shortening of tooth roots.  This shortening can have substantial adverse periodontal consequences for the patient.



•Emergencies.At times, brackets and wires need to be repaired or replaced on an emergency basis.  Such
emergencies cause significant inconvenience to both the patient and the dental professional.

Due to the
poor aesthetics, discomfort and other limitations of braces, relatively few adults with malocclusion elect traditional orthodontic treatment.  Additionally, teenagers that seek orthodontic treatment have traditionally only had the option
of braces for treatment.  Accordingly, we believe there is a large unmet need for an alternative orthodontic system that addresses these patient concerns.

The Invisalign Solution

Invisalign is a proprietary system for treating malocclusion.  The Invisalign system is comprised of several phases, the principal steps of which are the creation of customized digital treatment
plans using proprietary software known as ClinCheck, which occurs in our facility in San Jose, Costa Rica, and the manufacturing of customized Invisalign aligners, which occurs in our facility in Juarez, Mexico.

Orthodontic diagnosis and transmission of treatment data to us.In an initial patient visit, the dental
professional determines whether Invisalign is an appropriate treatment.  The dental professional then prepares a treatment data package which consists of a polyvinyl-siloxane, or PVS impression of the relevant dental arches, x-rays of the
patient’s dentition, photographs of the patient, a bite impression depicting the relationship between the patient’s upper and lower dental arches and an Invisalign treatment planning form, or prescription.  The impression is a
critical component of the Invisalign system as it depicts the three-dimensional geometry of the patient’s teeth and hence forms the basis for our computer models and subsequent molds and aligners.  An impression requires the patient
to bite into a viscous material.  This material hardens, capturing the shape of the patient’s teeth.  The prescription is also a critical component of the Invisalign system, describing the desired positions and movement of
the patient’s teeth.  The dental professional sends the treatment data to our facility in Juarez, Mexico.

Preparation of three-dimensional computer models of the patient’s initial malocclusion.Upon receipt, we use the treatment data to construct digital models of the patient’s dentition.  Using
computed tomography, known as CT scanning, we scan the PVS impression to develop a digital, three-dimensional computer model of the patient’s current dentition.  We then transmit this initial computer model together with the dental
professional’s prescription and supplemental materials electronically to our facility in San Jose, Costa Rica.

Preparation of computer-simulated treatment and viewing of treatment using ClinCheck.In Costa Rica, we transform this initial digital model into a proposed custom, three-dimensional treatment plan that
simulates appropriate tooth movement in a series of two-week increments.  This simulated treatment plan, called ClinCheck, is an internally developed and proprietary computer modeling program that allows dental professionals to diagnose
and plan treatments for their patients.  This ClinCheck simulation is then reviewed for adherence to prescribed clinical treatment and quality standards.  Upon completion of the review, the patient’s ClinCheck is then made
available to the prescribing dental professional via Virtual Invisalign Practice (VIP), our proprietary customer interfacing software portal, which is available on our websites located atwww.invisalign.comandwww.aligntech.com.The dental professional then reviews the ClinCheck and can either







accept the proposed treatment or request modifications and adjustments until satisfied with the treatment plan. ClinCheck allows the dental professional to view this three-dimensional simulation
with a high degree of magnification and from any angle.  Accordingly, ClinCheck enables the dental professional to project tooth movement with a level of accuracy not previously possible with metal arch wires and brackets.  By
reviewing and amending the treatment simulation, the dental professional retains control over the treatment plan and, thus participates in the customized design of the aligners.  At this point, the dental professional may also invite the
patient to view the treatment plan, allowing the patient to see the projected course of treatment.  The dental professional’s final approval of the proposed ClinCheck treatment engages us to manufacture the corresponding molds and
aligners in Juarez, Mexico.

Construction of molds corresponding to each step of
treatment.Upon the dental professional’s approval of the ClinCheck simulation, we use the data underlying the simulation, in conjunction with stereolithography technology, to construct a series of molds depicting the
future position of the patient’s teeth.  Each mold is a replica of the patient’s teeth at each two-week stage of the simulated course of treatment.  These molds are then used to fabricate the patient’s
aligners.

Manufacture of aligners and shipment to the dental professional.

Retention.Upon completion of the treatment, the patient may be prescribed our single clear retainer product
or our Vivera retainer product.  Vivera retainers are shipped every three months over the one year period.

Our Products

Our revenues are generated from the sale of the following product offerings.



Percentage of Revenues by ProductFiscal Year2009Fiscal Year2008Fiscal Year2007Invisalign Full75%84%86%Invisalign Express988Invisalign Teen82—Invisalign Assist3——Other566Total100%100%100%







Invisalign Full.Invisalign Full is intended to be used as a
complete treatment for a broad range of malocclusions.  Each treatment plan is unique to the individual patient and will consist of as many aligners as indicated by ClinCheck in order to achieve the doctor’s treatment
goals.  For Invisalign Full, aligners are manufactured and then delivered to the dental professionals in a single shipment.

Invisalign Express.Invisalign Express is a lower-cost solution for less complex orthodontic cases. Invisalign Express is a dual arch orthodontic treatment for cases that
meet certain predetermined clinical criteria and consist of up to ten sets of aligners.  Invisalign Express is intended to help a broader range of patients elect orthodontic treatment by providing a lower-cost option for adult relapse
cases, for minor crowding and spacing, or as a pre-cursor to restorative or cosmetic treatments such as veneers.  For Invisalign Express, aligners are manufactured and then delivered to the dental professionals in a single
shipment.

Invisalign Teen.Invisalign Teen is designed to meet the specific needs
of the non-adult comprehensive or teen treatment market.  Invisalign Teen includes features such as compliance indicators to help gauge patient wear and compliance and specially engineered aligner features to address the natural eruption
of key teeth common in teen patients.  Predominantly marketed to orthodontists who treat the vast majority of malocclusion in teen patients, these features are intended to meet the treatment needs of those younger patients.  As
part of Invisalign Teen, we include up to six free individual replacement aligners during active treatment to cover potential aligner loss.  For Invisalign Teen, aligners (other than the replacement aligners) are manufactured and then
delivered to the dental professionals in a single shipment.

Invisalign
Assist.Invisalign Assist is designed specifically for GPs who want more support in selecting, monitoring and finishing Invisalign cases.  Intended to help newly-trained and lower volume GPs
accelerate the adoption and frequency of use of Invisalign into their practice, Invisalign Assist is intended to make it easier for GPs to select appropriate cases for their experience level or treatment approach, submit cases more efficiently
and manage appointments with suggested tasks.  In addition, progress tracking features allow GPs to submit new impressions every nine stages.  When the progress tracking feature is selected, aligners are shipped to the
dental professional after every nine stages.

Retention.In addition to our
traditional single retainer product, we offer Vivera retainers, where we deliver a new replacement retainer to orthodontic patients every three months for one year.  Vivera retainers are produced using the same proprietary technology and
material as the Invisalign aligners, and offer an effective, aesthetic retention solution for both Invisalign and non-Invisalign patients.

Training, Ancillary and Other.The remaining net revenues are generated by training fees and sales of ancillary products, such as cleaning material and adjusting tools used
by dental professionals during the course of treatment.

Proprietary software mentioned in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K such as ClinCheck and VIP (Virtual Invisalign Practice) are included as part of the Invisalign system and are not sold separately nor do they contribute as individual items of revenue.

Benefits of Invisalign

We believe that Invisalign provides benefits to dental professionals and patients that have the potential to establish Invisalign as the preferred alternative to traditional braces.

Benefits to the dental professional



•Ability to visualize the treatment plan and treatment options.    ClinCheck enables dental professionals to preview and
modify the intended outcome of treatment in an interactive three-dimensional computer model.  ClinCheck allows dental professionals to analyze multiple treatment alternatives before selecting the course of action they feel is most
appropriate for the patient.







•Expanded patient base.We believe that Invisalign has the potential to transform the practice of
orthodontics.  Currently, approximately 4 million people annually elect treatment by orthodontists worldwide, of which approximately 2.2 million have mild to moderate malocclusion and are applicable to Invisalign—our served
market.  As of December 31, 2009, our share of the 2.2 million patients in our served market is approximately 6%.  Our market research indicates that the vast majority of people with malocclusion who desire treatment do
not elect traditional treatment because of its many limitations.  We believe that since Invisalign addresses the primary limitations of braces, adults, who are particularly sensitive to aesthetic limitations of traditional treatment, will
be more likely to seek treatment.  We therefore believe that Invisalign will allow dental professionals to attract patients who would not otherwise seek orthodontic treatment.  In addition, as the primary care provider, GPs
have access to a greater number of patients than orthodontists and possess a unique opportunity to introduce Invisalign and expand their practice and patient base.



•Practice productivity.We believe that as dental professionals move to a higher volume of Invisalign patients, they will
be able to better leverage their existing resources, including staff time and office space resulting in an increase in daily patient appointments and practice productivity.

Benefits to the Patient



•Excellent aesthetics.Aligners are nearly invisible when worn, significantly reducing the aesthetic concerns associated
with traditional braces.



•Comfort.    By replacing the six-week adjustment cycle of traditional braces with two-week stages, aligners move teeth more
gently.  Also, aligners are thin, smooth and low in profile.  As a result, aligners are more comfortable and less irritating than traditional braces.



•Improved oral hygiene.Patients can remove aligners for tasks that are difficult with traditional braces, such as eating,
brushing and flossing.  We believe this feature has the potential to reduce enamel decalcification, tooth decay, and periodontal damage during treatment, which may result from traditional fixed braces.



•Potentially reduced overall treatment time.Aligners control force by distributing it broadly over the exposed surfaces
of the teeth.  In addition, the ClinCheck simulation from which aligners are produced is designed to reduce unintended and unnecessary tooth movements.  Together, these factors may reduce overall treatment time relative to
traditional braces.



•Potentially reduced root resorption.We believe that controlling force and shortening treatment time has the potential to
reduce the incidence of root resorption, which is the breakdown or destruction of root structure that can occur during orthodontic treatment.



•Reduced incidence of emergencies.Typically, a lost or broken aligner is simply replaced with the next aligner in the
treatment series, minimizing inconvenience to both the patient and the dental professional.

We
believe that these benefits will prove attractive to people who currently do not seek treatment because of the limitations of traditional braces or as an alternative, more aesthetic treatment option for teenagers.

Limitations of Invisalign

In some instances, the Invisalign system may have certain limitations relative to traditional treatment. Aligners cost more to produce than traditional braces, and we charge dental professionals more than
they generally pay for the supplies used in traditional treatment.  Depending on the individual pricing policies of each dental professional and the treatment selected, the cost of Invisalign treatment to the patient may be greater than
for traditional braces.  Dental professionals must also incorporate our manufacturing cycle times into their overall treatment plan.  Once a dental professional submits a case to us, there are a variety of factors that may impact
when the corresponding aligners are delivered, one of which includes the timing of when the dental professional







accepts the case.  Aligners may not be appropriate for all cases, such as severe malocclusion, which may require aligners to be used in combination with traditional braces for optimal
results.  In addition, because aligners are removable, treatment using Invisalign depends on patients wearing their aligners as recommended.  Some patients may experience a temporary period of adjustment to wearing aligners that
may mildly affect speech.  In some instances, patients have experienced scratched or irritated gums, cheeks and lips and in some rare instances, allergic reactions have been reported.  We believe that these limitations are
generally outweighed by the many benefits of Invisalign to both patients and dental professionals.

Our
Target Market and Patient Base

Our market research indicates that the majority of people with malocclusion who desire
treatment forgo treatment rather than elect traditional treatment due to its many limitations.  We believe that since Invisalign addresses the primary limitations of braces, adults, who are particularly sensitive to aesthetic limitations
of traditional treatment, will be more likely to seek treatment and therefore represent our most immediate market expansion opportunity.  With the launch of Invisalign Teen in July 2008, we now offer a product designed to meet the needs of
the non-adult comprehensive, or younger teen, treatment market.  Invisalign Teen makes our treatment more applicable to an orthodontist’s patient base, which we believe will provide us the opportunity to increase our penetration into
and our share of the teen treatment market.

Approximately 4 million people annually elect treatment by
orthodontists worldwide of which approximately 2.2 million have mild to moderate malocclusion and are applicable to Invisalign—our served market.  Twenty-three percent of these patients, or approximately 510,000, have mature
dentition (adults and older teens), with fully-erupted second molars and substantially completed jaw growth.  Seventy-seven percent, or approximately 1.7 million, have erupting dentition (non-adult comprehensive, or younger teens),
with partially-erupted second molars, cuspid and second bicuspid teeth.  As of December 31, 2009, our share of the 2.2 million patients in our served market is approximately 6%.

Published market data for GPs providing treatment for malocclusion is limited, however, as the primary care provider, GPs have
access to a greater number of patients than orthodontists and possess a unique opportunity to introduce Invisalign and expand their practice and patient base.  We believe GPs represent a significant market expansion opportunity.

As of December 31, 2009, approximately 1,164,695 patients cumulatively worldwide have started treatment using
Invisalign.  The Invisalign system is sold in North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Japan.  International sales accounted for 24%, 21% and 17% of our net revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  A geographic breakdown of our net revenues is summarized inNote 18 “Segments and Geographical Information” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  We operate as one reportable
segment—the design, development, manufacturing and marketing of Invisalign.  Additionally, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total net revenues in 2009, 2008, and 2007.

Business Strategy

Our goal is to establish Invisalign as the standard method for treating malocclusion ultimately driving increased product adoption by dental professionals by focusing on the following key strategic
initiatives:



1.Continue to accelerate product and technology innovation in order to extend clinical effectiveness and treat more patients and achieve better outcomes;



2.Enhance the customer experience for our doctors and for their staff by making it easier and more efficient to adopt Invisalign into their practice and increase
utilization;



3.Drive more efficient consumer demand creation, improve conversion rates and re-fresh the Invisalign brand image and positioning; and



4.Continue to drive European growth while opening up additional new markets around the world.







Product innovation and clinical effectiveness.

We continue to make significant progress with new products and features for Invisalign, yet total Invisalign case starts are still small
relative to our total served market.  During 2010, we plan to continue our efforts to demonstrate clinical efficacy and work towards a long term goal of becoming the orthodontic treatment of choice.

Enhancing the customer experience and increasing adoption.We are committed to enhancing the customer
experience by focusing on specific customer “touch points”, or areas where we interact directly with our customers.  Specifically, we provide robust clinical education resources and training programs, improving customer support,
providing field sales support and helping doctors with practice development on how to better integrate Invisalign into their practice.





•



Clinical Education and Training







engaged and committed customer base that maintains a baseline of up-to-date Invisalign product knowledge.

We have also incorporated the Invisalign technique into the curriculum of 38 university programs.  By educating dental students and
orthodontic residents on the benefits of the Invisalign technique, we believe they will be more likely to use this technology in their future practices and offer Invisalign as a treatment option.  Other resources that we offer our doctors
include the Aligntech Institute program (www.aligntechinstitute.com ), which is an interactive website that provides clinical education and practice development training.  These clinical education and practice development training
opportunities include instructor-led training classes, seminars and workshops, conference calls, web-based videos, case studies, and other clinical resources.  Many of these courses and resources are eligible for continuing education (CE)
credits.  Additionally, our VIP portal (Virtual Invisalign Practice) provides our trained doctors and their staff access to thousands of Invisalign cases and best practices as well as up-to-date support information, programs and marketing
materials for continuous support and information access.



•Customer Support and Practice Development.    Once a doctor is trained, we provide additional services to help our customers
increase their confidence in using the Invisalign system through clinical support and continuing education, as well as improving their practice management skills.  At our Costa Rica facility, we have over 700 treatment technicians and
customer support staff available to help our customers with their cases and treatment plans.  Our sales representatives provide additional support and practice development tools such as staff training, ClinCheck software tips and tools,
practice marketing guides and marketing materials, as well as any assistance with the Invisalign system process.



•Becoming a Leading Invisalign provider.Our goal is to help ensure that every practice that works with Invisalign can
achieve great clinical and commercial outcomes and that every patient in Invisalign treatment gets the smile they want.

On June 2, 2009, we announced the implementation of the Invisalign Product Proficiency Requirements (or the Proficiency Requirements) in North America to help ensure that Invisalign-trained doctors
have the experience and confidence necessary to achieve high quality treatment outcomes for Invisalign patients.  Under the Proficiency Requirements, every Invisalign provider in North America must have 10 Invisalign case starts (measured
by ClinCheck acceptance) and complete at least 10 Invisalign-specific continuing education (CE) credits each calendar year.  Doctors who met the proficiency requirements of 10 case starts and 10 Invisalign CE hours by the end of 2009 will
benefit from a new addition to Align’s consumer marketing programs, one that encourages prospective patients to seek out “Invisalign Preferred Providers.” Starting in January 2010, this new Invisalign Preferred designation will be
highlighted on the Invisalign web site and in television ads as a way to recognize doctors’ commitment to continued proficiency with Invisalign.  The Invisalign Preferred designation will then be awarded on an annual basis to doctors
who meet the proficiency requirements for a given year.

In October 2009, we updated the Proficiency Requirements in order
to further support our customers through this significant change and provided a one-time, additional six month qualification period for doctors who were unable to meet the proficiency requirements for 2009, but demonstrated a desire to continue
using Invisalign.  The additional six month qualification period stipulated that doctors who had at least one case start and at least one Invisalign CE hour at the end of 2009 will be allowed to maintain their active Invisalign provider
status through June 30, 2010, provided that they meet half of the annual proficiency requirements (at least 5 case starts and 5 Invisalign CE hours) between January 1 and June 30, 2010.  Doctors will still be responsible for
meeting the total annual requirements of at least 10 case starts and 10 Invisalign CE hours by the end of 2010 to qualify as providers for the following year.

Doctors with zero case starts or zero Invisalign CE hours at the end of 2009 were not eligible for the additional qualification period.  They will be able to continue treating in-progress cases
but will not be







able to submit new Invisalign cases or use Invisalign branding or marketing resources.  Doctors can reactivate their provider status by retaking Invisalign Clear Essentials I training
and meeting the proficiency requirements during the new calendar year.

As of January 2010, approximately 6,400 doctors met the
Invisalign Proficiency Requirements and another 15,800 doctors met the criteria for the additional six-month qualification period in 2009.  We limited the account status of approximately 13,400 doctors who did not meet either Proficiency
Requirements or the additional qualification period requirements but can continue treating and finishing in progress patients.  In addition, we deactivated approximately 9,600 Invisalign-trained doctors who had never submitted a single
Invisalign case.  SeeItem 1A – Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for risks related to the Proficiency Requirements.

Increasing the effectiveness of our consumer demand creation and re-freshing the Invisalign brand.

www.invisalign.com,www.aligntechinstitute.com, andwww.invisalign.com/teen

Growth of international markets.







Manufacturing

To produce our highly customized, highly precise, medical quality products in volume, we have developed a number of proprietary processes and
technologies.  These technologies include complex software solutions, CT scanning, stereolithography and automated aligner fabrication.

Manufacturing administration is located in Santa Clara, California; however, our digital planning and manufacturing facilities are located outside of the U.S. in San Jose, Costa Rica and Juarez,
Mexico.  As of December 31, 2009, our digital planning, manufacturing and operations staff in the U.S., Costa Rica and Mexico consisted of 1,271 people.  At our facility in Costa Rica, technicians use a sophisticated,
internally developed computer-modeling program to prepare digital treatment plans.  Upon acceptance of the ClinCheck set-up treatment plan by the dental professional, these plans are then transmitted electronically to Juarez, Mexico.
ClinCheck and supporting digital files are used to manufacture SLA (stereolithography) aligner molds.  Our order acquisition operations, the manufacturing of aligner molds and aligners, as well as the packaging and shipment of aligners,
are conducted in our facility in Juarez, Mexico.  In April 2009 we terminated our shelter services arrangements with International Manufacturing Solutions Operaciones, S.R.L., or IMS and became a direct manufacturer of our clear aligners
at the facility in Juarez, Mexico.  Information regarding risks associated with our manufacturing process and foreign operations may be found inItem 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Risk
Factors.”

We rely on two vendors who are each the sole source of the polymer and resin used in our manufacturing
process.  In the event that either of these vendors becomes unable for any reason to supply us with their respective products, we would experience a manufacturing disruption while we qualify and obtain an alternate source.

Throughput Management

Because we manufacture each case on a build-to-order basis, we must conservatively build manufacturing capacity for anticipated demand.  To increase throughput, we must improve the efficiency
and increase the scale of our manufacturing processes.

In order to increase the efficiency of our manufacturing processes, we
focus our efforts on software development and the improvement of rate-limiting processes, or bottlenecks.  We continue to upgrade our proprietary, three-dimensional treatment planning software to enhance computer analysis of treatment data
and to reduce time spent on manual and judgmental tasks for each case, thereby increasing the efficiency of our technicians in Costa Rica.  We are also continuing the development of automated systems for the fabrication and packaging of
aligners manufactured in Juarez, Mexico.  In order to scale our manufacturing capacity, we expect that we will continue to invest in capital equipment.

Quality Assurance

Align’s quality system is in compliance with
Food & Drug Administration’s Medical Device regulations, 21CFR Part 820, and Health Canada’s Medical Device Regulations.  We are certified to EN ISO 13485:2003, internationally recognized standards for Medical
Device manufacturing.  We have a formal, documented quality system by which quality objectives are defined, understood and achieved.  Systems, processes and procedures are implemented to ensure high levels of product and service
quality.  We monitor the effectiveness of the quality system based on internal data and direct customer feedback and strive to continually improve our systems and processes, taking corrective action, as needed.

Since we custom manufacture aligners on a build-to-order basis, we do not offer refunds on our products. Because each ClinCheck and each
aligner is unique, we inspect the product at various points during the manufacturing process, to ensure that the product meets our customers’ expectations.  Aligners are subject to the Invisalign product warranty, which covers defects
in materials and workmanship.  Our materials and workmanship warranty is in force until the Invisalign case is completed.  In the event aligners fall within the







scope of the Invisalign product warranty, we will replace the aligners at our expense.  Our warranty is contingent upon proper use of the aligners for the purposes for which they are
intended.  If a patient chooses not to wear the aligners, and as a result, requests additional Invisalign treatment, the dental professional pays the additional expense of the replacement aligners.  Warranty treatment requires
that the dental professional submit new impressions of the patient’s dentition to us.  We use the impressions to create a new ClinCheck treatment plan for the dental professional to approve, from which a successive series of aligners
will be produced that will allow the patient to finish treatment.

The Invisalign product warranty does not provide any
assurances regarding the outcome of treatment using Invisalign.  Actual treatment results may deviate significantly from the approved ClinCheck treatment plan. Deviations not covered under warranty have typically been the result of
unpredictable biological factors, such as variations in bone density or tooth topography and abnormal jaw growth.

Sales
and Marketing

We market Invisalign by communicating the benefits of the Invisalign system to dental professionals
through our training programs, mail campaigns, trade shows, trade journals and print media, and to consumers through advertising, digital media, event marketing and social networking activities.  Based on our experience with advertising
and commercial sales, we believe that making consumers aware of Invisalign as a new treatment alternative generates significant demand for Invisalign.

Professional Marketing

We provide training, marketing and clinical support
to orthodontists and GPs throughout North America and internationally.  As of December 31, 2009, we had trained 59,890 dental professionals worldwide to use Invisalign.  Of those trained dental professionals,
approximately 74% are dental professionals in our North American market.  Within our North American market, we have trained 8,935 orthodontists and 35,215 GPs cumulatively through the end of 2009.  As part of the Proficiency
Requirements, in January 2010, we deactivated approximately 9,600 Invisalign-trained doctors who had never submitted an Invisalign case.  In addition, we limited the account status of approximately 13,400 doctors who did not meet either
the Proficiency Requirements or the additional qualification period requirements but can continue treating and finishing in progress patients. See discussion of Invisalign Product Proficiency Requirements inItem 1—Business—Business Strategy—“Becoming A Leading Invisalign Provider”.

As of
December 31, 2009 our North American sales organization consisted of 164 people, of which 150 were direct sales representatives and 14 were sales administration and management.  Internationally, we had 45 people engaged in sales and
sales support as of December 31, 2009.  We continually evaluate cost effective ways to support our customers in smaller markets.  For instance, we use distributors for the sale of our products in part of the Asia Pacific and
Latin American regions.  We have also recently announced the addition of an international distributor in the smaller country markets in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  We will consider selling through a distributor in other
smaller markets as well as consider expanding directly into additional countries on a case-by-case basis.

Invisalign relies
on the same orthodontic principles that apply to traditional treatment.  Our sales and orthodontic teams conduct training primarily in a workshop format.  The key topics covered in training include Invisalign applicability,
instructions on filling out the Invisalign treatment form, clinical tips and techniques, guidance on pricing and instructions on interacting with our ClinCheck software and the many other features of our website.

After doctors complete their training, sales representatives may follow up with the dental professional to ensure that their staff is
prepared to handle Invisalign cases.  These practice development activities may include assisting the dental professional in taking dental impressions, treatment planning processes and familiarizing







them with our dental online portals and tools.  Sales representatives may also provide practice-building assistance, including helping the dental professional to market Invisalign to
prospective patients through direct mail or other forms of media.  Many dental professionals have commenced promotional activity in their local region with our assistance.

Consumer Marketing

Our experience indicates that prospective patients seek information from these primary sources:



•an orthodontist;



•a GP;



•consumer marketing and advertising;



•our websites, which can be accessed at eitherwww.invisalign.com,www.invisalignteen.com,www.aligntech.com, orwww.aligntechinstitute.com;



•direct-to-consumer mail and digital advertising;



•public relations efforts; and



•other Invisalign patients.

Research and Development

Our research and development effort is
focused on extending the range of clinical effectiveness and applicability of Invisalign, enhancing the software used in the manufacturing process and enhancing our Invisalign system product lines, including the development of distinct product
platforms for the GPs and orthodontists such as Invisalign Assist and Invisalign Teen.  Our research and development expenses were $22.3 million for 2009, $26.2 million for 2008, and $25.7 million for 2007.

In an effort to demonstrate Invisalign’s broad treatment capabilities, various clinical case studies and articles have been published
that highlight the applicability of Invisalign to malocclusion cases, including those of severe complexity.  We are also undertaking post-marketing studies and making additional technological improvements to the product and manufacturing
process.  As mentioned in our Business Strategy, we are making investments in the development of new products and enhancements of existing products to meet the needs of our customers and increase adoption and utilization of Invisalign.

Intellectual Property

We believe our intellectual property position represents a substantial business advantage.  As of December 31, 2009, we had 131 issued U.S. patents, 160 pending U.S. patent applications,
and numerous foreign issued patents, as well as 122 pending foreign patent applications.  SeeItem 3 “Legal Proceedings” for a discussion on Reexamination Proceedings pending with the United States Patent and Trademark
Office.

We continue to pursue further intellectual property protection through U.S. and foreign patent applications and
non-disclosure agreements.  We also seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws.  We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of any patent
application or that patents that have been issued to us or that may be issued in the future will be found to be valid and enforceable and sufficient to protect our technology or products.  Our intellectual property rights may not be
successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged.  In addition, the laws of various foreign countries where Invisalign is distributed do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent
as U.S. laws.  Our inability to protect our proprietary information could harm our business.  Information regarding risks associated with failing to protect our proprietary technology and our intellectual property rights may be
found inItem 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.”







Seasonal Fluctuations

Seasonal fluctuations in the number of doctors in their offices and available to take appointments have affected, and are likely to continue
to affect, our business.  Specifically, our customers often take vacation or are on holiday during the summer months and therefore tend to start fewer cases, particularly in Europe.  In addition, summer is typically the busiest
season for orthodontists with practices that have a high percentage of adolescent and teenage patients.  Many parents want to get their teens started in treatment before the start of the school year. As a result, adult appointments,
including adult Invisalign patient starts, are often pushed further into late summer or early fall.  However, with the availability of Invisalign Teen, 2009 was the first summer we were able to actively compete for a share of teen patient
starts.  We believe that Invisalign Teen may have helped and may in the future help moderate the historical downward trend we have typically seen for our North American orthodontic customers during the summer months.  These
seasonal trends have caused and will likely continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates.

Backlog

Due to the nature of our business, we maintain relatively
low levels of backlog.  The period from which treatment data (or “a case”) is received until the acceptance of the digital treatment plan, or ClinCheck, is dependent on the dental professional’s discretion to modify, accept
or cancel the treatment plan.  Therefore, we consider the case a firm order to manufacture aligners once the dental professional has approved ClinCheck.  Our backlog consists of ClinCheck- approved cases, which are generally
shipped within a short period of time.  As a result, we believe that backlog is not a good indicator of future sales, and our quarterly revenues depend largely on the timing of ClinCheck approvals and the impact on cases shipped in that
quarter.

Competition

We compete for the attention of dental professionals with manufacturers of traditional orthodontic appliances (or wires and brackets), which include 3M’s Unitek, Danaher Corporation’s Sybron
Dental Specialties, and Dentsply International, Inc.  We also compete directly with established companies that manufacture and distribute products that are similar in use to Invisalign, including the products manufactured and
distributed by Ormco Orthodontics, a division of Sybron Dental Specialties (a division of Danaher Corporation). In the future, we may face further competition from early stage and more mature companies who enter our target markets to manufacture and
distribute products that are similar in use to Invisalign.  Information regarding risks associated with increased competition may be found inItem 1Aof this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Risk
Factors.”

We believe that in addition to price, the principal competitive factors in the market for orthodontic
appliances include the following:



•aesthetic appeal of the treatment method;



•effectiveness of treatment;



•customer support;



•comfort associated with the treatment method;



•oral hygiene;



•ease of use; and



•dental professionals’ chair time.

We believe that Invisalign compares favorably with our competitors’ products with respect to each of these factors.







Government Regulation

FDA’s Quality System Regulation for Medical Devices.The Invisalign system is classified as a
Class II medical device.  In 1998, we received pre-market clearance from the FDA pursuant to the 510(k) pre-market notification procedure, allowing us to market the product in the U.S. The Invisalign system was originally cleared for
use by the FDA in patients with permanent teeth and contraindicated the device for patients presenting with mixed dentition, severe overbite, severe overjet, tooth malocclusion requiring surgical correction, adolescent patients with a skeletally
narrow jaw, and adult patients with dental prosthetics/implants.  In 2008, the FDA cleared new labeling for the Invisalign system, by removing the permanent dentition limitation from the indications for use.  In addition, certain
conditions previously listed as contraindications will now be listed as precautions.  We believe our Invisalign system is in compliance in all material respects with applicable quality system regulations, record keeping and reporting
requirements in the production and distribution of the Invisalign system.  We are subject to routine inspections by the FDA and state agencies to determine compliance with Quality System requirements.  We are registered with the
State of California as a medical device manufacturer.

If the FDA determines that we failed to comply with the applicable FDA
regulations, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions against us, ranging from a public Warning Letter to more severe sanctions, including but not limited to financial penalties, withdrawal of our right to market our products and
criminal prosecution.

Health Canada’s Medical Device Regulations.In Canada, we are
required to comply with Health Canada’s Medical Device Regulations.  Our products are registered with Health Canada.  We believe we are in compliance with their regulations and have been granted clearance to market our
products in Canada.

European Union’s MDD Requirements & ISO 13485:2003.In
Europe, Invisalign is regulated as a custom device and as such, we follow the requirements of the Medical Device Directives.  We are ISO 13485:2003 certified, which facilitates commercialization of Invisalign outside the United States
and especially in Europe.

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996.Under
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, Congress mandated a package of interlocking administrative simplification rules to establish standards and requirements for electronic transmission of certain health
information.  Confidentiality of patient records and the circumstances under which these records may be released are subject to substantial regulations under the HIPAA Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information,
referred to as the Privacy Standard, and other state laws and regulations.  The Privacy Standard governs both the disclosure and the use of confidential patient medical information.  Although compliance is the responsibility of
the hospital, physician or other healthcare provider, we understand the importance to our customers and their patients of maintaining the confidentiality of patient information.  Accordingly, we have designed our product and service
offerings to be consistent with the requirements of the Privacy and Security standards under HIPAA and applicable corresponding state laws and regulations.  Maintaining systems that are consistent with these laws and regulations is costly
and could require complex changes in the way we do business or provide services to our patients.  Additionally, our success may be dependent on the success of healthcare participants in dealing with HIPAA requirements.

Other Federal and State Laws.As a participant in the health care industry we are subject to extensive and
frequently changing regulation under many other laws administered by governmental entities at the federal, state and local levels, some of which are, and others of which may be, applicable to our business.  We are a medical device
manufacturer subject to U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulations. These regulations, among other things, require that we maintain device and facilities registrations and listings as well as promote our products as permitted by our FDA
clearances. Furthermore, our health care service provider customers are also subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations that could affect the nature and scope of their relationships with us. Laws regulating medical device manufacturers and
health care providers cover a broad array of subjects. For example, the confidentiality of patient medical information and the circumstances under which such information may be







used by us, released for inclusion in our databases, or released by us to third parties, are subject to substantial regulation by state governments.  These state laws and regulations
govern both the disclosure and the use of confidential patient medical information and are evolving rapidly.  In addition, provisions under the federal anti- kickback statute prohibit, among other things, paying or offering to pay any
remuneration in exchange for the referral of patients to a person participating in, or for the order, purchase or recommendation of items or services that are subject to reimbursement by, Medicare, Medicaid and other similar federal or state health
care programs. Most states have also enacted illegal remuneration laws that are similar to the federal laws.  These laws, which are evolving at the federal and state levels, are applicable to our financial relationships with, and any
marketing or other promotional activities involving, our dental professional customers.  Violations of any of these laws or regulations could subject us to a variety of civil and criminal sanctions.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we had 1,895 employees, including 1,271 in manufacturing and operations, 281 in sales and marketing, 132 in research and development and 211 in general and administrative functions.  We had 411
employees in North America, 766 employees in Costa Rica, 177 employees in Europe, 531 employees in Mexico, and 10 employees in Japan.

Available Information

Our website is located atwww.aligntech.com, and our investor
relations website is located athttp://investor.aligntech.com.  The information on or accessible through our websites is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statement on Schedule 14A for our annual stockholders’ meeting and amendments to such reports are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website
as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with the SEC.  Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements
and other information regarding our filings atwww.sec.gov.

Executive Officers of
the Registrant

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of
February 26, 2010:



NameAgePositionThomas M. Prescott54President and Chief Executive OfficerKenneth B. Arola54Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial OfficerDana Cambra52Vice President, Research & Development and Information TechnologyDan S. Ellis58Vice President, North American SalesRoger E. George44Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryLen M. Hedge52Senior Vice President, Business OperationsGil Laks44Vice President, InternationalSheilaTan46Vice President, Marketing and Chief Marketing OfficerEmory Wright40Vice President, Operations

Thomas M.
Prescotthas served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our Board of Directors since March 2002.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Prescott was President and Chief Executive Officer of Cardiac
Pathways, Inc., a publicly-traded medical device company, from May 1999 until its acquisition by Boston Scientific in August 2001.  Mr. Prescott then worked as a consultant for Boston Scientific Corporation







until January 2002.  Prior to working at Cardiac Pathways, Mr. Prescott held various sales, general management and executive roles at Nellcor Puritan Bennett, Inc. from April
1994 to May 1999.  Mr. Prescott serves as a director of InterPULSE, Inc., a privately held company.

Kenneth B. Arolahas served as our Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer since December 2007.  He joined us as Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller in August 2005.  Prior to joining
us, Mr. Arola served for fourteen years at Adaptec, Inc, an electronic data storage equipment company, where he held various senior finance management positions, most recently as Vice President of Finance and Corporate
Controller.  His experience also includes positions of increasing responsibility in various financial roles at Varian Associates and Cooper Labs.

Dana C. Cambraour Vice President, Research & Development and Information Technology has been with Align since June 2008.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Cambra served as Senior
Vice President, Research and Development for Pharsight Corporation, a provider of simulation and modeling software for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies from March 2007 to June 2008.  Prior to his role at Pharsight,
Mr. Cambra was Vice President, Engineering at Stentor Inc., a medical image and information management software provider from October 2002 to February 2006.  Earlier roles included executive engineering and operations positions
at Visto Corporation and iScribe, Inc. Mr. Cambra also spent several years in positions of increasing responsibility at Acuson Corporation, now a Siemens Company.

Dan S. Ellishas served as our Vice President, North American Sales since June 2005.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Ellis
was Vice President, Sales for privately-held BARRx Medical, a medical device company, from September 2004 to June 2005.  From June 1999 to May 2004, Mr. Ellis was at Fusion Medical Technologies, a division of Baxter Healthcare, most
recently as Vice President, BioSurgery US. From January 1998 to June 1999, Mr. Ellis served as Vice President, Sales & Marketing for Cardiac Pathways, Inc. Earlier in his career, Mr. Ellis held national sales positions of
increasing scope and responsibility at Fusion Medical Technologies and Eli Lilly MDD/Guidant Corporation.

Roger E.
Georgehas served as our Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 2002.  Prior to joining us, Mr. George was the Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance and Legal
Affairs and General Counsel of SkyStream Networks, a privately held broadband and broadcast network equipment company.  Prior to SkyStream, Mr. George was a partner at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, P.C. in Palo Alto,
California.

Len M. Hedgehas served as our Senior Vice President, Business Operations since December
2007.  He joined us as our Vice President, of Manufacturing in January 1999 and was our Vice President, of Operations from March 2002 to December 2007.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Hedge served as Vice President of Operations
for Plynetics Express Corporation, a rapid-prototyping and stereolithography services supplier, from December 1996 to December 1998.  From October 1991 to December 1996, Mr. Hedge worked at Beckman Instruments Corporation as Manager
for Prototype Manufacturing and Process Development.

Gil Lakshas served as our Vice President, International since
September 2005, and served as our Vice President, Europe since June 2001.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Laks was Vice President, Business Development for the diagnostic imaging division of Singapore Technologies, from November 1999 to May
2001.  He also served as Director of International for ISIX, Ltd., an educational computing services firm, from October 1996 to October 1999.  In January 2010, we announced the addition of an international distributor for
smaller country markets in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA).  As part of the distribution agreement for EMEA, Mr. Laks will leave Align and take on a new role as owner of the new distributor in the second quarter of 2010.

Sheila Tanwas appointed Vice President, Marketing and Chief Marketing Officer in March
2009.  Ms. Tan joined us in September 2008 as Vice President of Product Innovation and Marketing Strategy.  Prior to joining us, Ms. Tan was Vice President, Marketing for Moka5, Inc., a provider of virtual desktop
technology, from







August2007 to July 2008.  She served as Vice President Marketing of Presto Services Inc., a digital-delivery service that enables families and friends to stay in touch via
email, without the need for a computer or Internet connection, from June 2006 to August 2007.  Prior to that, Ms. Tan was Senior Director of Marketing, QuickBooks at Intuit from 2000 to 2005.  From 1995 to 2000, Ms. Tan
held marketing positions of increasing scope and responsibility at The Procter & Gamble Company and its subsidiaries.

Emory M. Wrighthas served as our Vice President, Operations since December 2007.  He has been with us since March 2000, predominantly in manufacturing and operations roles.  Previously, Mr. Wright served as
Vice President, Manufacturing and most recently was General Manager of New Product Development.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Wright was Senior Manufacturing Manager at Metrika, Inc. a medical device manufacturer, from May 1999 to
March 2000.  From July 1994 to May 1999, Mr. Wright served as Manager of Manufacturing and Process Development for Metra Biosystems Inc.







