ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our Company

Align Technology, Inc (“We”, “Our”, “Align”) designs, manufactures and markets a system of clear aligner therapy, intra-oral scanners and CAD/CAM (computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing) digital services used in dentistry, orthodontics, and dental records storage.  Align Technology was founded in March 1997 and incorporated in Delaware in April 1997.  Our headquarters are located at 2560 Orchard Parkway, San Jose, California 95131, and our telephone number is 408-470-1000.  Our internet address is www.aligntech.com.  Our international headquarters are located in Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

We have two operating segments: (1) Clear Aligner, known as the Invisalign System; and (2) Scanners and CAD/CAM Services ("SCCS"), known as the iTero intra-oral scanner and OrthoCAD services.  For the year endedDecember 31, 2013, Clear Aligner revenues represent approximately 93 percent of worldwide revenue, while Scanners and CAD/CAM Services represent the remaining 7 percent of worldwide revenues.  We distribute the vast majority of our products directly to our customers: orthodontists and general practitioner dentists ("GPs"), as well as to restorative dentists, including prosthodontists, periodontists, and oral surgeons.

We received 510(k) clearance from the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) to market the Invisalign System in 1998.  The Invisalign System is regulated by the FDA as a Class II medical device.  In order to provide Invisalign treatment to their patients, orthodontists and GPs must initially complete an Invisalign training course.  The Invisalign System is primarily sold through a direct sales force in the United States ("U.S."), Canada, Europe, and certain Asia-Pacific countries including Australia, New Zealand, China and Japan.  We use a distributor model for the sale of our products in non-core country markets in the Asia Pacific, Europe, the Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Latin America regions.

We acquired the iTero digital intra-oral scanner and CAD/CAM services business, our SCCS segment, in April 2011.  Our iTero scanner is used by dental professionals and/or labs and services for restorative and orthodontic digital procedures as well as Invisalign digital impression submission.  We received 501(k) clearance from the FDA to market iTero software for expanded indications in 2013.  Scanners and CAD/CAM Services are primarily sold through our direct sales force in North America and in select international markets primarily through distribution partners.

Clear Aligner Segment

Malocclusion and Traditional Orthodontic Treatment

Malocclusion, or the misalignment of teeth, is one of the most prevalent clinical dental conditions, affecting nearly a billion people, or approximately 50% to 75% of the population of major developed countries.  Approximately 6.8 million people annually elect treatment by orthodontists worldwide, of which approximately 2.6 million have mild to moderate malocclusion and are applicable to Invisalign treatment - our served market.

In the  U.S., orthodontists and GPs treat malocclusion primarily with metal arch wires and brackets, referred to as braces, and augment braces with elastics, metal bands, headgear and other ancillary devices as needed.  Available options for improving treatment aesthetics include the use of ceramic, tooth-colored brackets or bonding brackets on the inside, or lingual










surface, of the patient’s teeth.  The average treatment takes approximately 12 to 24 months to complete and requires several hours of direct dental professional involvement, known in the industry as “chair time,” including the initial diagnosis, creation of an appropriate treatment plan and bonding of the brackets to the patient’s teeth, and attachment of arch wires to the brackets.  Subsequent visits involve tightening or otherwise adjusting the braces approximately every six weeks until the final visit when the dental professional removes each bracket and residual bonding agent from the patient’s teeth.  Upon completion of the treatment, the dental professional may, at his or her discretion, have the patient use a retainer.



The Invisalign System



The Invisalign System is a proprietary method for treating malocclusion based on a series of doctor-prescribed, custom manufactured, clear plastic removable orthodontic aligners.  The Invisalign System offers a range of treatment options, specialized services, and proprietary software for treatment visualization and is comprised of the following phases:

Orthodontic diagnosis and transmission of treatment data to us.  The dental professional prepares and sends us a patient’s treatment data package which consists of a prescription form, a polyvinyl-siloxane, (or "PVS") impression of the relevant dental arches, photographs of the patient and, at the dental professional’s election, x-rays of the patient’s dentition.  The dental professional can also submit an intra-oral scan or “digital impression” instead of a physical PVS impression through either iTero or 3M True Definition, currently the only other Invisalign qualified intra-oral scanner.

Preparation of 3D computer models of the patient’s initial malocclusion.  Upon receipt, we use the treatment data package to construct digital models of the patient’s dentition.  In cases where a PVS impression has been submitted, we use computed tomography, known as CT scanning to develop a digital, three-dimensional computer model of the patient’s current dentition.  In cases where the dental professional submits a digital impression, this step in the process is eliminated.

Preparation of computer-simulated treatment and viewing of treatment using ClinCheck software.  We transform this initial digital model into a proposed custom, three-dimensional treatment plan, called a ClinCheck treatment plan.  The ClinCheck plan simulates appropriate tooth movement broken down into a series of two-week increments, and details timing and placement of any attachments that will be used during treatment.   Attachments are tooth-colored “buttons” that are sometimes used to increase the biomechanical force on a specific tooth or teeth in order to effect the desired movement.  The patient’s ClinCheck treatment plan is then made available to the prescribing dental professional via the Invisalign Doctor Site which enables the dental professional to project tooth movement with a level of accuracy not previously possible with metal arch wires and brackets.  By reviewing and amending the treatment simulation, the dental professional retains control over the treatment plan.  ClinCheck Pro is the next generation Invisalign treatment software tool, designed to provide more precise control over final tooth position and to help Invisalign providers achieve their treatment goals.  This latest software innovation features interactive 3D controls that, for the first time, allow Invisalign providers to make adjustments to the position of individual teeth directly on the 3D model and to visualize the effects on the whole dentition in real time.

Construction of molds corresponding to each step of treatment.  Upon the dental professional’s approval of the ClinCheck treatment plan, we use the data underlying the simulation, in conjunction with stereolithography technology, to construct a series of molds depicting the future position of the patient’s teeth.  Each mold is a replica of the patient’s teeth at each two-week stage of the simulated course of treatment.

Manufacture of aligners and shipment to the dental professional.  From these molds, aligners are fabricated by pressure-forming polymeric sheets over each mold.  Aligners are thin, clear plastic, removable dental appliances that are custom manufactured in a series to correspond to each two-week stage of the ClinCheck animation.  Aligners are generally worn for consecutive two-week periods which correspond to the approved ClinCheck treatment plan.  After two weeks of use, the patient replaces them with the next pair in the series, advancing tooth movement with each aligner stage.  Throughout treatment, the doctor may place attachments or use other auxiliaries to achieve desired tooth movements, per the doctor’s original prescription and resulting ClinCheck treatment plan.

Retention.  Upon completion of the treatment, the patient may be prescribed our single clear retainer product or our Vivera Retainer product.



Scanners and CAD/CAM Services Segment



Although advancements have been made in materials used for taking dental impressions since their introduction one hundred years ago, the overall impression process has remained relatively unchanged.  Shortcomings such as voids, pulls, and the general margin for error have remained inherent in conventional impressions, and subsequent retakes create unnecessary costs for a clinical practice.  Intra-oral scanning is an emerging technology that we believe will have substantial impact on the future of dentistry.  By enabling the dental practitioner to create a 3D image of the patient’s teeth using a handheld intra-oral










scanner inside the mouth, intra-oral scanning is more efficient and precise and more comfortable for patients, compared to the mess, discomfort, and subjective nature of taking physical impressions.  The digital model created with an intra-oral scanner is more accurate than a physical impression and substantially reduces the rate of restoration “remakes” so patients are recalled less often and the appointment time for the restoration is shorter because of fewer adjustments, which results in greater overall patient satisfaction.

As the only intra-oral scanner in the market based on parallel confocal imaging, the iTero intra-oral scanner utilizes laser and optical scanning to capture the contours of the patient’s dentition, gingival structures and the bite.  iTero captures 100,000 points of laser light in perfect focus without the use of powder to coat the teeth, allowing for contact of the wand and tooth.  The benefit of contact scanning for the clinician is that it eliminates the challenge of hovering over the teeth at a specific distance which can be complicated.  For the patient, they enjoy a more comfortable powder free experience which allows the clinician to provide a very comfortable patient centric experience.  Within minutes, an accurate 3D digital impression can be viewed on the screen.  The 3D digital model file can be used for various procedures and services including fabrication of physical dental models for use by labs to create restorative units such as veneers, inlays, onlays, crowns, bridges and implant abutments; Invisalign digital impression submission; digital records storage; orthodontic diagnosis; and orthodontic retainers and appliances.

The iTero intra-oral scanner consists of a mobile computer unit, display screen, control foot pedal and wand to scan and capture a patient’s dentition (full or partial dental arch).  iTero software features include occlusal map, eraser tool, edge trim tool, real-time modeling and an option to submit scans for Invisalign treatment.  iTero provides doctors and labs with an open choice to export generic digital files of their digital impression to use with other third party dental service providers.  This allows the digital impression to integrate with cone beam CT images for implant and orthodontic treatment planning.  In-office training on the system and features is provided after the unit is delivered to the practice.



Our Products and Services



Our net revenues are generated from the sale of the following product offerings.



Fiscal YearPercentage of Net Revenues by Product201320122011Invisalign Full58%61%63%Invisalign Express/Lite1199Invisalign Teen131211Invisalign Assist456Invisalign Non-case*755Scanners**443CAD/CAM Services**343Total net revenues100%100%100%

*Non-case net revenues include retainers, training revenues, and ancillary offerings under our Clear Aligner product lines**As the acquisition of Cadent Holdings, Inc. (“Cadent”) closed on April 29, 2011, the fiscal year 2011 percentages for Scanners and CAD/CAM Services only reflect eight months of net revenues.

Clear Aligner Products

Invisalign Full. Used for a wide range of malocclusion, Invisalign Full consists of the number of aligners necessary to achieve the doctor’s treatment goals.  For Invisalign Full, aligners are manufactured and then delivered to the dental professionals in a single shipment.  Invisalign Full is sold in the U.S., Canada, and our international regions.

Invisalign Express (10 and 5) and Invisalign Lite/i7.Invisalign Express, Invisalign Lite and Invisalign i7 are lower-cost solutions for less complex orthodontic cases, non-comprehensive treatment relapse cases, or straightening prior to restorative or cosmetic treatments such as veneers.  Invisalign Express 10 and Invisalign Express 5, which are sold in the U.S. and Canada, uses up to 10 and 5 sets of aligners, respectively.  Invisalign Lite and Invisalign i7, sold in our international regions, uses up to 14 and 7 sets of aligners, respectively.  For Invisalign Express/Lite/i7, aligners are manufactured and then delivered to the dental professionals in a single shipment.










Invisalign Teen.Invisalign Teen includes all the features of Invisalign Full, plus additional features that address the orthodontic needs of teenage patients such as compliance indicators, compensation for tooth eruption and six free single arch replacement aligners.  This product is predominantly marketed to orthodontists who treat the vast majority of malocclusion in teenage patients.  For Invisalign Teen, aligners (other than the replacement aligners) are manufactured and then delivered to the dental professionals in a single shipment.  Invisalign Teen is sold in the U.S., Canada, and our international regions.

Invisalign Assist.Used for anterior alignment and aesthetically-oriented cases, Invisalign Assist offers added support to our dental practitioners throughout the treatment process, including progress tracking that allows the dental professional to submit new impressions every nine stages.  When the progress tracking feature is selected, aligners are shipped to the dental professional after every nine stages thereby helping to achieve successful treatment outcomes.  Predominantly marketed to GPs, Invisalign Assist is intended to make it easier to select appropriate cases for their experience level or treatment approach, submit cases more efficiently and manage appointments with suggested tasks.  Invisalign Assist is sold in the U.S. and Canada.

Retention.  We offer two products for post treatment retention.  The first is a single set of custom clear aligner retainers.  The second is offered as a set of four custom clear aligners called Vivera Retainers made with proprietary material strong enough to maintain tooth position and correct minor relapse if necessary.  Each set of Vivera Retainers is intended to be used for three consecutive months and deliver one year of retention.  Doctors can prescribe Vivera Retainers for their Invisalign and their non-Invisalign patients.

Invisalign non-case revenues.  Invisalign non-case revenues represent retainer products discussed above, Invisalign training fees and sales of ancillary products, such as cleaning material and adjusting tools used by dental professionals during the course of treatment.

Feature Enhancements.We have consistently introduced enhanced features across the Invisalign System over the past several years, such as Invisalign G3 (launched in October 2010), Invisalign G4 (launched in November 2011), and, most recently, Invisalign G5 (launched in February 2014).  These feature enhancements are a collection of clinical innovations designed to address some of the most significant treatment challenges doctors encounter.  Most recently, Invisalign G5 is our first set of innovations designed specifically as an integrated solution to enhance treatment predictability for deep bite, a specific type of malocclusion.

Invisalign G5 feature enhancements include:

•Precision Cuts, which are custom mesial and distal hooks used to provide anchorage for elastics and button cutouts to accommodate buttons bonded to the tooth aimed to help treat patients with Class II and Class III malocclusion; and

•SmartForce features engineered to achieve more predictable tooth movements using custom optimized attachments and Power Ridges designed to provide additional force in cases where certain types of root movement are prescribed.

•Precision aligner bite ramps designed to disocclude the posterior teeth for improved efficiency in deep bite treatments.

SmartTrack™Aligner Material.SmartTrack, the next generation of Invisalign clear aligner material is a proprietary, custom-engineered material that delivers gentle, more constant force considered ideal for orthodontic tooth movements. Conventional aligner materials relax and lose a substantial percent of energy in the initial days of aligner wear, but SmartTrack maintains more constant force over the two weeks that a patient wears the aligners.  The flexible SmartTrack material also more precisely conforms to tooth morphology, attachments, and interproximal spaces to improve control of tooth movement throughout treatment.  SmartTrack became the new standard clear aligner material for Invisalign products in North America beginning January 2013 and in February 2013 for Europe and other international markets where we have obtained regulatory approval.

Scanners and CAD/CAM Services Products



Scanners



iTero Scanner.  In January 2013, we announced the new iTero scanner available as a single hardware platform with software options for restorative or orthodontic procedures.  Previously, we sold two hardware platforms, the iTero scanner for GPs, prosthodontists, periodontists, and oral surgeons and the iOC scanner for orthodontists.  The newly redesigned iTero scanner maintains our innovative powderless technology and features a modern design with enhanced wand optics for a smaller, more ergonomic fit, easy-to-use keyboard design and a larger working surface.  Additionally, full color model rendering is available, enabling clinicians to show patients a life-like final model of their scanned dentition. The new iTero










delivers substantially reduced capture time through improved optics and enhanced algorithms while maintaining a high standard of digital imaging accuracy, the efficiency of open source imaging and streamlined workflow.  We began marketing and selling the new iTero in North America beginning February 2013 and soon thereafter in select international markets.



Restorative software for iTero.Software designed for GPs, prosthodontists, periodontists, and oral surgeons which includes features for restorative procedures commonly performed in their practices such as veneers, inlays, onlays, crowns, bridges and implants.  The iTero restorative software provides the ability to scan quadrants and full arches, and allows simple powder-free capture of digital impressions for single-unit cases as well as more complex restorative and implant treatment plans.  The iTero software also contains Invisalign interoperability to support clear aligner orthodontic treatment.



Orthodontic software for iTero.Software designed for orthodontists for digital records storage, orthodontic diagnosis, Invisalign digital impression submission, and for the fabrication of printed models and retainers.  The iTero orthodontic software digitally captures the contours of the dentition and the gingival structures, providing an accurate, powder-free digital orthodontic scan in just minutes.  This digital impression procedure ensures a more comfortable patient experience and produces a precise scan that can be seamlessly integrated with Invisalign treatment, OrthoCAD iCast, and OrthoCAD iRecord which allows a doctor to utilize sophisticated measurement and treatment planning tools.



CAD/CAM Services



iTero Models and Dies.An accurate physical model and dies are manufactured based on the digital scan and sent to the laboratory of the dentist’s choice for completion of the needed restoration.  The laboratory also has the option to export the digital file for immediate production of coping and full-contour restorations on their laboratory CAD/CAM systems.  The laboratory conducts then completes the ceramic buildup or staining and glazing and delivers the end result - a precisely fitting restoration.  iTero prosthetics have a near-zero remake rate.



OrthoCAD iCast.iCast provides a digital alternative to traditional stone cast models which allows for simplified storage and digital record retrieval.  The iCast digital model contains a full American Board of Orthodontics ("ABO") base and is available from an iTero scan or from a traditional alginate impression.



OrthoCAD iRecord.iRecord provides a digital alternative to traditional stone cast models which allows for simplified storage and digital record retrieval.  This simplified model without an ABO base is an economical option for record retention.  iRecord is available exclusively from an iTero scan.



Chair Side Applications



Invisalign Outcome Simulator.  In January 2013, we announced the commercial availability of the Invisalign Outcome Simulator, our first Invisalign chair-side application powered by the iTero scanner.  The interactive application provides GPs and orthodontists an enhanced platform for patient education and is designed to increase treatment acceptance by helping patients visualize the benefits possible with Invisalign treatment.  As the only Invisalign chair-side intra-oral scanning application on the market, the Invisalign Outcome Simulator's unique dual view layout shows a prospective patient an image of his/her own current dentition next to his/her simulated final position of how their teeth may look after Invisalign treatment.  Using a full arch Invisalign scan, the Invisalign Outcome Simulator takes a few minutes to run and may be viewed chair-side, on the scanner, or from a computer using MyAlignTech.com.  Intuitive tools allow doctors to make real-time adjustments to individual teeth during consultations that increase patient education and the likelihood of patient acceptance.



Our iTero scanner includes orthodontic software, restorative software, or both, and the Invisalign Outcome Simulator.  The orthodontic or restorative software may also be purchased subsequently for an upgrade fee.  The Invisalign Outcome Simulator is not available for sale separately.



Other proprietary software mentioned in this Annual Report on Form 10-K such as ClinCheck and ClinCheck Pro software, the Invisalign Doctor Site,and enhanced feature solutions such as Invisalign G5 are included as part of the Invisalign System and are not sold separately nor do they contribute as individual items of revenue.



Business Strategy



Our goal is to establish Invisalign clear aligners as the standard method for treating malocclusion and to establish the iTero intra-oral scanner as the preferred scanning protocol for 3D digital scans, ultimately driving increased product adoption by dental professionals.  We intend to achieve this by continued focus and execution of our strategic growth drivers: Market Expansion, Doctor Preference, and Brand Strength.












1.Market Expansion.  We expect to continue to grow and expand our business by investing in resources, infrastructure, and initiatives that will drive growth from both a geographic and market segment standpoint.  From a geographic standpoint, we focus our efforts on expanding our sales territory coverage in all of our direct sales geographies, with particular emphasis in our highest growth areas such as Europe and the Asia Pacific region.  We strive to make sure that our new geographies and our expanded territories internationally have everything they need from the products, to the support, to the people, in order to successfully establish Invisalign as the treatment of choice for orthodontics in each geographic market.  From a market segment standpoint, we are focused on two important markets: adults and teenagers.  We believe expansion in these two markets can be achieved through product innovations that can expand the types of indications our Invisalign products can treat, as well as by expanding the overall market for orthodontics, primarily with adults who would not otherwise seek treatment with traditional wires and brackets.  We believe continued market expansion can be achieved by having the right products, services, and communications worldwide to give our doctors the confidence they need to treat with Invisalign more often and attract potential patients to their practice so they ask for Invisalign by name.



In parallel with these investments, we also engage in professional marketing, clinical support and education initiatives that support doctor practice development and facilitate the continued growth of their practices.



In our iTero scanner business, we leverage our combined sales and marketing resources to facilitate the adoption and penetration of each product into our doctors’ practices.  Many of our customers recognize that having an iTero scanner at chair-side improves practice effectiveness for Invisalign as evidenced by higher Invisalign utilization rates among customers with an iTero scanner.



2.Doctor Preference.We want all of our doctors to have the confidence and motivation to lead with Invisalign for every patient that walks into their practice.  We strive to achieve this by investing in two areas.  First, continuing to improve product predictability and applicability for more complex cases thereby expanding the types of malocclusion that our Invisalign products can treat.  As an example, we recently launched Invisalign G5 in February 2014, which represented our first set of features engineered specifically to treat deep bite malocclusion.  We estimate that deep bite manifests itself in approximately 30% to 40% of the orthodontic cases treated worldwide depending on geography.  Secondly, enhancing the customer’s experience by making it easier to treat with and integrate Invisalign into their practices.  As an example, we recently launched ClinCheck Pro in February 2014, the next generation Invisalign treatment software tool, designed to simplify the treatment process and help our doctors achieve their treatment goals.



3.Brand Strength.Our goal is to make Invisalign a highly recognized name brand worldwide by creating awareness for Invisalign treatment among consumers and motiving potential patients to seek treatment from an Invisalign provider.  In support of this objective, we invest in initiatives designed to strengthen our global brand name recognition and drive consumer purchase intent.  We accomplish this objective through an integrated consumer marketing strategy that includes television, media, social networking and event marketing.



Manufacturing and Suppliers



Our manufacturing facilities are located in Juarez, Mexico, where we conduct our aligner fabrication, distribute and repair our scanners, perform our CAD/CAM services, and in Or Yehuda, Israel where we produce our handheld intra-oral scanner wand.  The final assembly of our  iTero scanner is performed by a third party manufacturer located in Israel.  Our Invisalign digital treatment planning and interpretation for iTero restorative cases are conducted primarily at our facility located in San Jose, Costa Rica.  Information regarding risks associated with our manufacturing process and foreign operations may be found inItem 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.”



Our quality system is required to be in compliance with the Quality System regulations enforced by the FDA, and similar regulations enforced by other worldwide regulatory authorities.  We are certified to EN ISO 13485:2003, an internationally recognized standard for medical device manufacturing.  We have a formal, documented quality system by which quality objectives are defined, understood and achieved.  Systems, processes and procedures are implemented to ensure high levels of product and service quality.  We monitor the effectiveness of the quality system based on internal data and direct customer feedback and strive to continually improve our systems and processes, taking corrective action, as needed.



Since the manufacturing process of our products requires substantial and varied technical expertise, we believe that our manufacturing capabilities are important to our success.  In order to produce our highly customized, highly precise, medical quality products in volume, we have developed a number of proprietary processes and technologies.  These technologies










include complex software algorithms and solutions, CT scanning, stereolithography and automated aligner fabrication.  To increase the efficiency of our manufacturing processes, we continue to focus our efforts on software development and the improvement of rate-limiting processes, or bottlenecks.  We continuously upgrade our proprietary, three-dimensional treatment planning software to enhance computer analysis of treatment data and to reduce time spent on manual and judgmental tasks for each case, thereby increasing the efficiency of our technicians in Costa Rica.  In addition, to improve efficiency and increase the scale of our operations, we continue to invest in the development of automated systems for the fabrication and packaging of aligners.



We are highly dependent on manufacturers of specialized scanning equipment, rapid prototyping machines, resin and other advanced materials for our aligners, as well as the optics, electronic and other mechanical components of our intra-oral scanners.  We maintain single supply relationships for many of these machines and materials technologies.  In particular, our CT scanning and stereolithography equipment used in our aligner manufacturing and many of the critical components for the optics of our intra-oral scanners are provided by single suppliers.  We are also committed to purchasing all of our resin and polymer, the primary raw materials used in our manufacturing process for clear aligners, from a single source.  The need to replace one of our single source suppliers could cause a disruption in our ability to timely deliver certain of our products or increase costs.   See Item 1A Risk Factors— “We maintain single supply relationships for certain of our key machines and materials technologies, and our business andoperating results could be harmed if supply is restricted or ends or the price of raw materials used in our manufacturing process increases.”



Sales and Marketing



Our sales efforts are focused primarily on the Invisalign System and continuing to increase adoption and utilization by orthodontists and GPs worldwide.  In North America, Europe and certain Asia-Pacific country markets, we have direct sales and support organizations, which includes quota carrying sales representatives, sales management, and sales administration.  Our direct sales organization in North America is comprised of a team of territory managers and to a lesser extent, territory specialists.  These territory specialists are used to enhance coverage, especially with lower volume GP customers.



Currently, we have two distribution partners that sell the Invisalign System in smaller non-core country markets in the EMEA and Latin America regions.  We evaluate adding distribution partners in other non-core country markets on a case-by-case basis or assess modifying our current distribution agreements, as our international business grows.  Our EMEA distribution partner has been covering approximately 80 country markets and continues to make good progress in building a base of Invisalign trained doctors in those regions.  Given the significant long term potential this extensive geography represents and the support we can now provide by utilizing our direct coverage model in Europe, beginning in February 2014, we will transition a small number of those countries into direct sales regions.  We expect to leverage our existing infrastructure and resources to bring sales coverage and customer support to these countries, most of which are adjacent to our directly covered European countries.  Due to the small volume of business from our EMEA distributor, we do not anticipate that this transition will have a material effect on our financial results in the next several years.



For our intra-oral scanners, we have a small team of direct sales representatives in North America.  Our intra-oral scanner sales team leverages leads generated by our Invisalign sales and marketing resources, including customer events and industry trade-shows.  In 2014, we expect to have very few scanner sales internationally as we continue to evaluate the most effective sales model in this market.



We market Invisalign by communicating the benefits of the Invisalign System to dental professionals through our training programs, online and traditional mail campaigns, trade shows, trade journals and print.  We also promote the benefits of Invisalign through our integrated consumer marketing platform which combines traditional print and broadcast media with a balanced mix of public relations, event marketing, and social media.  The goal of this platform is to raise awareness of Invisalign as the best options for a healthy, beautiful smile among adults and teenagers.  In addition, our consumer marketing platform enables us to help prospective patients find a great Invisalign treatment practice that can meet their needs.  For intra-oral scanners, in addition to leveraging Invisalign customer events and industry trade-shows to communicate the benefits of digital scanning to dental professionals, we also have training programs, educational websites and limited print advertising.



We provide training, marketing and clinical support to orthodontists and GPs.  In2013, we had approximately 38,000 active Invisalign providers.












Research and Development



We are committed to investing in world-class technology development, which we believe is critical to achieving our goal of establishing the Invisalign System as the standard method for treating malocclusion and our intra-oral scanning platform as the preferred scanning protocol for 3D digital scans.  Our research and development expenses were$44.1 million,$42.9 million, and$37.2 millionfor the year endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011, respectively.



Our research and development activities are directed toward developing the technology innovations that we believe will deliver our next generation of products and platforms.  Our research and development activities range from accelerating product and clinical innovation, to developing manufacturing process improvements, to researching future technologies and products.



In an effort to demonstrate Invisalign’s broad treatment capabilities, various clinical case studies and articles have been published that highlight the clinical applicability of Invisalign to malocclusion cases, including those of severe complexity.  We undertake pre-commercialization trials and testing of our technological improvements to the product and manufacturing process.



Intellectual Property



We believe our intellectual property position represents a substantial business advantage.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had313issued U.S. patents,124pending U.S. patent applications, and239foreign issued patents, as well as116pending foreign patent applications.



We continue to pursue further intellectual property protection through U.S. and foreign patent applications and non-disclosure agreements.  We also seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws.  We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of any patent application or that patents that have been issued to us or that may be issued in the future will be found to be valid and enforceable and sufficient to protect our technology or products.  Our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged.  In addition, the laws of various foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws.  Our inability to protect our proprietary information could harm our business.  Information regarding risks associated with failing to protect our proprietary technology and our intellectual property rights may be found inItem 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.”



Seasonal Fluctuations



General economic conditions impact our business and financial results, and we experience seasonal trends related to our two operating segments, customer channels and the geographic locations that we serve.  For example, European sales of Invisalign treatment are often weaker in the summer months due to our customers and their patients being on holiday.  In North America, summer is typically the busiest season for orthodontists with practices that have a high percentage of adolescent and teenage patients as many parents want to get their teenagers started in treatment before the start of the school year; however, many GPs are on vacation during this time and therefore tend to start fewer cases.  For our SCCS segment, capital equipment sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter.  Consequently, these seasonal trends have caused and may continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates.



Backlog



Due to the individualized nature of an Invisalign treatment which is prescribed by a doctor, no two cases are alike, and we maintain relatively low levels of backlog.  The period from which a treatment data package (or “a case”) is received until the acceptance of the digital ClinCheck treatment plan is dependent on the dental professional’s discretion to modify, accept or cancel the treatment plan.  Therefore, we consider the case a firm order to manufacture aligners once the dental professional has approved the ClinCheck treatment plan.  Our Invisalign backlog consists of ClinCheck treatment plans that have been accepted but not yet shipped.  Because aligners are shipped shortly after the ClinCheck treatment plan has been accepted, we believe that backlog is not a good indicator of future Invisalign sales.  Our quarterly Invisalign revenues can be impacted by the timing of the ClinCheck treatment plan acceptances and our ability to ship those cases in the same quarter.  We define our intra-oral scanner backlog as orders where payment is reasonably assured and credit and financing is approved but the scanner has not yet shipped.  Our intra-oral scanner backlog as ofDecember 31, 2013was not material.












Competition



We operate in a highly competitive market and we encounter a wide variety of competitors, including larger companies or divisions of larger companies with substantial sales, marketing, research and financial capabilities.  We also face competition from early stage companies.  Although the number of competitors varies by segment, currently our products compete directly against products manufactured and distributed by various companies, both within and outside the U.S., including Danaher Corporation, 3M, Sirona Dental Systems, Inc. and Dentsply International, Inc.  Information regarding risks associated with increased competition may be found inItem 1Aof this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.”



Key competitive factors include:

•effectiveness of treatment;

•price;

•software features;

•aesthetic appeal of the treatment method;

•customer support;

•customer online interface;

•brand awareness;

•innovation;

•distribution network;

•comfort associated with the treatment method;

•oral hygiene;

•ease of use; and

•dental professionals’ chair time.



We believe that our products compare favorably with our competitors’ products with respect to each of these factors.

Government Regulation



In order for us to market our products, we must obtain regulatory authorization and comply with extensive product and quality system regulations.  These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country.  Failure to obtain regulatory approval and to meet all local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any country in which we currently market or plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines.  The approval by government authorities is unpredictable and uncertain and may not be granted on a timely basis, if  at all.  Delays in receipt of, or a failure to receive, such approvals or clearances, or the loss of any previously received approvals or clearances, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.



We believe we are in compliance with all FDA, federal and state laws and International regulatory requirements that are applicable to our products and manufacturing operations.  Country-specific regulatory framework and requirements are highlighted in the following examples:

U.S.



In the U.S., the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act ("FDA Act") and its subsequent amendments, and the regulations, provide the FDA with authority over medical devices and the research, clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, distribution, sale, and promotion of such devices.  Medical devices are classified into one of three classes (Class I, II or III). The class to which the device is assigned determines, among other things, the type of pre-marketing submission/application required for market authorization.  Our Invisalign aligners and intra-oral scanners are classified as Class II medical devices and we have obtained applicable 510(k) clearances for our marketed products.












The FDA Act also requires manufactured devices to comply with applicable Quality System Regulations which impose certain procedural and documentation requirements upon us with respect to design, development, manufacturing and quality assurance activities, including the reporting of adverse experiences with the use of the device.  We are subject to unannounced inspections by regulatory authorities to determine compliance with applicable regulations, and these inspections may include the manufacturing facilities of our subcontractors.  Labeling and promotion activities are subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain instances, by the Federal Trade Commission.  The FDA actively enforces regulations prohibiting marketing of products for unapproved uses.  Noncompliance with applicable requirements can result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizures of products, total or partial suspension of production, failure of the government to grant pre-market clearance or approval for devices, withdrawal of marketing approvals, and criminal prosecution.  The FDA also has the authority to request repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any medical device manufactured or distributed by us.



European Union

The member states of the European Union ("EU") have adopted the European Medical Device Directives (MDD 93/42/EEC) that form a single set of medical device regulations for all EU member countries.  The MDD defines the quality system, safety, and performance requirements to be met by manufacturers for their products, called the Essential Requirements. Certification to ISO 13485, an international standard for quality management systems, demonstrates compliance with the quality system requirements outlined in the MDD.  Our Quality Management System is ISO 13485 certified by the British Standards Institute, an approved full scope Notified Body (as defined in the regulations).

Canada

In Canada, the system of approval for medical devices is governed by the Medical Device Regulations of the Department of Justice (SOR/98-282), including quality system requirements based on ISO 13485, facility registration, and device licensing.  The scope of our Quality Management System certification includes the additional requirements defined by Health Canada.

Japan

In Japan, the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare (MHLW), regulates medical devices under the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law ("PAL").  Manufacturers with no local presence in Japan must appoint a Marketing Authorization Holder ("MAH") to manage their device registration process and liaise with the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency ("PMDA"), Japan’s medical device market regulator.  Manufacturers of Class II, III and IV devices must implement a quality system compliant with the PAL and MHLW Ordinance #169 (Japan QMS Regulation) and submit QMS Conformity Assessment Application.  The scope of our Quality Management System certification includes the additional requirements defined by PAL and Invisalign has been authorized for sale.

China

In China, the China Food and Drug Administration ("CFDA") regulates medical devices.  The device classification process in China differs significantly from those in the EU and the U.S., and approval of the medical device in the country of origin is required before beginning the registration process.  Compliance with U.S. FDA Quality System Requirements and/or ISO 13485 will satisfy CFDA quality management system requirements.  CFDA has approved our submission for Invisalign.



Other Government Oversight



We are also subject to various laws inside and outside the U.S. concerning our relationships with healthcare professionals and government officials, price reporting and regulation, the promotion, sales and marketing of our products and services, the importation and exportation of our products, the operation of our facilities and distribution of our products.  As a global company, we are subject to varying degrees of government regulation in the various countries in which we do business, and the general trend is toward increasingly stringent oversight and enforcement.  Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies, and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare expenses generally are ongoing in markets where we do business.  It is not possible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost containment measures on our future business.



Our customers are healthcare providers that may be reimbursed by federally funded programs such as Medicaid or a foreign national healthcare program, each of which may offer some degree of oversight.  Many government agencies, both domestic and foreign, have increased their enforcement activities with respect to healthcare providers and companies in recent










years.  Enforcement actions and associated defense can be expensive, and any resulting findings carry the risk of significant civil and criminal penalties. For example, the U.S. Federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act recently went into effect, which requires public transparency of transfers of value to physicians.



We are also subject to numerous data protection requirements that span from individual state and national laws in the US to multinational requirements in the EU.  In the U.S., final regulations implementing amendments to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) became effective in the latter part of 2013 with the HIPAA Omnibus Rule.  The EU is currently considering a proposal to enact legislation governing data protection which would transform the current mix of European countries’ laws to one overarching multinational law.  Meanwhile, in the Asia-Pacific region has also seen rapid development of privacy laws, including in Singapore, Hong Kong, and Australia.  We believe we have designed our product and service offerings to be compliant with the requirements of applicable data protection laws and regulations.  Maintaining systems that are compliant with these laws and regulations is costly and could require complex changes in the way we do business or provide services to our customers and their patients.   Additionally, our success may be dependent on the success of healthcare providers in managing data protection requirements.



Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately 3,420 employees, including 2,280 in manufacturing and operations, 640 in sales and marketing which includes customer care, 230 in research and development and 270 in general and administrative functions.



Available Information



Our website is located atwww.aligntech.com, and our investor relations website is located athttp://investor.aligntech.com.  The information on or accessible through our websites is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statement on Schedule 14A for our annual stockholders’ meeting and amendments to such reports are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with the SEC.  Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings atwww.sec.gov.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as ofFebruary 28, 2014:



NameAgePositionThomas M. Prescott58President and Chief Executive OfficerDavid L. White58Chief Financial OfficerJennifer M. Erfurth44Vice President, Global Human ResourcesRoger E. George48Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs General CounselJohn P. Graham45Vice President, Marketing and Chief Marketing OfficerTimothy A. Mack55Vice President, Marketing and Business DevelopmentRaphael Pascaud42Vice President, InternationalChristopher C. Puco53Vice President, North American SalesZelko Relic49Vice President, Research & DevelopmentEmory M. Wright44Vice President, Operations



Thomas M. Prescotthas served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our Board of Directors since March 2002.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Prescott was President and Chief Executive Officer of Cardiac Pathways, Inc., a publicly-traded medical device company, from May 1999 until its acquisition by Boston Scientific in August 2001.  Mr. Prescott  then worked as a consultant for Boston Scientific Corporation until January 2002.  Prior to working at Cardiac Pathways, Mr. Prescott held various sales, general management and executive roles at Nellcor Puritan Bennett, Inc. from April 1994 to May 1999.



David L. Whitehas served as our Chief Financial Officer ("CFO") since August 2013.  Prior to joining us, Mr. White was CFO of Enecsys, Ltd., a privately-held supplier of solar micro inverters and monitoring systems from June 2012.  Prior to Enecsys, he was Executive Vice President and CFO at NVIDIA Corporation, a fabless semiconductor company known for its development of advanced graphics and high performance computing processors from February 2009 to June 2011.  Prior to










NVIDIA, he was Executive Vice President of Finance and CFO at SANMINA-SCI Corporation, which provides contract design, supply chain, and manufacturing services from 2004 to 2009.  He also served as CFO at Asyst Technologies Corporation, CEO at Candescent Technologies Corporation, and Senior Vice President of Finance at Connor Peripherals.



Jennifer M. Erfurthhas served as our Vice President, Global Human Resources since October 2012.  Prior to joining us, Ms. Erfurth was Senior Vice President of Shared Services at Dyno Nobel, Inc., a manufacturer and supplier of industrial explosives, from July 2011 to July 2012, and was Vice President, Human Resources for Federal Signal Corporation prior to that.  From 2001 to 2010, Ms. Erfurth held positions of increasing responsibility at Schawk, Inc., most recently as Global Senior Vice President of Human Resources, a position she held from 2007 until her departure in 2010.  Earlier in her career, she served as Director of  Human Resources at CINTAS Corporation and World Color.



Roger E. Georgehas served as our Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 2002.  Prior to joining us, Mr. George was the Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance and Legal Affairs and General Counsel of SkyStream Networks, a privately held broadband and broadcast network equipment company.  Prior to SkyStream, Mr. George was a partner at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, P.C. in Palo Alto, California.



John P. Grahamhas served as our Vice President, Marketing and Chief Marketing Officer since July 2013.  From 2011 until he joined us, Mr. Graham was Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer at GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, a global healthcare company.  Prior to GlaxoSmithKline, he was with Johnson & Johnson for 15 years in multiple marketing leadership roles, including Vice President, U.S. Marketing for Johnson & Johnson Vision Care.



Timothy A. Mackhas served as our Vice President, Marketing and Business Development since May 2012.  He served as Vice President, Business Development since our  acquisition of Cadent Holdings, Inc. in April 2011.  At Cadent, he was President and Chief Executive Officer since 2009.  He joined Cadent in 2005, as Executive Vice President & General Manager where he led the introduction and adoption of Cadent’s new 3D digital imaging technology into the market.  Prior to Cadent, Mr. Mack was Vice President and General Manager of DENTSPLY Ceramco, a wholly-owned subsidiary of DENTSPLY International.  Prior to DENTSPLY, Mr. Mack held a series of management positions in the U.S. and Europe within Consumer Electronics and Medical Imaging Divisions at Eastman Kodak Company.



Raphael Pascaudwas appointed Vice President, International in January 2014.  He joined Align in  2010 as Vice President and Managing Director for the Europe, Middle East and Africa Region, ("EMEA").  Prior to Align, Mr. Pascaud spent 14 years in various management positions within DePuy, a Johnson & Johnson family of companies, including Vice President Orthopedics of EMEA and Vice President Marketing of International.



Christopher C. Pucohas served as our Vice President, North America Sales since December 2012.  He joined Align in 2006 as a sales director and in 2008 became senior director for the Eastern sales area.  Most recently, as Vice President of Sales Strategy, he led Align's go-to-market strategy and managed the integration of the North American scanner and CAD/CAM services sales organization.  Mr. Puco has more than 20 years of experience in the medical device industry, holding sales management positions in both starts-ups and established corporate environments.  Prior to Align, he was with United States Surgical Corporation, General Surgical Innovations, Baxter BioSurgery and Fusion Medical Technologies.



Zelko Relicwas appointed Vice President, Research & Development in December 2013.  Prior to joining Align, Mr. Relic was Vice President, Engineering for Datalogic Automation, a global leader in automatic data capture and industrial automation markets from 2012.  Mr. Relic was previously Vice President, Engineering at Danaher Corporation, Accu-Sort Systems business from 2010 to 2012 before it was acquired by Datalogic Automation.  From 2005 to 2010, he was Vice President at Siemens Medical Solutions USA and from 2002 to 2004 he held senior management positions in engineering at Kulicke & Soffa Industries, designers and manufactures of semiconductor products.  He  also held management positions at KLA-Tencor, manufacturer of metrology tools from 1994 to 2000.



Emory M. Wrighthas served as our Vice President, Operations since December 2007.  He has been with us since March 2000, predominantly in manufacturing and operations roles.  Previously, Mr. Wright served as Vice President, Manufacturing and, most recently, was General Manager of New Product Development.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Wright was Senior Manufacturing Manager at Metrika, Inc. a medical device manufacturer, from May 1999 to March 2000.  From July 1994 to May 1999, Mr. Wright served as Manager of Manufacturing and Process Development for Metra Biosystems Inc.





