ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our
Company

Align Technology, Inc. (“We”, “Our”, or “Align”) designs,
manufactures and markets the Invisalign system, a proprietary method for treating malocclusion, or the misalignment of teeth.  Invisalign corrects malocclusion using a series of clear, nearly invisible, removable appliances that gently
move teeth to a desired final position.  Because it does not rely on the use of metal or ceramic brackets and wires, Invisalign significantly reduces the aesthetic and other limitations associated with metal arch wires and brackets,
commonly referred to as braces.  We received the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) clearance to market Invisalign in 1998.  The Invisalign system is regulated by the FDA as a Class II medical
device.

We distribute the vast majority of our products directly to our customers: the orthodontist and the general
practitioner dentist, or GP.  In order to provide the Invisalign treatment solution to their patients, orthodontists and GPs must initially complete an Invisalign training course.  The Invisalign system is sold in North
America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Japan.  We use a distributor model for the sale of our products in parts of the Asia Pacific, Latin American, and smaller country markets in Europe, the Middle East and Africa
regions.

We were incorporated in Delaware in April 1997.  Our headquarters are currently located at
2560 Orchard Parkway, San Jose, California 95131, and our telephone number is 408-470-1000.  Our international headquarters are located in Amsterdam, Netherlands.  Our digital planning and software facility is located in San
Jose, Costa Rica and our aligner manufacturing facility is located in Juarez, Mexico.

Industry Background

Malocclusion

Malocclusion, or the misalignment of teeth, is one of the most prevalent clinical dental conditions, affecting approximately 50 to 75% of the population of major developed countries or nearly a billion
individuals.  Approximately 6.8 million people annually elect treatment by orthodontists worldwide, of which approximately 2.6 million have mild to moderate malocclusion and are applicable to Invisalign—our served







market.  While most individuals seek orthodontic treatment to improve their appearance, malocclusion may also be responsible for dental problems such as tooth decay, tooth loss, gum
disease, jaw joint pain and headaches.  Because of the compromised aesthetics, discomfort and other drawbacks associated with traditional orthodontic treatments, only a relatively small proportion of people with malocclusion seek
treatment.

Traditional Orthodontic Treatment

In the U.S., dental professionals treat malocclusion primarily with metal arch wires and brackets, commonly referred to as braces.  Occasionally, dental professionals attempt to improve
treatment aesthetics by using ceramic, tooth-colored brackets or bond brackets on the inside, or lingual surfaces, of the patient’s teeth.  Dental professionals also augment braces with elastics, metal bands, headgear and other
ancillary devices.

The average treatment takes approximately 12 to 24 months to complete and requires several hours of
direct dental professional involvement, or chair time.  To initiate treatment, a dental professional will diagnose a patient’s condition and create an appropriate treatment plan.  In a subsequent visit, the dental
professional will bond brackets to the patient’s teeth with a bonding agent and attach an arch wire to the brackets.  Thereafter, by tightening or otherwise adjusting the braces approximately every six weeks, the dental professional
is able to exert sufficient force on the patient’s teeth to achieve desired tooth movement.  In a final visit, the dental professional removes each bracket and residual bonding agent from the patient’s teeth.  Upon
completion of the treatment, the dental professional may, at his or her discretion, have the patient use a retainer.

Fees for
traditional orthodontic treatment in the U.S. typically range between $3,500 to $8,000 with a median fee of approximately $5,000; generally only a portion of the fee is reimbursed by insurance.  Fees are based on the difficulty of the
particular case and on the dental professional’s estimate of chair time, and are generally negotiated in advance.  A treatment that exceeds the dental professional’s estimate of chair time generally results in decreased fees per
hour of chair time, and reduced profitability for the dental professional.

Limitations of Traditional Orthodontic Treatment

Although braces are generally effective in correcting a wide range of malocclusions, they are subject to many limitations
and disadvantages.  Traditional orthodontic treatment is associated with:



•Unattractive appearance.Braces call attention to the patient’s condition and treatment.  In addition,
braces trap food, which can further compromise appearance.  Braces can also result in permanent discoloration of teeth.  As a result of these and other limitations, relatively few adults with malocclusion elect traditional
orthodontic treatment and braces can compromise the self esteem of young adults and teenagers.



•Oral discomfort.Braces are sharp and bulky and can abrade and irritate the interior surfaces of the
mouth.  The tightening or adjustment of braces results in root and gum soreness and discomfort, especially in the few days immediately following an orthodontic visit.



•Poor oral hygiene.Braces can make it difficult to brush and floss leaving teeth vulnerable to developing decay, plaque,
periodontal disease and stains that must be taken care of after braces are removed.  Additionally, the bonding of brackets to teeth can cause permanent markings on the teeth.



•Inability to project treatment.Historically, dental professionals have not had a means to model the movement of teeth
over a course of treatment.  Accordingly, dental professionals must rely on intuition and judgment to plan and project treatment.  As a result, they cannot be precise about the direction or distance of expected tooth movement
between patient visits.  This lack of predictability may result in unwanted tooth movements and can limit the dental professional’s ability to estimate the duration of treatment.  Because most orthodontic treatment is
performed on a fixed price basis, extended treatment duration reduces profitability for the dental professional.







•Physical demands on dental professional.The manipulation of wires and brackets requires sustained manual dexterity and
visual acuity, and may place other physical burdens on the dental professional.



•Root resorption.The sustained high levels of force associated with traditional treatment can result in root resorption,
which is a shortening of tooth roots.  This shortening can have substantial adverse periodontal consequences for the patient.



•Emergencies.At times, brackets and wires need to be repaired or replaced on an emergency basis.  Such
emergencies cause significant inconvenience to both the patient and the dental professional.

Due to the
poor aesthetics, discomfort and other limitations of braces, relatively few adults with malocclusion elect traditional orthodontic treatment.  Additionally, teenagers that seek orthodontic treatment have traditionally only had the option
of braces for treatment.  Accordingly, we believe there is a large unmet need for an alternative orthodontic treatment that addresses these patient concerns.

The Invisalign Solution

Invisalign is a proprietary system for
treating malocclusion based on a series of doctor-prescribed, custom manufactured, clear plastic removable orthodontic appliances (aligners).  The Invisalign system offers a range of treatment options, specialized services, and proprietary
software for treatment visualization.  Comprised of several phases, the principal steps of the Invisalign system are the creation of customized digital treatment plans using proprietary software known as ClinCheck software, which occurs in
our facility in San Jose, Costa Rica, and the manufacturing of customized Invisalign aligners, which occurs in our facility in Juarez, Mexico.

Orthodontic diagnosis and transmission of treatment data to us.    In an initial patient visit, the dental professional determines whether Invisalign is an appropriate
treatment.  The dental professional then prepares a treatment data package which consists of prescription form, a polyvinyl-siloxane, or PVS impression of the relevant dental arches, photographs of the patient and, at the dental
professional’s election, x-rays of the patient’s dentition.  The impression is a critical component of the Invisalign system as it depicts the three-dimensional geometry of the patient’s teeth and hence forms the basis for
our computer models and subsequent molds and aligners.  An impression requires the patient to bite into a viscous material.  This material hardens, capturing the shape of the patient’s teeth.  The prescription is
also a critical component of the Invisalign system, describing the desired positions and movement of the patient’s teeth.  The dental professional sends the treatment data to our facility in Juarez, Mexico.

Preparation of three-dimensional computer models of the patient’s initial malocclusion.    Upon receipt,
we use the treatment data to construct digital models of the patient’s dentition.  Using computed tomography, known as CT scanning, we scan the PVS impression to develop a digital, three-dimensional computer model of the
patient’s current dentition.  We then transmit this initial computer model together with the dental professional’s prescription and supplemental materials electronically to our facility in San Jose, Costa Rica.

Preparation of computer-simulated treatment and viewing of treatment using ClinCheck software.    In Costa
Rica, we transform this initial digital model into a proposed custom, three-dimensional treatment plan that simulates appropriate tooth movement in a series of two-week increments.  This simulated treatment plan, called a ClinCheck
treatment plan, is based on an internally developed and proprietary computer modeling program that allows dental professionals to diagnose and plan treatments for their patients.  This ClinCheck treatment plan is then reviewed for
adherence to prescribed clinical treatment and quality standards.  Upon completion of the review, the patient’s ClinCheck treatment plan is then made available to the prescribing dental professional via the Invisalign Doctor Site
(formally known as the Virtual Invisalign Practice or VIP), our proprietary customer interfacing software portal, which is available on our websites located atwww.invisalign.comandwww.aligntechinstitute.com.  The dental professional then reviews the ClinCheck treatment plan and can either accept the proposed treatment or request modifications and adjustments until satisfied with the treatment







plan.  The ClinCheck animation allows the dental professional to view this three-dimensional simulation with a high degree of magnification and from any angle.  Accordingly,
the ClinCheck treatment plan enables the dental professional to project tooth movement with a level of accuracy not previously possible with metal arch wires and brackets.  By reviewing and amending the treatment simulation, the dental
professional retains control over the treatment plan and, thus participates in the customized design of the aligners.  At this point, the dental professional may also invite the patient to view the treatment plan, allowing the patient to
see the projected course of treatment.  The dental professional’s final approval of the proposed ClinCheck treatment plan engages us to manufacture the corresponding molds and aligners in Juarez, Mexico.

Construction of molds corresponding to each step of treatment.    Upon the dental professional’s approval
of the ClinCheck treatment plan, we use the data underlying the simulation, in conjunction with stereolithography technology, to construct a series of molds depicting the future position of the patient’s teeth.  Each mold is a replica
of the patient’s teeth at each two-week stage of the simulated course of treatment.  These molds are then used to fabricate the patient’s aligners.

Manufacture of aligners and shipment to the dental professional

Retention.  Upon completion of the treatment, the patient may be prescribed our single clear
retainer product or our Vivera retainer product.  Vivera retainers are shipped every three months over the one year period.

Our Products

Our revenues are generated from the sale of the
following product offerings.



Percentage of Revenues by ProductFiscal Year2010Fiscal Year2009Fiscal Year2008Invisalign Full68%75%84%Invisalign Express/Lite998Invisalign Teen1482Invisalign Assist43—Non-case556Total100%100%100%







Invisalign G3.In October of 2010, we launched Invisalign G3, the most
significant collection of new features and innovation in our company’s history touching virtually every system and product.  Significant improvements and enhancements were made to all our customer-facing systems.  For
instance, the Invisalign Doctor Site now consolidates all of a patient’s Invisalign records and treatment tasks together in one location for easy access and the ClinCheck software now includes drag and drop features, additional clinical tools
and a more intuitive interface.  In addition, with the exception of our Vivera retainers, we introduced new and expanded features across our product line.  Engineered to deliver even better clinical results, the new Invisalign G3
aligner and software features make it easier to use Invisalign with patients who have Class II and Class III malocclusion. The new features include:



•Precision Cuts which are custom mesial and distal hooks to provide anchorage for elastics and button cutouts to accommodate buttons bonded to the tooth
aimed to help treat patients with Class II and Class III malocclusion; and



•New SmartForce features engineered to achieve more predictable tooth movements using custom optimized attachments and Power Ridges.

Invisalign G3 is currently available in North America and will be launched internationally in the second
quarter of 2011.

Invisalign Full.    Invisalign Full is intended to be used as a complete
treatment for a broad range of malocclusions.  Each treatment plan is unique to the individual patient and will consist of as many aligners as indicated by ClinCheck treatment plan in order to achieve the doctor’s treatment
goals.  For Invisalign Full, aligners are manufactured and then delivered to the dental professionals in a single shipment.

Invisalign Express and Invisalign Lite.Invisalign Express and Invisalign Lite are lower-cost solutions for less complex orthodontic cases that meet certain predetermined
clinical criteria and includes non-comprehensive treatment relapse cases, for minor crowding and spacing, or as a pre-cursor to restorative or cosmetic treatments such as veneers.  Invisalign Express uses up to 10 sets of aligners and is
sold in the U.S. and Canada.  Invisalign Lite uses up to 14 sets of aligners and is sold to our International regions.  For Invisalign Express/Lite, aligners are manufactured and then delivered to the dental professionals in a
single shipment.

Invisalign Teen.Invisalign Teen is designed to meet the specific needs of the
non-adult comprehensive or teen treatment market.  Invisalign Teen includes features such as compliance indicators to help gauge patient wear and compliance and specially engineered aligner features to address the natural eruption of key
teeth common in teen patients.  Predominantly marketed to orthodontists who treat the vast majority of malocclusion in teen patients, these features are intended to meet the treatment needs of those younger patients.  As part of
Invisalign Teen, we include up to six free individual replacement aligners during active treatment to cover potential aligner loss.  For Invisalign Teen, aligners (other than the replacement aligners) are manufactured and then delivered to
the dental professionals in a single shipment.

Invisalign Assist.Invisalign
Assist is designed specifically for GPs who want more support in selecting, monitoring and finishing Invisalign cases.  Intended to help newly-trained and lower volume GPs accelerate the adoption and frequency of use of
Invisalign into their practice, Invisalign Assist is intended to make it easier for GPs to select appropriate cases for their experience level or treatment approach, submit cases more efficiently and manage appointments with suggested
tasks.  In addition, progress tracking features allow GPs to submit new impressions every nine stages.  When the progress tracking feature is selected, aligners are shipped to the dental professional after every nine
stages.

Retention.    In addition to our traditional single retainer product, we offer
Vivera retainers, where we deliver a new replacement retainer to orthodontic patients every three months for one year.  Vivera retainers are produced using the same proprietary technology and material as the Invisalign aligners, and offer
an effective, aesthetic retention solution for both Invisalign and non-Invisalign patients.







Training, Ancillary and Other.    The remaining net revenues are
generated by training fees and sales of ancillary products, such as cleaning material and adjusting tools used by dental professionals during the course of treatment.

Proprietary software mentioned in this Annual Report on Form 10-K such as ClinCheck software and the Invisalign Doctor Site are included as part of the Invisalign system and are not sold separately
nor do they contribute as individual items of revenue.

Benefits of Invisalign

We believe that Invisalign provides benefits to dental professionals and patients that have the potential to establish Invisalign as the
preferred alternative to traditional braces.

Benefits to the dental professional



•Ability to visualize the treatment plan and treatment options.    The ClinCheck software enables dental professionals to
preview and modify the intended outcome of treatment in an interactive three-dimensional computer model.  The ClinCheck treatment plan allows dental professionals to analyze multiple treatment alternatives before selecting the course of
action they feel is most appropriate for the patient.



•Expanded patient base.We believe that Invisalign has the potential to transform the practice of
orthodontics.  Currently, approximately 6.8 million people annually elect treatment by orthodontists worldwide, of which approximately 2.6 million have mild to moderate malocclusion and are applicable to Invisalign—our
served market.  As of December 31, 2010, our share of the 2.6 million patients in our served market is approximately 6.6%.  Our market research indicates that the vast majority of adults with malocclusion who desire
treatment do not elect traditional treatment because of its many limitations.  We believe that since Invisalign addresses the primary limitations of braces, adults, who are particularly sensitive to aesthetic limitations of traditional
treatment, will be more likely to seek treatment.  We therefore believe that Invisalign will allow dental professionals to attract patients who would not otherwise seek orthodontic treatment.  In addition, as the primary care
provider, GPs have access to a greater number of patients than orthodontists and possess a unique opportunity to introduce Invisalign and expand their practice and patient base.



•Practice productivity.We believe that as dental professionals move to a higher volume of Invisalign patients, they will
be able to better leverage their existing resources, including staff time and office space resulting in an increase in daily patient appointments and practice productivity.

Benefits to the Patient



•Excellent aesthetics.Aligners are nearly invisible when worn, significantly reducing the aesthetic concerns associated
with traditional braces.



•Comfort.    By replacing the six-week adjustment cycle of traditional braces with two-week stages, aligners move teeth more
gently.  Also, aligners are thin, smooth and low in profile.  As a result, aligners are more comfortable and less irritating than traditional braces.



•Improved oral hygiene.Patients can remove aligners for tasks that are difficult with traditional braces, such as eating,
brushing and flossing.  We believe this feature has the potential to reduce enamel decalcification, tooth decay, and periodontal damage during treatment, which may result from traditional fixed braces.



•Potentially reduced root resorption.Aligners control force by distributing it broadly over the exposed surfaces of the
teeth.  We believe that controlling force has the potential to reduce the incidence of root resorption, which is the breakdown or destruction of root structure that can occur during orthodontic treatment.







•Reduced incidence of emergencies.Typically, a lost or broken aligner is simply replaced with the next aligner in the
treatment series, minimizing inconvenience to both the patient and the dental professional.

We believe that
these benefits will prove attractive to people who currently do not seek treatment because of the limitations of traditional braces or as an alternative, more aesthetic treatment option for teenagers.

Limitations of Invisalign

Our Target Market and Patient Base

Our market research indicates that the majority of adults with malocclusion who desire treatment forgo treatment rather than elect traditional treatment due to its many limitations.  We believe
that since Invisalign addresses the primary limitations of braces, adults, who are particularly sensitive to aesthetic limitations of traditional treatment, will be more likely to seek treatment and therefore represent our most immediate market
expansion opportunity.  With the launch of Invisalign Teen in July 2008, we now offer a product designed to meet the needs of the non-adult comprehensive, or younger teen, treatment market.  Invisalign Teen makes our treatment
more applicable to an orthodontist’s patient base, which we believe will provide us the opportunity to increase our penetration into and our share of the teen treatment market.  In addition, many parents also elect traditional
treatment for their children due to limited awareness of Invisalign applicability for teenager use.  Our goals are to extend our leadership in clear aligner therapy with adults, increase awareness and consumer demand with moms and teens,
and to continue expansion of the clear aligner category overall.  By communicating the benefits of Invisalign to both dental professionals and consumers—adults, parents and teens—we intend to increase the number of patients who
seek treatment using Invisalign.

Approximately 6.8 million people annually elect treatment by orthodontists worldwide of
which approximately 2.6 million have mild to moderate malocclusion and are applicable to Invisalign—our served market.  Twenty-five percent of these patients, or approximately 614 thousand have mature dentition (adults and
older teens), with fully-erupted second molars and substantially completed jaw growth.  Seventy-five percent, or approximately 2.0 million, have erupting dentition (non-adult comprehensive, or younger teens), with partially-erupted
second molars, cuspid and second bicuspid teeth.  As of December 31, 2010, our share of the 2.6 million patients in our served market is approximately 6.6%.

Published market data for GPs providing treatment for malocclusion is limited, however, as the primary care provider, GPs have access to a greater number of patients than orthodontists and
possess a unique opportunity to introduce Invisalign and expand their practice and patient base.  We believe GPs represent a significant market expansion opportunity.







As of December 31, 2010, approximately 1.4 million patients cumulatively worldwide
have started treatment using Invisalign.  The Invisalign system is sold in North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Japan.  International sales accounted for approximately 25%, 24%, and 21% of our net revenues in
2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.  A geographic breakdown of our net revenues is summarized inNote 17 “Segments and Geographical Information” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  We
operate as one reportable segment—the design, development, manufacturing and marketing of Invisalign.  Additionally, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total net revenues in 2010, 2009, and 2008.

Business Strategy

Our goal is to establish Invisalign as the standard method for treating malocclusion ultimately driving increased product adoption by dental professionals by focusing on the following key strategic
initiatives:



1.Continue to accelerate product and clinical innovation, including new products with significant evolution in features and functionality, in order to extend clinical
applicability and enhance effectiveness, treat more patients and achieve better outcomes;



2.Enhance the customer experience for our doctors and for their staff through evolution in customer facing systems and programs making it easier and more efficient to
adopt Invisalign into their practice and increase utilization;



3.Increase the effectiveness of consumer demand creation and extend Invisalign brand awareness; and



4.Continue to drive International growth, principally in Europe, while opening up additional new markets around the world, such as China.

Product innovation and clinical effectiveness

On January 10, 2011, we announced an agreement to jointly develop software applications that will run on Cadent iTero™ and iOC™ scanners for use in Invisalign treatment.  Cadent
Inc. (“Cadent”) is a manufacturer of 3D digital scanning solutions for orthodontics and dentistry.  The agreement embodies our commitment to innovation and our desire to improve the overall customer experience for Invisalign
providers.  The new applications will optimize case assessment and planning for Invisalign treatment, and bring valuable digital tools chair-side for Invisalign providers who use Cadent scanners.  A series of applications will be
developed over the next couple of years, and we expect the first application to be available by the end of 2011.  Before we can bring these new applications to market, we need to ensure interoperability with Cadent scanners for use in
Invisalign treatment.  We have established very robust standards for scan quality and accuracy to ensure a specific scanning technology can successfully replace PVS impressions for Invisalign treatment.  We are now in final beta
tests to validate the Cadent systems, and expect to announce interoperability with Cadent scanners in the second quarter of 2011.







We believe continuing to introduce new products and product features will keep us at the
forefront of the market and increase adoption and frequency of use (what we call utilization or same practice sales) of Invisalign, however, we expect that adoption of these new products will increase gradually over a number of
years.  During 2011, we plan to continue our efforts to demonstrate clinical efficacy and work towards a long term goal of becoming the orthodontic treatment of choice.

Enhancing the customer experience and increasing adoption.We are committed to enhancing the customer
experience through the evolution of our customer facing systems and programs making it easier and more efficient for our customers to adopt Invisalign into their practice and increase utilization.  Specifically, we provide robust clinical
education resources and training programs, clinical and field sales customer support, assistance with practice development, and incentive programs to encourage our customers integrate Invisalign into their practice.



•Clinical Education and Training.Ensuring that trained doctors are confident in using the Invisalign system is a key
driver toward our ultimate goal of increasing product adoption.  We continuously update our training programs to address the needs of our customers.  For instance, we developed Ask-the-Expert webinars, a series of interactive
web/phone conferences led by experienced Invisalign providers to educate our customers about new products or features or to discuss relevant clinical topics.  In addition, we focus on Invisalign Assist as part of our initial training
program, Clear Essentials I, since we believe Invisalign Assist is the right product for newly trained GPs.  We anticipate that by using Invisalign Assist, newly trained GPs will exit this initial training program with increased
confidence in prescribing Invisalign treatment.  Our new doctor training in North America is evolving to identify and focus on practices that are interested in gaining the skills and experience necessary to be successful with
Invisalign.

We have also incorporated the Invisalign technique into the curriculum of 41 university
programs.  By educating dental students and orthodontic residents on the benefits of the Invisalign technique, we believe they will be more likely to use this technology in their future practices and offer Invisalign as a treatment
option.  Other resources that we offer our doctors include the Aligntech Institute (www.aligntechinstitute.com), which is an interactive website that provides clinical education and practice development training.  These clinical
education and practice development training opportunities include instructor-led training classes, seminars and workshops, conference calls, web-based videos, case studies, blogs and other clinical resources.  Many of these courses and
resources are eligible for continuing education (CE) credits.  Additionally, our Invisalign Doctor Site provides our trained doctors and their staff access to thousands of Invisalign cases and best practices as well as up-to-date support
information, programs and marketing materials for continuous support and information access.



•Customer Support and Practice Development.    Once a doctor is trained, we provide additional services to help our customers
increase their confidence in using the Invisalign system through clinical support and continuing education, as well as improving their practice management skills.  At our Costa Rica facility, we have over 700 treatment technicians and
customer support staff available to help our customers with their cases and treatment plans.  Our sales representatives provide additional support and practice development tools such as staff training, ClinCheck software tips and tools,
practice marketing guides and marketing materials, as well as any assistance with the Invisalign system process.



•Customer Incentive Programs.    We offer our customers varying product promotional discounts and incentive programs as a
means to improve the customer experience and increase utilization.  Our largest North American program, the Advantage Rebate Program, allows eligible orthodontist and GPs to earn volume rebates and marketing benefits for exceeding
quarterly case shipment thresholds and participating in continuing education.  Additional tiered benefits range from practice development materials, marketing consulting, and access to dedicated clinical technicians.  For 2011,
we added an additional Super Elite tier to include benefits such as free Invisalign Summit attendance and an Invisalign brand URL license.  We believe that by incenting our doctors to enter the Advantage Rebate







Program and increase their tier status, doctors can gain increased confidence in treating with Invisalign.  The program also gives doctors access to marketing materials and programs to
better integrate Invisalign into their practice and help develop a stronger partnership with us and increase overall adoption.  From time to time, we also offer various product promotions as a means to encourage trial usage of products,
including pricing discounts to newly trained doctors and following the introduction of new products.  The largest program for International, the Case Pack program, rewards twelve month purchase commitments made by Invisalign practitioners
with case discounts commensurate with commitment tier and preferred placement in Doctor Locator on the Invisalign website.

Increasing the effectiveness of our consumer demand creation and extending Invisalign brand awareness.

Growth of international markets

In October, we announced that we had received regulatory approval from the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) to market
and sell the Invisalign system as a Class II medical device for the treatment of malocclusion.  We received our License of Medical Device Operation Enterprise (Enterprise License) from the







Shanghai Food and Drug Administration, which allows us to distribute Invisalign in China.  We expect to begin commercial availability of Invisalign in the second half of
2011.  While we do not expect meaningful revenue from China for several years, our focused strategy to launch Invisalign in key major cities of China provides us a large growth opportunity long term.

Additionally, although the vast majority of our international revenues are from direct sales, approximately 10% of our international
sales are through distributors covering less strategic international markets, specifically Asia Pacific, Latin America, and smaller country markets in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  With these efforts, we expect our international
revenues to continue to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of total net revenues in the foreseeable future.

Manufacturing

To produce our highly customized, highly precise, medical quality products in volume, we have developed a number of proprietary processes and technologies.  These technologies include complex
software solutions, CT scanning, stereolithography and automated aligner fabrication.

Manufacturing administration is located
in San Jose, California; however, our digital planning and manufacturing facilities are located outside of the U.S.  in San Jose, Costa Rica and Juarez, Mexico.  As of December 31, 2010, our digital planning, manufacturing
and operations staff in the U.S., Costa Rica and Mexico consisted of 1,374 people.  At our facility in Costa Rica, technicians use a sophisticated, internally developed computer-modeling program to prepare digital treatment
plans.  Upon acceptance of the ClinCheck treatment plan by the dental professional, these plans are then transmitted electronically to Juarez, Mexico.  The ClinCheck treatment plan and supporting digital files are used to
manufacture SLA (stereolithography) aligner molds.  Our order acquisition operations, the manufacturing of aligner molds and aligners, as well as the packaging and shipment of aligners, are conducted in our facility in Juarez,
Mexico.  Information regarding risks associated with our manufacturing process and foreign operations may be found inItem 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.”

We rely on two vendors who are each the sole source of the polymer and resin used in our manufacturing process.  In the event
that either of these vendors becomes unable for any reason to supply us with their respective products, we would experience a manufacturing disruption while we qualify and obtain an alternate source.

Throughput Management

Because we manufacture each case on a build-to-order basis, we must conservatively build manufacturing capacity for anticipated demand.  To increase throughput, we must improve the efficiency
and increase the scale of our manufacturing processes.

In order to increase the efficiency of our manufacturing processes, we
focus our efforts on software development and the improvement of rate-limiting processes, or bottlenecks.  We continue to upgrade our proprietary, three-dimensional treatment planning software to enhance computer analysis of treatment data
and to reduce time spent on manual and judgmental tasks for each case, thereby increasing the efficiency of our technicians in Costa Rica.  We are also continuing the development of automated systems for the fabrication and packaging of
aligners manufactured in Juarez, Mexico.  In order to meet the demands from expected volumes and continued international expansion, we expect that we will continue to invest in capital equipment and intend to add a new aligner fabrication
facility outside of North America by the end of 2011.

Quality Assurance

Align’s quality system is required to be in compliance with the Quality System regulations enforced by the Food and Drug
Administration (“FDA”), and similar regulations enforced by other worldwide regulatory







Since we custom manufacture our
aligners on a build-to-order basis, we do not offer refunds on our products.  Because each ClinCheck treatment plan and each aligner is unique, we inspect the product at various points during the manufacturing process, to ensure that the
product meets our customers’ expectations.  Aligners are subject to the Invisalign product warranty, which covers defects in materials and workmanship.  Our materials and workmanship warranty is in force until the Invisalign
case is completed.  In the event aligners fall within the scope of the Invisalign product warranty, we will replace the aligners at our expense.  Our warranty is contingent upon proper use of the aligners for the purposes for
which they are intended.  If a patient chooses not to wear the aligners, and as a result, requests additional Invisalign treatment, the dental professional pays the additional expense of the replacement aligners.  Warranty
treatment requires that the dental professional submit new impressions of the patient’s dentition to us.  We use the impressions to create a new ClinCheck treatment plan for the dental professional to approve, from which a successive
series of aligners will be produced that will allow the patient to finish treatment.

The Invisalign product warranty does not
provide any assurances regarding the outcome of treatment using Invisalign.  Actual treatment results may deviate significantly from the approved ClinCheck treatment plan.  Deviations not covered under warranty have typically
been the result of unpredictable biological factors, such as variations in bone density or tooth topography and abnormal jaw growth.

Sales and Marketing

We market Invisalign by communicating the
benefits of the Invisalign system to dental professionals through our training programs, online and traditional mail campaigns, trade shows, trade journals and print, and to consumers through online and traditional advertising, digital and social
networking, and event marketing.  Based on our experience with marketing and commercial sales, we believe that making consumers aware of Invisalign as a treatment alternative generates significant demand for Invisalign.

Professional Marketing

We provide training, marketing and clinical support to orthodontists and GPs throughout North America and internationally.  As of December 31, 2010, there are approximately 43,000
active Invisalign providers worldwide.

As of December 31, 2010 our North American sales organization consisted of 171
people, of which, 134 were quota carrying sales representatives and 37 were regional sales managers and administration.







Internationally, we had 54 people engaged in sales and sales support as of December 31, 2010.  We continually evaluate cost effective ways to support our customers in smaller
markets.  For instance, we use distributors for the sale of our products in part of the Asia Pacific, Latin American regions, and smaller country markets in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  We will consider selling through a
distributor in other smaller markets as well as consider expanding directly into additional countries on a case-by-case basis.

Invisalign relies on the same orthodontic principles that apply to traditional treatment.  Our sales teams conduct training
primarily in a workshop format.  The key topics covered in training include Invisalign applicability, instructions on filling out the Invisalign treatment form and submitting required records, clinical tips and techniques, guidance on
pricing and instructions on interacting with our ClinCheck software and the many other features of the Invisalign Doctor Site.

After doctors complete their training, sales representatives may follow up with the dental professional to ensure that their staff is
prepared to handle Invisalign cases.  These practice development activities may include assisting the dental professional in taking dental impressions, treatment planning processes and familiarizing them with our dental online portals and
tools.  Sales representatives may also provide practice-building assistance, including helping the dental professional to market Invisalign to prospective patients through direct mail or other forms of media.  Many dental
professionals have commenced promotional activity in their local region with our assistance.

Consumer Marketing

Our experience indicates that prospective patients seek information from these primary sources:



•an orthodontist;



•a GP;



•our websites, which can be accessed at eitherwww.invisalign.com,www.invisalignteen.com,www.aligntech.com, orwww.aligntechinstitute.com;



•traditional and digital advertising, social media, print and public relations and;



•word of mouth from current and former Invisalign patients.

Research and Development

Our research and development effort is
focused on extending the range of clinical effectiveness and applicability of Invisalign, enhancing the software used in the virtual clinical design, manufacturing process and enhancing our Invisalign treatment options, including the development of
distinct product platforms that meet the specific needs of GPs and orthodontists such as Invisalign Assist and Invisalign Teen.  Our research and development expenses were $26.0 million for 2010, $22.3 million for 2009, and
$26.2 million for 2008.

In an effort to demonstrate Invisalign’s broad treatment capabilities, various clinical
case studies and articles have been published that highlight the applicability of Invisalign to malocclusion cases, including those of severe complexity.  We are also undertaking post-marketing studies and making additional technological
improvements to the product and manufacturing process.  As mentioned in our Business Strategy, we are making investments in the development of new products and enhancements of existing products to meet the needs of our customers and
increase adoption and utilization of Invisalign such as the agreement to jointly develop software applications with Cadent.

Intellectual Property

We believe our intellectual property position represents a substantial business advantage.  As of December 31, 2010, we had 152 issued U.S. patents, 136 pending U.S. patent applications,
and 75 foreign issued patents, as well as 128 pending foreign patent applications.  SeeItem 3 “Legal Proceedings” for a discussion on Reexamination Proceedings pending with the United States Patent and Trademark
Office.







We continue to pursue further intellectual property protection through U.S. and foreign
patent applications and non-disclosure agreements.  We also seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws.  We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a
result of any patent application or that patents that have been issued to us or that may be issued in the future will be found to be valid and enforceable and sufficient to protect our technology or products.  Our intellectual property
rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged.  In addition, the laws of various foreign countries where Invisalign is distributed do not protect our intellectual property rights to
the same extent as U.S. laws.  Our inability to protect our proprietary information could harm our business.  Information regarding risks associated with failing to protect our proprietary technology and our intellectual property
rights may be found inItem 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.”

Seasonal Fluctuations

Seasonal fluctuations in the number of doctors in their offices and available to take appointments have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business.  Specifically, our customers
often take vacation or are on holiday during the summer months and therefore tend to start fewer cases, particularly in Europe.  In addition, summer is typically the busiest season for orthodontists with practices that have a high
percentage of adolescent and teenage patients as many parents want to get their teens started in treatment before the start of the school year.  As a result, adult appointments, including adult Invisalign patient starts, are often pushed
further into late summer or early fall.  With the availability of Invisalign Teen combined with our marketing efforts aimed at teens and parents, we have been actively competing for a share of teen patient starts.  We believe
that the increasing percentage of teenaged patients using Invisalign helped moderate the downward trend we would otherwise see for our North American orthodontic customers during the summer months.  These seasonal trends have caused and
will likely continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates.

Backlog

Due to the nature of our business, we maintain relatively
low levels of backlog.  The period from which treatment data (or “a case”) is received until the acceptance of the digital ClinCheck treatment plan is dependent on the dental professional’s discretion to modify, accept or
cancel the treatment plan.  Therefore, we consider the case a firm order to manufacture aligners once the dental professional has approved the ClinCheck treatment plan.  Our backlog consists of ClinCheck treatment plans that have
been accepted but not yet shipped.  Because aligners are shipped shortly after the ClinCheck treatment plan has been accepted, we believe that backlog is not a good indicator of future sales.  Our quarterly revenues can be
impacted by the timing of the ClinCheck treatment plan acceptances and our ability to ship those cases in the same quarter.

Competition

We compete for the attention of dental professionals with manufacturers of traditional orthodontic appliances (or wires and brackets), which include 3M’s Unitek, Danaher Corporation’s Sybron
Dental Specialties, and Dentsply International, Inc.  We also compete directly with established companies that manufacture and distribute products that are similar in use to Invisalign, including the products manufactured and
distributed by Ormco Orthodontics, a division of Sybron Dental Specialties (a division of Danaher Corporation) and Dentsply GAC International (a division of Dentsply International, Inc.).  In the future, we may face further competition
from early stage and more mature companies who enter our target markets to manufacture and distribute products that are similar in use to Invisalign.  Information regarding risks associated with increased competition may be found inItem 1Aof this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.”

We believe that in
addition to price, the principal competitive factors in the market for orthodontic appliances include the following:



•aesthetic appeal of the treatment method;







•effectiveness of treatment;



•customer support;



•software features;



•customer online interface;



•unique engineering;



•comfort associated with the treatment method;



•oral hygiene;



•ease of use; and



•dental professionals’ chair time.

We believe that Invisalign compares favorably with our competitors’ products with respect to each of these factors.

Government Regulation

FDA’s Quality System Regulation for
Medical Devices.    The Invisalign system is classified as a Class II medical device.  In 1998, we received pre-market clearance from the FDA pursuant to the 510(k) pre-market notification procedure, allowing
us to market the product in the U.S.  The Invisalign system was originally cleared for use by the FDA in patients with permanent teeth and contraindicated the device for patients presenting with mixed dentition, severe overbite, severe
overjet, tooth malocclusion requiring surgical correction, adolescent patients with a skeletally narrow jaw, and adult patients with dental prosthetics/implants.  In 2008, the FDA cleared new labeling for the Invisalign system, by removing
the permanent dentition limitation from the indications for use.  In addition, certain conditions previously listed as contraindications are now listed as precautions.  We are subject to routine inspections by the FDA and state
agencies to determine compliance with Quality System requirements.  We are registered with the State of California as a medical device manufacturer.

If the FDA determines that we failed to comply with the applicable FDA regulations, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions against us, ranging from a public Warning Letter to more severe
sanctions, including but not limited to financial penalties, withdrawal of our right to market our products and criminal prosecution.

Health Canada’s Medical Device Regulations.    In Canada, we are required to comply with Health Canada’s Medical Device Regulations.  Our products are
registered with Health Canada.  We believe we are in compliance with their regulations and have been granted clearance to market our products in Canada.

European Union’s MDD Requirements & ISO 13485:2003.    In Europe, Invisalign is regulated as a custom device and as such, we follow the requirements of the
Medical Device Directives.  We are ISO 13485:2003 certified, which facilitates commercialization of Invisalign outside the United States and especially in Europe.

China’s FDA Regulations and Enterprise License.    In October 2010, we received regulatory approval from
the Chinese State Food and Drug Administration (SFDA) to market and sell the Invisalign system as a Class II medical device for the treatment of malocclusion.  We also received its License of Medical Device Operation Enterprise (Enterprise
License) from the Shanghai Food and Drug Administration, which allows us to distribute Invisalign in China.

Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996.    Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, Congress mandated a package of interlocking administrative simplification rules to
establish standards and requirements for electronic transmission of certain health







information.  Confidentiality and security of patient records and the circumstances under which these records may be released by healthcare professionals are subject to substantial
regulations under the HIPAA Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information, referred to as the Privacy Standard, and the Security Standard, and other state laws and regulations.  The Privacy Standard governs both the
disclosure and the use of confidential patient medical information, and the Security Standard governs the technical, physical, and administrative safe guards used to protect the unauthorized release or disclosure of patient
information.  Although compliance is the responsibility of the hospital, physician or other healthcare provider, we understand the importance to our customers and their patients of maintaining the confidentiality of patient
information.  Accordingly, we have designed our product and service offerings to be consistent with the requirements of the Privacy and Security standards under HIPAA and applicable corresponding state laws and
regulations.  Maintaining systems that are consistent with these laws and regulations is costly and could require complex changes in the way we do business or provide services to our patients.  Additionally, our success may be
dependent on the success of healthcare participants in dealing with HIPAA requirements.

Other Federal and State
Laws

Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we had 2,097 employees, including 1,374 in manufacturing and operations, 372 in sales and marketing, 150 in research and development and 201 in general and administrative
functions.  We had 435 employees in North America, 797 employees in Costa Rica, 208 employees in Europe, 645 employees in Mexico, and 12 employees in Japan.

Available Information

Our website is located atwww.aligntech.com, and our investor relations website is located athttp://investor.aligntech.com.  The information on or accessible through our websites is not part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.  Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statement on Schedule 14A for our annual stockholders’ meeting and amendments to such reports
are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with the SEC.  Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is







located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling
the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings atwww.sec.gov.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 24, 2011:



NameAgePositionThomas M. Prescott55President and Chief Executive OfficerKenneth B. Arola55Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial OfficerDana C. Cambra53Vice President, Research & Development and Information TechnologyDan S. Ellis59Vice President, North American SalesRoger E. George45Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs General CounselLen M. Hedge53Senior Vice President, Business OperationsSheila Tan47Vice President, Marketing and Chief Marketing OfficerRichard Twomey46Vice President, InternationalEmory M. Wright41Vice President, Operations

Thomas M.
Prescotthas served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our Board of Directors since March 2002.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Prescott was President and Chief Executive Officer of Cardiac
Pathways, Inc., a publicly-traded medical device company, from May 1999 until its acquisition by Boston Scientific in August 2001.  Mr. Prescott then worked as a consultant for Boston Scientific Corporation until January
2002.  Prior to working at Cardiac Pathways, Mr. Prescott held various sales, general management and executive roles at Nellcor Puritan Bennett, Inc. from April 1994 to May 1999.

Kenneth B. Arolahas served as our Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer since December 2007.  He joined
us as Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller in August 2005.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Arola served for fourteen years at Adaptec, Inc, an electronic data storage equipment company, where he held various senior finance
management positions, most recently as Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller.  His experience also includes positions of increasing responsibility in various financial roles at Varian Associates and Cooper Labs.

Dana C. Cambraour Vice President, Research & Development and Information Technology has been with Align since June
2008.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Cambra served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development for Pharsight Corporation, a provider of simulation and modeling software for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies from March 2007
to June 2008.  Prior to his role at Pharsight, Mr. Cambra was Vice President, Engineering at Stentor Inc., a medical image and information management software provider from October 2002 to February 2006.  Earlier roles
included executive engineering and operations positions at Visto Corporation and iScribe, Inc. Mr. Cambra also spent several years in positions of increasing responsibility at Acuson Corporation, now a Siemens Company.

Dan S. Ellishas served as our Vice President, North American Sales since June 2005.  Prior to joining us,
Mr. Ellis was Vice President, Sales for privately-held BARRx Medical, a medical device company, from September 2004 to June 2005.  From June 1999 to May 2004, Mr. Ellis was at Fusion Medical Technologies, a division of
Baxter Healthcare, most recently as Vice President, BioSurgery US. From January 1998 to June 1999, Mr. Ellis served as Vice President, Sales & Marketing for Cardiac Pathways, Inc. Earlier in his career, Mr. Ellis held
national sales positions of increasing scope and responsibility at Fusion Medical Technologies and Eli Lilly MDD/Guidant Corporation.

Roger E. Georgehas served as our Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 2002.  Prior to joining us, Mr. George was the Chief
Financial Officer, Vice







President of Finance and Legal Affairs and General Counsel of SkyStream Networks, a privately held broadband and broadcast network equipment company.  Prior to SkyStream,
Mr. George was a partner at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, P.C. in Palo Alto, California.

Len M.
Hedgehas served as our Senior Vice President, Business Operations since December 2007.  He joined us as our Director of Manufacturing in January 1999 and was our Vice President, of Operations from March 2002 to December
2007.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Hedge served as Vice President of Operations for Plynetics Express Corporation, a rapid-prototyping and stereolithography services supplier, from December 1996 to December
1998.  From October 1991 to December 1996, Mr. Hedge worked at Beckman Instruments Corporation as Manager for Prototype Manufacturing and Process Development.

Sheila Tanwas appointed Vice President, Marketing and Chief Marketing Officer in March
2009.  Ms. Tan joined us in September 2008 as Vice President of Product Innovation and Marketing Strategy.  Prior to joining us, Ms. Tan was Vice President, Marketing for Moka5, Inc., a provider of virtual desktop
technology, fromAugust2007 to July 2008.  She served as Vice President Marketing of Presto Services Inc., a digital-delivery service that enables families and friends to stay in touch via email, without the need for a
computer or Internet connection, from June 2006 to August 2007.  Prior to that, Ms. Tan was Senior Director of Marketing, QuickBooks at Intuit from 2000 to 2005.  From 1995 to 2000, Ms. Tan held marketing positions of
increasing scope and responsibility at The Procter & Gamble Company and its subsidiaries.

Richard
Twomeyhas served as our Vice President, International since May 2010.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Twomey spent the past 13 years in senior management positions within divisions of Johnson & Johnson, having served most
recently as president of DePuy, International Ltd., part of the DePuy Orthopaedics, a global leader in the provision of surgical implants for orthopaedic applications, as well as diversified interests in spinal, sports medicine and neurology
sectors.  Mr. Twomey also served as managing director and director of marketing for Johnson & Johnson Bone Tissue Management Group.  Prior to Johnson & Johnson, Mr. Twomey held various sales and
marketing positions at Biomet Ltd, Howmedica International Ltd., and Stafford Millar.

Emory M. Wrighthas served as
our Vice President, Operations since December 2007.  He has been with us since March 2000, predominantly in manufacturing and operations roles.  Previously, Mr. Wright served as Vice President, Manufacturing and most
recently was General Manager of New Product Development.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Wright was Senior Manufacturing Manager at Metrika, Inc. a medical device manufacturer, from May 1999 to March 2000.  From July
1994 to May 1999, Mr. Wright served as Manager of Manufacturing and Process Development for Metra Biosystems Inc.







