ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our Company

Align Technology, Inc (“We”, “Our”, “Align”) designs, manufactures and markets a system of clear aligner therapy, intra-oral scanners and CAD/CAM (computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacturing) digital services used in dentistry, orthodontics, and dental records storage.  Align Technology was founded in March 1997 and incorporated in Delaware in April 1997.  Our headquarters are located at 2560 Orchard Parkway, San Jose, California 95131, and our telephone number is 408-470-1000.  Our international headquarters are located in Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

We have two operating segments: (1) Clear Aligner, known as the Invisalign system; and (2) Scanners and CAD/CAM Services ("SCCS"), known as the iTero intra-oral scanner and OrthoCAD services.  For the year ended December 31, 2012, Clear Aligner revenues represent approximately 92 percent of worldwide revenue, while Scanners and CAD/CAM Services represent the remaining 8 percent of worldwide revenues.  We distribute the vast majority of our products directly to our customers: orthodontists and general practitioner dentists, or ("GPs") sell as to restorative dentists, including prosthodontists, periodontists, and oral surgeons.

We received the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) clearance to market the Invisalign system in 1998.  The Invisalign system is regulated by the FDA as a Class II medical device.  In order to provide Invisalign treatment to their patients, orthodontists and GPs must initially complete an Invisalign training course.  The Invisalign system is sold in North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Japan.  We use a distributor model for the sale of our products in non-core country markets in the Asia Pacific, Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Latin America regions.

On April 29, 2011, we acquired Cadent Holdings, Inc.  (“Cadent”), a leading provider of 3D digital scanning solutions for orthodontics and dentistry.   Since this acquisition, we  manufacture the iTero  digital intra-oral scanner and provide CAD/CAM restorative models for use by dental professionals and/or labs and services for orthodontic digital procedures.  Scanners and CAD/CAM Services are sold through our direct sales force and distribution partners.

Clear Aligner Segment

Malocclusion and Traditional Orthodontic Treatment

Malocclusion, or the misalignment of teeth, is one of the most prevalent clinical dental conditions, affecting nearly a billion people, or approximately 50 to 75% of the population of major developed countries.   Approximately 6.8 million people annually elect treatment by orthodontists worldwide, of which approximately 2.6 million have mild to moderate malocclusion and are applicable to Invisalign treatment—our served market.

In the United States (“U.S.”), orthodontists and GPs treat malocclusion primarily with metal arch wires and brackets, referred to as braces, and augment braces with elastics, metal bands, headgear and other ancillary devices as needed.  Options available to attempt to improve treatment aesthetics include using ceramic, tooth-colored brackets or bonding brackets on the inside, or lingual surface, of the patient’s teeth.  The average treatment takes approximately 12 to 24 months to complete and requires several hours of direct dental professional involvement, known in the industry as “chair time,” including the initial










diagnosis, creation of an appropriate treatment plan and bonding of the brackets to the patient’s teeth and attachment of arch wires to the brackets.  Subsequent visits involve tightening or otherwise adjusting the braces approximately every six weeks until the final visit when the dental professional removes each bracket and residual bonding agent from the patient’s teeth.  Upon completion of the treatment, the dental professional may, at his or her discretion, have the patient use a retainer.

The Invisalign System

The Invisalign system is a proprietary method for treating malocclusion based on a series of doctor-prescribed, custom manufactured, clear plastic removable orthodontic aligners.  The Invisalign system offers a range of treatment options, specialized services, and proprietary software for treatment visualization and is comprised of the following phases:

Orthodontic diagnosis and transmission of treatment data to us.    The dental professional prepares and sends us a patient’s treatment data package which consists of a prescription form, a polyvinyl-siloxane, or PVS impression of the relevant dental arches, photographs of the patient and, at the dental professional’s election, x-rays of the patient’s dentition.  The dental professional can also submit an intra-oral scan or “digital impression” through an iTero intra-oral scanner instead of a physical PVS impression.

Preparation of 3D computer models of the patient’s initial malocclusion.    Upon receipt, we use the treatment data to construct digital models of the patient’s dentition.  Using computed tomography, known as CT scanning, we scan the PVS impression to develop a digital, three-dimensional computer model of the patient’s current dentition.  In cases where the dental professional submits a digital impression, this step in the process is eliminated.

Preparation of computer-simulated treatment and viewing of treatment using ClinCheck software. We transform this initial digital model into a proposed custom, three-dimensional treatment plan, called a ClinCheck treatment plan.  The ClinCheck plan simulates appropriate tooth movement broken down into a series of two-week increments, and details timing and placement of any attachments that will be used during treatment.   Attachments are tooth-colored “buttons” that are sometimes used to increase the biomechanical force on a specific tooth or teeth in order to effect the desired movement.  The patient’s ClinCheck treatment plan is then made available to the prescribing dental professional via the Invisalign Doctor Site which enables the dental professional to project tooth movement with a level of accuracy not previously possible with metal arch wires and brackets.  By reviewing and amending the treatment simulation, the dental professional retains control over the treatment plan.

Construction of molds corresponding to each step of treatment. Upon the dental professional’s approval of the ClinCheck treatment plan, we use the data underlying the simulation, in conjunction with stereolithography technology, to construct a series of molds depicting the future position of the patient’s teeth.  Each mold is a replica of the patient’s teeth at each two-week stage of the simulated course of treatment.

Manufacture of aligners and shipment to the dental professional. From these molds, aligners are fabricated by pressure-forming polymeric sheets over each mold.  Aligners are thin, clear plastic, removable dental appliances that are custom manufactured in a series to correspond to each two-week stage of the ClinCheck animation.  Aligners are generally worn for consecutive two-week periods which correspond to the approved ClinCheck treatment plan.  After two weeks of use, the patient replaces them with the next pair in the series, advancing tooth movement with each aligner stage.  Throughout treatment, the doctor may place attachments or use other auxiliaries to achieve desired tooth movements, per the doctor’s original prescription and resulting ClinCheck treatment plan.

Retention.    Upon completion of the treatment, the patient may be prescribed our single clear retainer product or our Vivera retainer product.

Scanners and CAD/CAM Services Segment

Although advancements have been made in materials used for taking dental impressions since their introduction one hundred years ago, the overall impression process has remained relatively unchanged.   Shortcomings such as voids, pulls, and the general margin for error have remained inherent in conventional impressions, and subsequent retakes create unnecessary cost increase for a clinical practice.  Intra-oral scanning is an emerging technology that we believe will have substantial impact on the future of dentistry.  By enabling the dental practitioner to create a 3D image of the patient’s teeth using a handheld intra-oral scanner inside the mouth, intra-oral scanning is more efficient and precise and more comfortable for patients, compared to the mess, discomfort, and subjective nature of taking physical impressions.  The digital model created with an intra-oral scanner is more accurate than a physical impression and substantially reduces the rate of restoration “remakes” so patients are recalled less often and the appointment time for the restoration is shorter because of fewer adjustments, which results in greater overall patient satisfaction.










As the only intra-oral scanner system in the market based on parallel confocal imaging, the iTero and iOC intra-oral scanners utilize laser and optical scanning to capture the contours of the patient’s dentition, gingival structures and the bite.  The intra-oral scanners capture 100,000 points of laser light in perfect focus without the use of powder to coat the teeth, allowing for contact of the wand and tooth.  The benefit of contact scanning for the clinician is it eliminates the challenge of hovering over the teeth at a specific distance which can be complicated.  For the patient, they enjoy a more comfortable powder free experience which allows the clinician to provide a very comfortable patient centric experience.  Within minutes, an accurate 3D digital impression can be viewed on the screen.  The 3D digital model file can be used for various procedures and services including fabrication of physical dental models for use by labs to create restorative units such as veneers, inlays, onlays, crowns, bridges and implant abutments; Invisalign digital impression submission; digital records storage; orthodontic diagnosis and computer aided placement of traditional braces; and orthodontic retainers and appliances.

Both iTero and iOC intra-oral scanners consist of a mobile computer unit, display screen, a control foot pedal and scanning wand to scan and capture a patient’s dentition (full or partial dental arch).  System software features include occlusal map, eraser tool, edge trim tool, real-time modeling and an option to submit scans for Invisalign treatment.  The systems provide doctors and labs with an open choice to export generic digital files of their digital impression to use with other third party dental service providers.  This allows the digital impression to integrate with cone beam CT images for implant and orthodontic treatment planning.  OrthoCAD services are additional services available with our scanners.  In-office training on the system and features is provided after the unit is delivered to the practice.

Our Products and Services

Our revenues are generated from the sale of the following product offerings.



Percentage of Revenues by ProductFiscal Year2012Fiscal Year2011Fiscal Year2010Invisalign Full61%63%68%Invisalign Express/Lite999Invisalign Teen121114Invisalign Assist564Invisalign Non-case*555Scanners**43—CAD/CAM Services**43—Total100%100%100%

_______________________*Non-case revenue includes the retainer business, training revenues, and ancillary offerings under our Clear Aligner product lines**As the acquisition of Cadent closed on April 29, 2011, the fiscal year 2011 percentages for Scanners and CAD/CAM Services only reflect eight months of revenues.

Clear Aligner Products

Invisalign Full. Used for a wide range of malocclusion, Invisalign Full consists of the number of aligners necessary to achieve the doctor’s treatment goals.  For Invisalign Full, aligners are manufactured and then delivered to the dental professionals in a single shipment.  Invisalign Full is sold in the U.S., Canada, and our international regions.

Invisalign Express (10 and 5) and Invisalign Lite/i7.Invisalign Express, Invisalign Lite and Invisalign i7 are lower-cost solutions for less complex orthodontic cases, non-comprehensive treatment relapse cases, or straightening prior to restorative or cosmetic treatments such as veneers.  Invisalign Express 10 and Invisalign Express 5, which are sold in the U.S. and Canada, uses up to 10 and 5 sets of aligners, respectively.  Invisalign Lite and Invisalign i7, sold in our international regions, uses up to 14 and 7 sets of aligners, respectively.  For Invisalign Express/Lite/i7, aligners are manufactured and then delivered to the dental professionals in a single shipment.

Invisalign Teen.Invisalign Teen includes all the features of Invisalign Full, plus additional features that address the orthodontic needs of teenage patients such as eruption compensation and six free single arch replacement aligners.  This product is predominantly marketed to orthodontists who treat the vast majority of malocclusion in teenage patients.  For Invisalign Teen, aligners (other than the replacement aligners) are manufactured and then delivered to the dental professionals in a single shipment.  Invisalign Teen is sold in the U.S., Canada, and our international regions.










Invisalign Assist.Intended for use for anterior alignment and aesthetically-oriented cases Invisalign Assist offers added support to our dental practitioners throughout the treatment process, including progress tracking that allows the dental professional to submit new impressions every nine stages.  When the progress tracking feature is selected, aligners are shipped to the dental professional after every nine stages thereby helping to achieve successful treatment outcomes.  Predominantly marketed to GPs, Invisalign Assist is intended to make it easier to select appropriate cases for their experience level or treatment approach, submit cases more efficiently and manage appointments with suggested tasks.  Invisalign Assist is sold in the U.S. and Canada.

Retention. In addition to a traditional single retainer product, we also offer Vivera retainers, where we deliver four new replacement retainers to orthodontic patients which is intended to deliver one year of retention.  Doctors can prescribe Vivera retainers for their Invisalign and their non-Invisalign patients.

Invisalign non-case revenues. Invisalign non-case revenues represent retainer products discussed above, Invisalign training fees and sales of ancillary products, such as cleaning material and adjusting tools used by dental professionals during the course of treatment.

Feature Enhancements.Beginning in late 2009, we began introducing enhanced features across the Invisalign system.  Referred to as Invisalign 1.5 (launched in September 2009), Invisalign G3 (launched in October 2010) and Invisalign G4 (launched in November of 2011), these feature enhancements are a collection of clinical innovations designed to address some of the most significant treatment challenges doctors encounter. Features include:

•Precision Cuts, which are custom mesial and distal hooks used to provide anchorage for elastics and button cutouts to accommodate buttons bonded to the tooth aimed to help treat patients with Class II and Class III malocclusion; and

•SmartForce features engineered to achieve more predictable tooth movements using custom optimized attachments and Power Ridge.

SmartTrack™Aligner Material.In October 2012, we announced SmartTrack, the next generation of Invisalign clear aligner material. SmartTrack is a proprietary, custom-engineered material that delivers gentle, more constant force considered ideal for orthodontic tooth movements. Conventional aligner materials relax and lose a substantial percent of energy in the initial days of aligner wear, but SmartTrack maintains more constant force over the two weeks that a patient wears the aligners. The flexible SmartTrack material also more precisely conforms to tooth morphology, attachments, and interproximal spaces to improve control of tooth movement throughout treatment. SmartTrack became the new standard aligner material for Invisalign clear aligner products in North America beginning January 21, 2013 and in February 2013 for Europe, and other international markets where we have obtained regulatory approval.

Scanners and CAD/CAM Services Products

Scanners

iTero Scanner. On January 2013, we announced the new iTero scanner system available as a single hardware platform with software options for restorative or orthodontic procedures. Previously, we sold two hardware platforms, the iTero scanner for GPs, prosthodontists, periodontists, and oral surgeons and the iOC scanner for orthodontists.  The new iTero scanner system replaces these two scanner platforms which will no longer be sold after February 2013. The newly redesigned iTero scanner system maintains its innovative powderless technology and features a modern design with enhanced wand optics for a smaller, more ergonomic fit, easy-to-use keyboard design and a larger working surface. Additionally, full color model rendering is available and enables clinicians to show patients a life-like final model of their scanned dentition. The new iTero delivers substantially reduced capture time through improved optics and enhanced algorithms while maintaining a high standard of digital imaging accuracy, the efficiency of open source imaging and streamlined workflow. We will begin marketing and selling the new iTero in North America beginning February 2013 and soon thereafter in select international markets.

Restorative software for iTero.Software designed for GPs, prosthodontists, periodontists, and oral surgeons which includes features for restorative procedures commonly performed in their practices such as veneers, inlays, onlays, crowns, bridges and implants The iTero restorative software provides the ability to scan quadrants and full arches, and allows simple powder-free capture of digital impressions for single-unit cases as well as more complex restorative and implant treatment plans.  The iTero software also contains exclusive Invisalign interoperability to support clear aligner orthodontic treatment.

Orthodontic software for iTero.Software designed for orthodontists for digital records storage, orthodontic diagnosis, Invisalign digital impression submission, and for the fabrication of printed models and retainers.  The iTero orthodontic software digitally captures the contours of the dentition and the gingival structures, providing an accurate, powder-free digital orthodontic scan in just minutes.  This digital impression procedure ensures a more comfortable patient experience and










produces a precise scan that can be seamlessly integrated with Invisalign treatment, OrthoCAD iCast, and OrthoCAD iRecord which allows a doctor to utilize sophisticated measurement and treatment planning tools.

CAD/CAM Services

iTero Models and Dies.An accurate physical model and dies are manufactured based on the digital scan and sent to the laboratory of the dentist’s choice for completion of the needed restoration.  The laboratory also has the option to export the digital file for immediate production of coping and full-contour restorations on their laboratory CAD/CAM systems.  The laboratory conducts then completes the ceramic buildup or staining and glazing and delivers the end result—a precisely fitting restoration.  iTero prosthetics have a near-zero remake rate.

OrthoCAD iCast.iCast provides a digital alternative to traditional stone cast models which allows for simplified storage and digital record retrieval.  The iCast digital model contains a full ABO (American Board of Orthodontics) base and is available from an iTero scan or from a traditional alginate impression.

OrthoCAD iRecord.iRecord provides a digital alternative to traditional stone cast models which allows for simplified storage and digital record retrieval.  This simplified model without an ABO base is an economical option for record retention.  The iRecord is available exclusively from an iTero scan.

Chair Side Applications

Invisalign Outcome Simulator.  In January 2013, we announced the commercial availability of the Invisalign Outcome Simulator, our first Invisalign chair-side application powered by the iTero scanner.  The interactive application provides GPs and orthodontists an enhanced platform for patient eduction and is designed to increase treatment acceptance by helping patients visualize the benefits possible with Invisalign treatment.  As the only Invisalign chair-side intra-oral scanning application on the market, the Invisalign Outcome Simulator's unique dual view layout shows a prospective patient an image of his/her own current dentition next to his/her simulated final position of how their teeth may look after Invisalign treatment.  Using a full arch Invisalign scan, the Invisalign Outcome Simulator takes a few minutes to run and may be viewed chair-side, on the scanner, or from a computer using MyAlignTech.com.  Intuitive tools allow doctors to make real-time adjustments to individual teeth during consultations that increase patient education and the likelihood of patient acceptance.



Proprietary software mentioned in this Annual Report on Form 10-K such as ClinCheck software, the Invisalign Doctor Site,and enhanced features such as Invisalign G3 and Invisalign G4 are included as part of the Invisalign system and are not sold separately nor do they contribute as individual items of revenue.



Our iTero scanners include orthodontic software, restorative software, or both, and the Invisalign Outcome Simulator.  The orthodontic or restorative software may also be purchased subsequently for an upgrade fee.  The Invisalign Outcome Simulator is not available for sale separately.

Business Strategy

Our goal is to establish Invisalign treatment as the standard method for treating malocclusion and to establish our intra-oral scanning platform as the preferred scanning protocol for 3D digital scans, ultimately driving increased product adoption by dental professionals.  We intend to achieve this by focusing on the following key strategic initiatives:

1.Product innovation and clinical effectiveness.    We believe that product performance and innovation is a cornerstone to our long-term goal to drive and sustain product adoption, which includes introducing new products along with significant evolution in features and functionality.

2.Enhancing the customer experience.We are committed to enhancing the customer experience through the evolution of our customer facing systems and programs making it easier for our customers to adopt our products into their practice and increase utilization.

3.Increasing the effectiveness of our consumer demand creation and extending Invisalign brand awareness.As an established and known brand within the dental industry, efficiently marketing to the consumer and creating demand is one of our key strategic objectives for driving long-term growth.

4.Growth of international markets.    We will continue to focus our efforts towards increasing adoption of our products by dental professionals in our core European markets as well as expansion into new markets.

Manufacturing and Suppliers










Our manufacturing facilities are located in Juarez, Mexico, where we conduct our aligner fabrication, distribute and repair our scanners, perform our CAD/CAM services, and in Or Yehuda, Israel where we produce our handheld intra-oral scanner wand.  The final assembly of our  iTero scanner is performed by a third party manufacturer located in Israel.  Our digital planning of the Invisalign system and interpretation for iTero restorative cases are conducted primarily at our facility located in San Jose, Costa Rica.  Information regarding risks associated with our manufacturing process and foreign operations may be found inItem 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.”

Our quality system is required to be in compliance with the Quality System regulations enforced by the FDA, and similar regulations enforced by other worldwide regulatory authorities.  We are certified to EN ISO 13485:2003, an internationally recognized standard for medical device manufacturing.  We have a formal, documented quality system by which quality objectives are defined, understood and achieved.  Systems, processes and procedures are implemented to ensure high levels of product and service quality.  We monitor the effectiveness of the quality system based on internal data and direct customer feedback and strive to continually improve our systems and processes, taking corrective action, as needed.

Since the manufacturing process of our products requires substantial and varied technical expertise, we believe that our manufacturing capabilities are important to our success.  In order to produce our highly customized, highly precise, medical quality products in volume, we have developed a number of proprietary processes and technologies.  These technologies include complex software solutions, CT scanning, stereolithography and automated aligner fabrication.  To increase the efficiency of our manufacturing processes, we will continue to focus our efforts on software development and the improvement of rate-limiting processes, or bottlenecks.  We continuously upgrade our proprietary, three-dimensional treatment planning software to enhance computer analysis of treatment data and to reduce time spent on manual and judgmental tasks for each case, thereby increasing the efficiency of our technicians in Costa Rica.  In addition, to improve the efficiency and increase the scale of our operations, we will continue to invest in the development of automated systems for the fabrication and packaging of aligners.

We are highly dependent on manufacturers of specialized scanning equipment, rapid prototyping machines, resin and other advanced materials for our aligners, as well as the optics, electronic and other mechanical components of our intra-oral scanners.  We maintain single supply relationships for many of these machines and materials technologies.  In particular, our CT scanning and stereolithography equipment used in our aligner manufacturing and many of the critical components for the optics of our intra-oral scanners are provided by single suppliers.  We are also committed to purchasing all of our resin and polymer, the primary raw materials used in our manufacturing process for clear aligners, from a single source.  The need to replace one of our single source suppliers could cause a disruption in our ability to timely deliver certain of our products or increase costs.   See Item 1A Risk Factors— “We maintain single supply relationships for certain of our key machines and materials technologies, and our business andoperating results could be harmed if supply is restricted or ends or the price of raw materials used in our manufacturing process increases.”

Sales and Marketing

Our sales efforts are focused primarily on the Invisalign system and continuing to increase adoption and utilization by orthodontists and GPs worldwide.  In North America, our direct sales organization consists of approximately 200 people, which includes quota carrying sales representatives, sales management, and sales administration.  Internationally, we have approximately 60 people engaged in sales and sales support for the Invisalign system.  Our direct sales organization in North America is comprised of a team of territory managers and to a lesser extent, territory specialists.  These territory specialists are used to enhance coverage in larger territories, especially with our lower volume GP customers. Due to the success of this sales coverage model, we expect to add approximately 20 sales representatives in 2013, predominantly in North America.  In addition, when we transition our Asia-Pacific distributor to a direct sales model in May 2013, as described in the paragraph below, we will acquire approximately 15 additional sales representatives in that region.

Currently, we have three distribution partners that sell the Invisalign system in smaller non-core country markets in the Asia-Pacific, EMEA, and Latin America regions.  We evaluate adding distribution partners in other non-core country markets on a case-by-case basis or assess modifying our current distribution agreements, as our international business grows. Based on the continued progress in the Asia-Pacific distributor region, we expect to revert to a direct sales model in this region in the second quarter of 2013 and therefore will not renew the Asia-Pacific distribution agreement when it expires in April 2013.  As a result, on May 1, 2013, four of the largest indirect country markets of Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong and Singapore will revert back to a direct sales region and we will begin to recognize direct sales of Invisalign products sold in that region at our full average selling price ("ASP") rather than at the discounted average sales price under the distribution agreement.   In 2012, this distributor accounted for approximately 3% of worldwide revenues, and we expect them to become an even more meaningful contributor to revenue growth beginning in May 2013. In the near term, however, the assumption of the direct operating costs will offset the uplift to ASPs. Although we expect volumes and revenues will increase, we may experience










difficulties in achieving the anticipated financial benefits. The remaining eight indirect country markets in Brunei, Indonesia, Macau, Malaysia, Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam will likely continue under a distribution model.

For our intra-oral scanners, we have approximately 21 direct sales representatives in North America.  Our smaller intra-oral scanner sales team also leverages leads generated by our Invisalign sales and marketing resources, including customer events and industry trade-shows.  We also have distribution partners that sell our iTero intra-oral scanner in North America.  Effective October 2012, we terminated our agreement with Straumann as our exclusive distribution partner for iTero intra-oral scanners in Europe and our non-exclusive distribution partner North America. As a result, in the near term, we expect to have very few scanner sales internationally as we evaluate the most effective sales model to re-stage growth in this market.

We market Invisalign by communicating the benefits of the Invisalign system to dental professionals through our training programs, online and traditional mail campaigns, trade shows, trade journals and print.  We also promote the benefits of Invisalign through our integrated consumer marketing platform which combines traditional print and broadcast media with a balanced mix of public relations, event marketing, and social media.  The goal of this platform is to raise awareness of Invisalign and Invisalign Teen as the best options for a healthy, beautiful smile among adults and teenagers.  In addition, our consumer marketing platform enables us to help prospective patients find a great Invisalign treatment practice that can meet their needs.  For intra-oral scanners, in addition to leveraging Invisalign customer events and industry trade-shows to communicate the benefits of digital scanning to dental professionals, we also have training programs, educational websites and limited print advertising.

We provide training, marketing and clinical support to orthodontists and GPs.  In 2012, we had more than 34,230 active Invisalign providers and more than 3,200 intra-oral scanner installed based worldwide.

Research and Development

We are committed to investing in world-class technology development, which we believe is critical to achieving our goal of establishing the Invisalign system as the standard method for treating malocclusion and our intra-oral scanning platform as the preferred scanning protocol for 3D digital scans.  Our research and development expenses were$42.9 millionfor 2012,$37.2 millionfor 2011, and$26.0 millionfor 2010.

Our research and development activities are directed toward developing the technology innovations that we believe will deliver our next generation of products and platforms.  Our research and development activities range from accelerating product and clinical innovation, to developing manufacturing process improvements, to researching future technologies and products.

In an effort to demonstrate Invisalign’s broad treatment capabilities, various clinical case studies and articles have been published that highlight the clinical applicability of Invisalign to malocclusion cases, including those of severe complexity.  We are also undertaking pre-commercialization trial and testing as well as making additional technological improvements to the product and manufacturing process.

Intellectual Property

We believe our intellectual property position represents a substantial business advantage.  As of December 31, 2012, we had 280 issued U.S. patents, 141 pending U.S. patent applications, and 224 foreign issued patents, as well as 134 pending foreign patent applications.

We continue to pursue further intellectual property protection through U.S. and foreign patent applications and non-disclosure agreements.  We also seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws.  We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of any patent application or that patents that have been issued to us or that may be issued in the future will be found to be valid and enforceable and sufficient to protect our technology or products.  Our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged.  In addition, the laws of various foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws.  Our inability to protect our proprietary information could harm our business.  Information regarding risks associated with failing to protect our proprietary technology and our intellectual property rights may be found inItem 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.”

Seasonal Fluctuations

General economic conditions impact our business and financial results, and we experience seasonal trends related to our two operating segments, customer channels and the geographic locations that we serve.  For example, European sales of Invisalign treatment are often weaker in the summer months due to our customers and their patients being on holiday.  In North America, summer is typically the busiest season for orthodontists with practices that have a high percentage of adolescent and










teenage patients as many parents want to get their teenagers started in treatment before the start of the school year; however, many GPs are on vacation during this time and therefore tend to start fewer cases.  For our SCCS segment, capital equipment sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter.  Consequently, these seasonal trends have caused and may continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates.

Backlog

Due to the nature of Invisalign treatment which is prescribed by a doctor and therefore no two cases are alike, we maintain relatively low levels of backlog.  The period from which treatment data (or “a case”) is received until the acceptance of the digital ClinCheck treatment plan is dependent on the dental professional’s discretion to modify, accept or cancel the treatment plan.  Therefore, we consider the case a firm order to manufacture aligners once the dental professional has approved the ClinCheck treatment plan.  Our Invisalign backlog consists of ClinCheck treatment plans that have been accepted but not yet shipped.  Because aligners are shipped shortly after the ClinCheck treatment plan has been accepted, we believe that backlog is not a good indicator of future Invisalign sales.  Our quarterly Invisalign revenues can be impacted by the timing of the ClinCheck treatment plan acceptances and our ability to ship those cases in the same quarter.  We define our intra-oral scanner backlog as orders where payment is reasonably assured and credit and financing is approved but the scanner has not yet shipped. Our intra-oral scanner backlog as of December 31, 2012 was not material.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive market and we encounter a wide variety of competitors, including larger companies or divisions of larger companies with substantial sales, marketing, research and financial capabilities.  We also face competition from early stage companies.  Although the number of competitors varies by segment, currently our products compete directly against products manufactured and distributed by various companies, both within and outside the U.S., including Danaher Corporation, 3M, Sirona Dental Systems, Inc. and Dentsply International, Inc.  Information regarding risks associated with increased competition may be found inItem 1Aof this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.”

Key competitive factors include:

•effectiveness of treatment;

•price;

•software features;

•aesthetic appeal of the treatment method;

•customer support;

•customer online interface;

•brand awareness;

•innovation;

•distribution network;

•comfort associated with the treatment method;

•oral hygiene;

•ease of use; and

•dental professionals’ chair time.

We believe that our products compare favorably with our competitors’ products with respect to each of these factors.

Government Regulation

We believe we are in compliance with all FDA, federal and state laws and International regulatory requirements that are applicable to our products and manufacturing operations.

U.S.

U.S. Food and Drug Administration.    In the U.S., we must comply with applicable FDA Quality System, dental, and medical device regulations identified in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR).  Our Invisalign products and intra-oral scanners are classified as Class II medical devices.  The Invisalign system has received premarket clearance from the FDA










pursuant to the 510(k) pre-market notification procedure, allowing us to market the Invisalign family of products in the U.S. Our intra-oral scanners are 510(k) Exempt with Special Controls, which allows us to market this product in the U.S. without submitting a 510(k) pre-market notification.  We are subject to routine inspections by the FDA and state of California Food and Drug Branch (FDB) for compliance with Quality System Regulations.  We maintain applicable City, State, and Federal licenses and registrations for each of our facilities.

If the FDA determines that we do not comply with the applicable FDA regulations, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions against us, ranging from a public Warning Letter to more severe sanctions, including but not limited to financial penalties, withdrawal of our right to market our products and/or criminal prosecution.

Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996

Other Federal and State Laws

Canada

In Canada, we must comply with Health Canada’s Medical Device Regulations (SOR/98-282).  Our Invisalign system family of products is classified as a Class II medical device and we maintain a Medical Device License for this product.  Our intra-oral scanners are classified as Class I medical device in Canada.

European Union

In the European Union, the Invisalign system is regulated as a custom device and we must comply with the requirements of the Medical Device Directives (MDD 93/42/EEC).  Also, our intra-oral scanners are classified as Class I medical devices by the MDD and bear the CE mark showing that such products adhere to the European regulations.  Our Quality Management System is ISO 13485:2003 certified, which facilitates commercialization of our products in Europe.

China










In 2010, we received a “Registration Certificate for Medical Device” from China’s State Food and Drug Administration to market and sell the Invisalign system family of products for the treatment of malocclusion, as a Class I medical device.  Currently, we do not sell our intra-oral scanners in China.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we had 3,176 employees, including 2,086 in manufacturing and operations, 466 in sales and marketing which includes customer care, 234 in research and development and 390 in general and administrative functions.

Available Information

Our website is located atwww.aligntech.com, and our investor relations website is located athttp://investor.aligntech.com.  The information on or accessible through our websites is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, our proxy statement on Schedule 14A for our annual stockholders’ meeting and amendments to such reports are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with the SEC.  Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings atwww.sec.gov.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as ofMarch 1, 2013:



NameAgePositionThomas M. Prescott57President and Chief Executive OfficerKenneth B. Arola (1)57Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial OfficerJennifer M. Erfurth43Vice President, Global Human ResourcesRoger E. George  (1)47Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs General CounselTimothy A. Mack54Senior Vice President, Marketing and Business DevelopmentChristopher C. Puco52Vice President, North American SalesRichard Twomey48Vice President, InternationalEmory M. Wright43Vice President, Operations

________________

(1) On January 30, 2013, we announced that Mr. Arola was stepping down from his position as Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, effective March 4, 2013.  Mr. Arola will remain an employee until June 28, 2013.  As of March 4, 2013, Mr. George will serve as Interim Chief Financial Officer.

Thomas M. Prescotthas served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our Board of Directors since March 2002.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Prescott was President and Chief Executive Officer of Cardiac Pathways, Inc., a publicly-traded medical device company, from May 1999 until its acquisition by Boston Scientific in August 2001.  Mr. Prescott then worked as a consultant for Boston Scientific Corporation until January 2002.  Prior to working at Cardiac Pathways, Mr. Prescott held various sales, general management and executive roles at Nellcor Puritan Bennett, Inc. from April 1994 to May 1999.

Kenneth B. Arolahas served as our Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer since December 2007.  He joined us as Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller in August 2005.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Arola served for fourteen years at Adaptec, Inc, an electronic data storage equipment company, where he held various senior finance management positions, most recently as Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller.  His experience also includes positions of increasing responsibility in various financial roles at Varian Associates and Cooper Labs.

Jennifer M. Erfurthjoined Align as our Vice President of Global Human Resources in October 2012. Prior to joining us, Ms. Erfurth was senior vice president of shared services at Dyno Nobel, Inc., a manufacturer and supplier of industrial explosives, from July 2011 to July 2012 and was vice president, human resources for Federal Signal Corporation.  From 2001 to 2010, Ms. Erfurth held positions of increasing responsibility at Schawk, Inc., most recently as global senior vice president of  human resources, a position she held from 2007 until her departure in 2010.  Earlier in her career, she served  as  director of  human resources at CINTAS Corporation and World Color.










Roger E. Georgehas served as our Vice President, Legal and Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 2002.  Prior to joining us, Mr. George was the Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance and Legal Affairs and General Counsel of SkyStream Networks, a privately held broadband and broadcast network equipment company.  Prior to SkyStream, Mr. George was a partner at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, P.C. in Palo Alto, California.

Timothy A. Mackwas appointed Senior Vice President, Marketing and Business Development in May 2012.  He served as Senior Vice President, Business Development since our  acquisition of Cadent Holdings, Inc. in April 2011.  At Cadent, he was President and Chief Executive Officer since 2009.  He joined Cadent in 2005, as Executive Vice President & General Manager where he led the introduction and adoption of Cadent’s new 3D digital imaging technology into the market.  Prior to Cadent, Mr. Mack was Vice President and General Manager of DENTSPLY Ceramco, a wholly-owned subsidiary of DENTSPLY International.  Prior to DENTSPLY, Mr. Mack held a series of management positions in the U.S. and Europe within Consumer Electronics and Medical Imaging Divisions at Eastman Kodak Company.

Christopher C. Pucowas appointed Vice President of North America Sales in December 2012. He joined Align in 2006 as a sales director and in 2008 became senior director for the Eastern sales area. Most recently, as vice president of sales strategy, he led Align's go to market strategy and managed the integration of the North American scanner and CAD/CAM services sales organization. Mr. Puco has more than 20 years of experience in the medical device industry, holding sales management positions in both starts-ups and established corporate environments. Prior to Align, he was with United States Surgical Corporation, General Surgical Innovations, Baxter BioSurgery and Fusion Medical Technologies.

Richard Twomeyhas served as our Vice President, International since May 2010.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Twomey spent the past 13 years in senior management positions within divisions of Johnson & Johnson, having served most recently as president of DePuy, International Ltd., part of the DePuy Orthopaedics, a global leader in the provision of surgical implants for orthopaedic applications, as well as diversified interests in spinal, sports medicine and neurology sectors.  Mr. Twomey also served as managing director and director of marketing for Johnson & Johnson Bone Tissue Management Group.  Prior to Johnson & Johnson, Mr. Twomey held various sales and marketing positions at Biomet Ltd, Howmedica International Ltd., and Stafford Millar.

Emory M. Wrighthas served as our Vice President, Operations since December 2007.  He has been with us since March 2000, predominantly in manufacturing and operations roles.  Previously, Mr. Wright served as Vice President, Manufacturing and most recently was General Manager of New Product Development.  Prior to joining us, Mr. Wright was Senior Manufacturing Manager at Metrika, Inc.  a medical device manufacturer, from May 1999 to March 2000.  From July 1994 to May 1999, Mr. Wright served as Manager of Manufacturing and Process Development for Metra Biosystems Inc.





