Item 1. Business.



Summary



Leggett & Platt, Incorporated was founded as a partnership in Carthage, Missouri in 1883 and was incorporated in 1901. The Company,
a pioneer of the steel coil bedspring, has become an international diversified manufacturer that conceives designs and produces a wide range of engineered components and products found in many homes, offices, retail stores and automobiles. As
discussed below, our operations are organized into 19 business units, which are divided into 10 groups under our four segments: Residential Furnishings; Commercial Fixturing & Components; Industrial Materials; and Specialized Products. We
have also classified certain businesses as discontinued operations.



Overview of Our Segments



Residential
Furnishings Segment







Our Residential Furnishings
segment began with an 1885 patent of the steel coil bedspring. Today, we supply a variety of components used by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers in the assembly of their finished products. Our range of products offers our customers a
single source for many of their component needs.



Long production runs, internal production of key raw materials, and numerous manufacturing and assembly locations allow us to supply many customers with components at a lower cost than they can produce themselves. In addition to cost
savings, sourcing components from us allows our customers to focus on designing, merchandising and marketing their products.







PART I



Products



Products manufactured or distributed by our Residential Furnishings groups include:



Bedding Group

•Innersprings (sets of steel coils, bound together, that form the core of a mattress)

•Wire forms for mattress foundations



Furniture Group

•Steel mechanisms and hardware (enabling furniture to recline, tilt, swivel, rock and elevate) for reclining chairs and sleeper sofas

•Springs and seat suspensions for chairs, sofas and loveseats

•Steel tubular seat frames

•Bed frames, ornamental beds, and “top-of-bed” accessories

•Adjustable electric beds



Fabric & Carpet Underlay Group

•Structural fabrics for mattresses, residential furniture and industrial uses

•Carpet underlay materials (bonded scrap foam, felt, rubber and prime foam)

•Geo components (synthetic fabrics and various other products used in ground stabilization, drainage protection, erosion and weed control, as well as
silt fencing)



Customers



Most of our Residential Furnishings customers are manufacturers
of finished bedding products (mattresses and foundations) or upholstered furniture for residential use. We also sell many products, including ornamental beds, bed frames, adjustable beds, carpet underlay, and top-of-bed accessories, directly to
retailers and distributors. We sell geo components products primarily to dealers, contractors, landscapers, road construction companies and government agencies.



Commercial Fixturing & Components Segment







Our Fixture & Display
group designs, produces, installs and manages our customers’ store fixtures and point-of-purchase projects. Our Office Furniture Components group designs, manufactures, and distributes a wide range of engineered components targeted for the
office seating market.







PART I



Products



Products manufactured or distributed by our Commercial Fixturing & Components groups include:



Fixture & Display Group

•Custom-designed, full store fixture packages for retailers, including shelving, counters, showcases and garment racks

•Standardized shelving used by large retailers, grocery stores and discount chains

•Point-of-purchase displays



Office Furniture Components Group

•Bases, columns, back rests, casters and frames for office chairs, and control devices that allow office chairs to tilt, swivel and elevate



Customers



Customers of the Commercial Fixturing & Components
segment include:

•Retail chains and specialty shops

•Brand name marketers and distributors of consumer products

•Office, institutional and commercial furniture manufacturers



Industrial Materials Segment







We believe that the quality of
the Industrial Materials segment’s products and service, together with low cost, have made us North America’s leading supplier of drawn steel wire and a major producer of welded steel tubing. Our Wire group operates a steel rod mill with
an annual output of approximately 500,000 tons, of which a substantial majority is used by our own wire mills. We have six wire mills that supply virtually all the wire consumed by our other domestic businesses. Our Tubing group operates two major
plants that also supply nearly all of our internal needs for welded steel tubing. In addition to supporting our internal requirements, the Industrial Materials segment supplies many external customers with wire and tubing products.







PART I



Products



Products manufactured or distributed by our Industrial Materials groups include:



Wire Group

•Steel rod

•Drawn wire

•Steel billets

•Fabricated wire products, such as shaped wire for automotive and medical supply applications; tying heads, boxed wire, and parts for automatic baling
equipment; coated wire products, including dishwasher racks; and wire retail fixtures and point-of-purchase displays



Tubing Group

•Welded steel tubing

•Fabricated tube components



Customers



We use about half of our wire output and about one-quarter of our welded steel tubing output to manufacture our own products. For example, we
use our wire and steel tubing to make:

•Bedding and furniture components

•Motion furniture mechanisms

•Commercial fixtures, point-of-purchase displays and shelving

•Automotive seat components and frames



The Industrial Materials segment also has a diverse group of external customers, including:

•Bedding and furniture makers

•Automotive seating manufacturers

•Lawn and garden equipment manufacturers

•Mechanical spring makers

•Waste recyclers and waste removal businesses

•Medical supply businesses



Specialized Products Segment











PART I



Our Specialized Products segment designs, produces and sells components primarily for automotive seating, specialized machinery and
equipment, and service van interiors. Our established design capability and focus on product development have made us a leader in innovation. We also benefit from our broad geographic presence and our internal production of key raw materials and
components.



Products



Products manufactured or distributed by our Specialized Products
groups include:



Automotive Group

•Manual and power lumbar support and massage systems for automotive seating

•Seat suspension systems

•Automotive control cables, such as shift cables, cruise-control cables, seat belt cables, accelerator cables, seat control cables and latch release
cables

•Low voltage motors and actuation assemblies

•Formed metal and wire components for seat frames



Machinery Group

•Full range of quilting machines for mattress covers

•Machines used to shape wire into various types of springs

•Industrial sewing/finishing machines



Commercial Vehicle Products Group

•Van interiors (the racks, shelving and cabinets installed in service vans)

•Docking stations that mount computers and other electronic equipment inside vehicles

•Specialty trailers used by telephone, cable and utility companies



Customers



Our primary customers for the Specialized Products segment include:

•Automobile seating manufacturers

•Bedding manufacturers

•Telecom, cable, home service and delivery companies



Strategic Direction



In November 2007 we outlined significant changes to the Company’s strategy. We adopted a new primary financial metric, Total Shareholder
Return,(TSR = (Change in Stock Price + Dividends Received) / Beginning Stock Price), changed the priorities for use of cash, adopted role-based portfolio management and implemented more rigorous strategic planning. Our goals over several
years, in sequential order, have been and continue to be to: i) divest low performing businesses, ii) return more cash to investors, iii) improve margins and returns on remaining assets, and iv) then begin to carefully and conservatively grow the
Company (at 4-5% of annual revenue).







PART I



We spent 2008 concentrating primarily on the divestitures, which are largely completed. In 2009 we focused on, and improved, margins; that
focus will continue in 2010. Disciplined growth will be a priority in future years. Consistent with our new objectives, we’ve significantly increased dividends and repurchased our stock.



Strategic Objective



TSR is now the primary financial metric we are using to gauge
success of our strategy. Our goal is to achieve TSR in the top 1/3 of the S&P 500, which we believe, in the long term, will require average TSR of 12-15% per year. For the two-year period ended December 31, 2009, our TSR performance
places us within the top 4% of the S&P 500.



Consistent with this change, we modified some of our incentive plans to emphasize the importance of TSR. Beginning in January 2008, we introduced a new performance incentive for senior executives based solely on 3-year TSR relative to
peers.



We now employ four key levers to improve
TSR: i) profitable revenue growth, ii) margin improvement, iii) dividends, and iv) stock repurchases. Historically, we focused primarily on the revenue growth lever. We expect that a more balanced approach will generate consistently higher TSR.



More Cash to Shareholders



In 2007 we announced our intent to: i) generate more cash by
improving returns, divesting some assets, and more diligently managing working capital, ii) reduce the amount of cash used for acquisitions and capital spending, and iii) return more cash to shareholders in the form of dividends and stock
repurchases.



We generated $1 billion of cash flow
from operations in 2008 and 2009 (combined), and we raised over $420 million (after tax) from divestiture proceeds. Furthermore, as anticipated, since 2007 we’ve reduced combined annual spending for acquisitions and capital expenditures by over
50% (to about $86 million in 2009).



As a result,
we were able to raise quarterly dividends, from $.18 (3Q 2007) to $.26 currently. We’ve also spent nearly $500 million to repurchase about 27 million shares during 2008 and 2009, which reduced outstanding shares by approximately 12%.



Narrower Focus



After significant study, in late 2007 we decided to narrow our
focus and eliminate approximately 20% of our revenue base. During 2008 we divested 5 of the 7 targeted business units, including the entire Aluminum Products segment. A sixth unit was sold during 2009, and we expect to divest the seventh in 2010.



In late 2008 we concluded that the Store Fixtures
business unit, as then structured, was not capable of meeting our return requirements. Accordingly, we narrowed the scope of the Store Fixtures unit to concentrate primarily on the metals part of its industry, in alignment with our core
competencies. We also eliminated production facilities, effected







PART I



changes to senior management, reduced overhead, and purged accounts with unacceptable margins. This smaller, more focused business unit is now a “Core” business (as described below).



For information on asset impairments and
restructuring costs associated with our strategic direction see the discussion of “Asset Impairments and Restructuring-related Charges” in Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations on page 37, and Note C on page 85 and Note D on page 89 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Portfolio Management



We now manage our business units as a portfolio, with different roles (Grow, Core, Fix, Divest) for each business unit based upon competitive
advantages, strategic position, and financial health. During 2008 we implemented a rigorous strategic planning process, in part to continually assess each business unit’s portfolio role. Historically, we managed all businesses fairly uniformly,
with each awarded capital and expected to grow significantly; that is no longer the case. Business units in the Grow category should provide avenues for profitable growth in competitively advantaged positions. Core business units are expected to
enhance productivity, maintain market share, and generate cash flow from operations while using minimal capital. Business units in the Fix category will be given a limited time in which to significantly improve performance (with some latitude given
them due to the weak economy). Finally, a few small business units (and portions of business units) are considered non-strategic, and will likely be divested as the M&A market recovers and allows for reasonable sales prices.



Improving Returns and Margins on our Asset Base



To remain in the portfolio, business units are expected to
consistently generate after-tax returns in excess of the Company’s cost of capital. Each business unit has opportunity to improve, and may employ a variety of means to achieve higher returns including trimming expenses, introducing new
products, improving productivity, adopting more disciplined pricing, reducing working capital, and consolidating assets. Business units that fail to consistently maintain minimum return goals will move to the Fix or Divest categories.



During 2009 significant effort went into improving margins,
despite economy-driven reductions in sales. EBIT margin for 2008 was 5.7% on $4.1 billion of sales while EBIT margin for 2009 was 7.5% on sales of $3.1 billion. Gross margin for 2008 and 2009 was 17.0% and 20.6%, respectively.



Disciplined Growth



For the near-term we expect to focus on better managing the
current asset base and improving returns. That pursuit will require much of senior management’s attention, and during this period revenue growth is likely to be minimal. Over the longer term, the Company expects to focus its growth efforts on a
narrower set of higher quality opportunities, with a target of 4-5% annual revenue growth. Growth capital will be predominantly earmarked for the Grow business units, which are expected to expand at







PART I



rates in excess of U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth. Core business units, for the most part, are operating in markets that grow more slowly than GDP, and are expected to at least maintain
market share. Longer term growth is expected to incorporate product innovation and opportunities to enter new, higher growth businesses that meet strict criteria.



Acquisitions and Divestitures



Historically, our typical acquisition targets have been small, private, profitable, entrepreneurial companies that manufacture goods either
within our existing product lines or “one step away” from those product lines and complementary to our existing businesses. As part of our change in strategic direction, we expect fewer and more strategic acquisitions to be completed. All
acquisitions should create value by enhancing TSR; they should have clear strategic rationale and sustainable competitive advantage in attractive markets.



2009 and 2008 Acquisitions



We had no significant acquisitions in 2009 or 2008.



2007 Acquisitions



We acquired three businesses during 2007 with annualized sales of approximately $100 million broken down by segment as follows:



Commercial Fixturing & Components$20 millionIndustrial Materials$50 millionSpecialized Products$30 million



In Commercial Fixturing & Components we added one business located in China that produces office chair controls. We also added one
business to the Industrial Materials segment, which produces coated wire products, including racks for dishwashers. Finally, in the Specialized Products segment, we added a business which is a designer and assembler of docking stations that secure
computer and other electronic equipment inside vehicles.



For further information about acquisitions, see Note R on page 114 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



2009 Divestitures



We divested the Coated Fabrics business unit (previously in the Residential Furnishings segment) in the third quarter of 2009. No significant
gains or losses were realized on the sale of this unit. Coated Fabrics is reflected as a discontinued operation with 2009 revenue of approximately $12 million. An additional business unit, Storage Products, is targeted for divestiture. Although
market conditions have delayed the timing of this disposition, we are fully committed to selling this business.







PART I



2008 Divestitures



We divested five significant businesses in 2008 with annualized sales of approximately $780 million. The largest divestiture (approximately
$485 million in annualized revenue) was the Aluminum Products segment which was sold in July 2008. We also sold four other business units in 2008 – Wood Products and Fibers (previously in the Residential Furnishings segment); Plastics
(previously in the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment); and the dealer portion of Commercial Vehicle Products (previously in the Specialized Products segment). We received after-tax cash proceeds of approximately $408 million for the
five divested businesses, not including subordinated notes and preferred stock. All of these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations.



2007 Divestitures



In the first quarter of 2007, we divested our Prime Foam Products business unit (previously in the Residential Furnishings segment) and
received after-tax cash proceeds of approximately $70 million. Our former Prime Foam Products business unit had annual revenue of approximately $190 million and has been classified as a discontinued operation.



For further information about divestitures and discontinued
operations, see Note B on page 83 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Segment Financial Information



For information about sales to external customers, sales by product line, earnings before interest and taxes, and total assets of each of our segments, refer to Note F on page 93 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.



Foreign Operations



The percentages of our external sales from continuing operations
related to products manufactured outside the United States for the previous three years are shown below.











PART I



Our international continuing operations are principally located in Europe, China, Canada and Mexico. The products we make in these countries
primarily consist of:



Europe

•Innersprings for mattresses

•Wire and wire products

•Lumbar and seat suspension systems for automotive seating

•Machinery and equipment designed to manufacture innersprings for mattresses and other bedding-related components

•Design and distribution of point-of-purchase displays for retailers



China

•Innersprings for mattresses

•Recliner mechanisms and bases for upholstered furniture

•Formed wire for upholstered furniture

•Retail store fixtures and gondola shelving

•Office furniture components, including chair bases and casters

•Stamped seat frames and formed metal products for automotive seating

•Cables and small electric motors used in lumbar systems for automotive seating

•Machinery and replacement parts for machines used in the bedding industry



Canada

•Innersprings for mattresses

•Fabricated wire for the bedding, furniture and automotive industries

•Chair bases, table bases and office chair controls

•Lumbar supports for automotive seats

•Wire and steel storage systems and racks for the interior of service vans and utility vehicles



Mexico

•Innersprings and fabricated wire for the bedding industry

•Retail shelving and point-of-purchase displays

•Automotive control cable systems



Our international expansion strategy is to locate our operations where we believe demand for components is growing. Also, in instances where
our customers move the production of their finished products overseas, we have located facilities nearby to supply them more efficiently.



Our international operations face the risks associated with any operation in a foreign country. These risks include:

•Nationalization of private enterprises

•Political instability in certain countries

•Foreign legal systems that make it difficult to protect intellectual property and enforce contract rights

•Credit risks

•Increased costs due to tariffs, customs and shipping rates

•Potential problems obtaining raw materials, and disruptions related to the availability of electricity and transportation during times of crisis or war

•Foreign currency fluctuation







PART I



Our Specialized Products segment, which derives 74% of its trade sales from foreign operations is particularly subject to the above risks.
These and other foreign-related risks could result in cost increases, reduced profits, the inability to carry on our foreign operations and other adverse effects on our business.



Geographic Areas of Operation



We have production, warehousing and distribution facilities in countries around the world. Below is a list of countries where we have
facilities associated with continuing operations:



ResidentialFurnishingsCommercialFixturing &ComponentsIndustrialMaterialsSpecializedProductsNorth AmericaCanadannnMexiconnnUnited StatesnnnnEuropeAustrianBelgiumnCroatiannDenmarknGermanynHungarynItalynnSwitzerlandnUnited KingdomnnnSouth AmericaUruguaynBrazilnAsia / PacificAustralianChinannnIndianSouth KoreanAfricaSouth African



For further information concerning our external sales from continuing operations related to products manufactured outside the United States and our tangible long-lived assets outside the United States,
refer to Note F on page 93 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.







PART I



Sales by Product Line



The following table shows our approximate percentage of external sales from continuing operations by classes of similar products for the last
three years:



Product Line200720082009Bedding Group17%19%21%Furniture Group171618Fabric & Carpet Underlay Group191616Wire Group101412Fixture & Display Group141211Automotive Group988Office Furniture Components Group555Commercial Vehicle Products Group444Machinery Group333Tubing Group232



Distribution of Products



In each of our segments, we sell and distribute our products primarily through our own sales personnel. However, many of our businesses have relationships and agreements with outside sales representatives
and distributors. We do not believe any of these agreements or relationships would, if terminated, have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of the Company.



Raw Materials



The products we manufacture in continuing operations require a variety of raw materials. Among the most
important are:

•Various types of steel, including scrap, rod, wire, coil, sheet and angle iron

•Foam scrap

•Woven and non-woven fabrics



We supply our own raw materials for many of the products we make. For example, we produce steel rod that we make into steel wire, which we
then use to manufacture:

•Innersprings and foundations for mattresses

•Springs and seat suspensions for chairs and sofas

•Displays, shelving and racks for retailers

•Automotive seating components



We supply the majority of our steel rod requirements through our own rod mill. Our own wire drawing mills supply nearly all of our U.S.
requirements for steel wire. We also produce welded steel tubing both for our own consumption and for sale to external customers. In addition, we believe that worldwide supply sources are available for all the raw materials we use.



We have experienced volatility in raw material prices over the
past few years, most notably in steel. Steel costs increased significantly in 2008 and we implemented price







PART I



increases to recover these higher costs. Market prices for steel began to decrease in late 2008, but with the precipitous drop in demand late in the year and our inability to cancel or return
higher priced earlier purchases, we entered 2009 with high steel costs in inventory. As steel costs decreased in 2009, we implemented selective price reductions; however at current commodity cost levels, we have enhanced our margins.



The future pricing of raw materials is uncertain. The degree to
which we are able to mitigate or recover higher costs, should they occur, could influence our future earnings. Also, if raw material costs decrease there may be downward pressure on selling prices, temporarily resulting in lower segment margins as
we consume higher cost inventories.



Higher raw
material costs in recent years have led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of our components in their finished goods. In some cases, higher cost components have been replaced with lower cost
components, causing us to shift production accordingly. This has primarily impacted profit margins in our Residential Furnishings and Industrial Materials segments. We are responding by developing new products (including new types of innersprings
and box springs) that enable our customers to reduce their total costs, and in certain instances, provide higher margin and profit contribution for our operations.



Customer Concentration



We serve thousands of customers worldwide, sustaining many long-term business relationships. In 2009, no customer accounted for more than 6%
of our consolidated revenues from continuing operations. Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 21% of these consolidated revenues. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company, as a whole,
or on the respective segment in which the customer’s sales are reported, including our Residential Furnishings, Commercial Fixturing & Components and Specialized Products segments.







PART I



Patents and Trademarks



The chart below shows the approximate numbers of patents issued, patents in process, trademarks registered and trademarks in process held by
our continuing operations at the end of 2009. No single patent or group of patents, or trademark or group of trademarks, is material to our continuing operations. Most of our patents and trademarks relate to products sold in the Specialized Products
and Residential Furnishings segments.







Some of our most significant
trademarks include:

•Semi-Flex®(boxspring components and foundations)

•Mira-Coil®, VertiCoil®, Lura-Flex®andSuperlastic®(mattress innersprings)

•Lifestyles™,S-cape®andAdjustables®by Leggett & Platt®(adjustable electric beds)

•Wall Hugger®(recliner chair mechanisms)

•Super Sagless®(motion and sofa sleeper mechanisms)

•No-Sag®(wire forms used in seating)

•Tack & Jump®andPattern Link®(quilting machines)

•Hanes®(fiber materials)

•Schukra®,Pullmaflex®andFlex-O-Lator®(automotive seating products)

•Spuhl®(mattress innerspring manufacturing machines)

•Gribetz™andPorter®(quilting and sewing machines)

•Quietflex®andMasterack®(equipment and accessories for vans and trucks)



Research and Development



We maintain research, engineering and testing centers in Carthage, Missouri and do additional research and development work at many of our
other facilities. We are unable to calculate precisely the cost of research and development because the personnel involved in product and machinery development also spend portions of their time in other areas. However, we estimate the cost of
research and development associated with continuing operations ranged from $20 to $30 million per year in each of the last three years.







PART I



Employees



As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 18,500 employees associated with our continuing operations, of which roughly 13,200 were
engaged in production. Of the 18,500, approximately 8,200 are international employees. Labor unions represent roughly 12% of our employees associated with continuing operations. We did not experience any material work stoppage related to contract
negotiations with labor unions during 2009. Management is not aware of any circumstances likely to result in a material work stoppage related to contract negotiations with labor unions during 2010.



The chart below shows the approximate number of employees
associated with continuing operations by segment.







As of December 31, 2008, we had
approximately 20,600 employees associated with continuing operations.



Employees in Discontinued Operations



At December 31, 2009, we had approximately 300 employees associated with discontinued operations, all of which are in the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company had
approximately 490 and 6,550 employees, respectively, associated with its discontinued operations.



For more information on our discontinued operations, see Note B on page 83 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Competition



Many companies offer products that compete with those we manufacture and sell. The number of competing
companies varies by product line, but many of the markets for our







PART I



products are highly competitive. We tend to attract and retain customers through product quality, innovation, competitive pricing and customer service. Many of our competitors try to win business
primarily on price but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well.



We believe we are the largest independent manufacturer in North America, in terms of revenue, of the following:

•Components for residential furniture and bedding

•Carpet underlay

•Components for office furniture

•Drawn steel wire

•Automotive seat support and lumbar systems

•Adjustable beds

•Bedding industry machinery for wire forming, sewing and quilting



We face ongoing pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a portion of their components
and finished products from Asia. In instances where our customers move production of their finished products overseas, we believe our operations should be located nearby to supply them efficiently. Accordingly, at the end of 2009, Leggett operated
10 facilities in China.





Seasonality



As a diversified manufacturer, we generally have not experienced
significant seasonality. The timing of acquisitions, dispositions, and economic factors in any year can distort the underlying seasonality in certain of our businesses. Nevertheless, for the Company as a whole, the second and third quarters
typically have proportionately greater sales, while the first and fourth quarters are generally lower.







PART I



Our four segments tend to experience seasonality as follows:

•Residential Furnishings: typically has the strongest sales in the second and third quarters due to increased consumer demand for bedding and furniture during those periods.

•Commercial Fixturing & Components: generally has heavy third quarter sales of its store fixture products, with the first and fourth quarters normally lower. This aligns with the retail industry’s normal
construction cycle—the opening of new stores and completion of remodeling projects in advance of the holiday season.

•Industrial Materials: minimal variation in sales throughout the year.

•Specialized Products: relatively little quarter-to-quarter variation in sales, although the automotive business is somewhat heavier in the second and fourth quarters of the year and lower in the third quarter due to model
changeovers and plant shutdowns in the automobile industry during the summer.



Backlog



Our customer relationships and our manufacturing and inventory practices do not create a material amount of backlog orders for any of our segments. Production and inventory levels are geared primarily to the level of incoming orders and
projected demand based on customer relationships.



Working Capital Items



For further information regarding working
capital items, see the discussion of “Cash from Operations” in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on page 50.



Environmental Regulation



Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and
regulations related to the protection of the environment. We have policies intended to ensure that our operations are conducted in compliance with applicable laws. While we cannot predict policy changes by various regulatory agencies, management
expects that compliance with these laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, capital expenditures, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.



The U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation to
address climate change that is intended to reduce overall green house gas emissions, including carbon dioxide. Similar initiatives are being pursued at the state level as well. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has made a
determination that green house gas emissions may be a threat to human health and the environment. It is uncertain if, when, and in what form, a mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be enacted either through legislation or
regulation. However, if enacted, this type of program could materially increase our operating costs, including costs of raw materials, transportation and electricity. In that event, our intent would be to raise prices in order to cover the cost
increases.



Internet Access to Information



We routinely post information for investors to our website
(www.leggett.com) under the Investor Relations section. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form







PART I



10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are made available, free of charge, on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filed with, or
furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to these reports, the Company’s Financial Code of Ethics, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as charters for its Audit,
Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors can be found on our website. Information contained on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Discontinued Operations



As a result of our new strategic direction adopted at the end of
2007, several of our businesses are disclosed in our annual financial statements as discontinued operations since (i) the operations and cash flows of the businesses can be clearly distinguished and have been or will be eliminated from our
ongoing operations; (ii) the businesses have either been disposed of or are classified as held for sale; and (iii) we do not, or will not have any significant continuing involvement in the operations of the businesses after the disposal
transactions. The discontinued operations include:



•Aluminum Products segment. We divested
this segment in July 2008. It produced and sold non-automotive aluminum, zinc and magnesium die castings, and new and refurbished dies (also known as molds or tools) for all types and sizes of die casting machines. It also provided machining,
coating, finishing, sub-assembly and other value-added services for die cast components. These products and services were sold to (i) small engine and diesel engine builders; (ii) motorcycle, off-road and recreational vehicle, truck and
automobile makers; (iii) manufacturers of outdoor lighting fixtures, cable line amplifiers, wireless communications systems, and other cable and telecommunication products; (iv) consumer appliance and power tool manufacturers;
(v) producers of electric motors, computers and electronics; (vi) gas barbeque grill manufacturers; and (vii) die cast manufacturers.



•Prime Foam Products unit, Wood Products unit, Fibers unit and the Coated Fabrics unit (each
previously reported in the Residential Furnishings segment).



(i)We divested the Prime Foam Products unit in the first quarter of 2007. It primarily produced commodity foam used for cushioning by bedding and upholstered furniture
manufacturers.

(ii)We divested the Wood Products unit in the third quarter of 2008. It sold wood frames and cut-to-size dimension lumber to bedding manufacturers.

(iii)We divested the Fibers unit in the fourth quarter of 2008. It sold fiber cushioning material primarily to bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers.

(iv)We divested the Coated Fabrics unit in the third quarter of 2009. It sold non-slip rug underlay and shelf liners primarily to retailers and distributors.



•Plastics unit and the Storage Products unit (each previously reported in the Commercial
Fixturing & Components segment).



(i)The Plastics unit, which was divested in the third quarter of 2008, sold injection molded plastic components primarily for manufacturers of lawn care equipment and
power tools.







PART I



(ii)The Storage Products unit sells storage racks and carts used in the food service and healthcare industries. This divestiture has not yet been completed.



•An automotive seating components operation and the dealer portion of the Commercial Vehicle Products
unit (each previously reported in the Specialized Products segment).



(i)The automotive seating components operation, which we divested in the first quarter of 2008, sold welded assemblies, and wire and tubular frames for automotive seating.

(ii)We divested the dealer portion of the Commercial Vehicle Products unit in the third quarter of 2008. It sold truck bodies for cargo vans, flatbed trucks, service trucks
and dump trucks primarily to end-users of light-to-medium duty commercial trucks.



For further information on discontinued operations, see Note B on page 83 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



