Item 1. Business.



Summary



Leggett & Platt, Incorporated was founded as a
partnership in Carthage, Missouri in 1883 and was incorporated in 1901. The Company, a pioneer of the steel coil bedspring, has become an international diversified manufacturer that conceives, designs and produces a wide range of engineered
components and products found in many homes, offices, retail stores and automobiles. As discussed below, our operations are organized into 19 business units, which are divided into 10 groups under our four segments: Residential Furnishings;
Commercial Fixturing & Components; Industrial Materials; and Specialized Products. In addition, certain of our former businesses are classified as discontinued operations.



Overview of Our Segments



Residential Furnishings Segment







Our Residential Furnishings
segment began with an 1885 patent of the steel coil bedspring. Today, we supply a variety of components used by bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers in the assembly of their finished products. Our range of products offers our customers a
single source for many of their component needs.



Long production runs, internal production of key raw materials, and numerous manufacturing and assembly locations allow us to supply many
customers with components at a lower cost than they can produce themselves. In addition to cost savings, sourcing components from us allows our customers to focus on designing, merchandising and marketing their products.







PART I



Products



Products manufactured or distributed by our Residential Furnishings groups include:



Bedding Group

•Innersprings (sets of steel coils, bound together, that form the core of a mattress)

•Wire forms for mattress foundations



Furniture Group

•Steel mechanisms and hardware (enabling furniture to recline, tilt, swivel, rock and elevate) for reclining chairs and sleeper sofas

•Springs and seat suspensions for chairs, sofas and loveseats

•Steel tubular seat frames

•Bed frames, ornamental beds, and “top-of-bed” accessories

•Power foundations



Fabric & Carpet Underlay Group

•Structural fabrics for mattresses, residential furniture and industrial uses

•Carpet underlay materials (bonded scrap foam, felt, rubber and prime foam)

•Geo components (synthetic fabrics and various other products used in ground stabilization, drainage protection, erosion and weed control, as well as
silt fencing)



Customers



Most of our Residential Furnishings customers are
manufacturers of finished bedding products (mattresses and foundations) or upholstered furniture for residential use. We also sell many products, including ornamental beds, bed frames, power foundations, carpet underlay, and top-of-bed accessories,
directly to retailers and distributors. We sell geo components products primarily to dealers, contractors, landscapers, road construction companies and government agencies.



Commercial Fixturing & Components Segment







Our Fixture & Display
group designs, produces, installs and manages our customers’ store fixtures and point-of-purchase projects. Our Office Furniture Components group designs, manufactures, and distributes a wide range of engineered components targeted for the
office seating market.







PART I



Products



Products manufactured or distributed by our Commercial Fixturing & Components groups include:



Fixture & Display Group

•Custom-designed, full store fixture packages for retailers, including shelving, counters, showcases and garment racks

•Standardized shelving used by large retailers, grocery stores and discount chains

•Point-of-purchase displays



Office Furniture Components Group

•Bases, columns, back rests, casters and frames for office chairs, and control devices that allow office chairs to tilt, swivel and elevate



Customers



Customers of the Commercial Fixturing & Components
segment include:

•Retail chains and specialty shops

•Brand name marketers and distributors of consumer products

•Office, institutional and commercial furniture manufacturers



Industrial Materials Segment







We believe that the quality of
the Industrial Materials segment’s products and services, together with low cost, have made us the leading U.S. supplier of drawn steel wire and a major producer of welded steel tubing. Our Wire group operates a steel rod mill with an annual
output of approximately 500,000 tons, of which a substantial majority is used by our own wire mills. We have six wire mills that supply virtually all the wire consumed by our other domestic businesses. Our Tubing group operates two major plants that
also supply nearly all of our internal needs for welded steel tubing. In addition to supporting our internal requirements, the Industrial Materials segment supplies many external customers with wire and tubing products.







PART I



Products



Products manufactured or distributed by our Industrial Materials groups include:



Wire Group

•Steel rod

•Drawn wire

•Steel billets

•Fabricated wire products



Tubing Group

•Welded steel tubing

•Fabricated tube components



Customers



We use about half of our wire output and about one-quarter of our welded steel tubing output to manufacture our own products. For example,
we use our wire and steel tubing to make:

•Bedding and furniture components

•Motion furniture mechanisms

•Commercial fixtures, point-of-purchase displays and shelving

•Automotive seat components and frames



The Industrial Materials segment also has a diverse group of external customers, including:

•Bedding and furniture makers

•Automotive seating manufacturers

•Lawn and garden equipment manufacturers

•Mechanical spring makers

•Waste recyclers and waste removal businesses

•Medical supply businesses



Specialized Products Segment











PART I



Our Specialized Products segment designs, produces and sells components for automotive
seating, specialized machinery and equipment, and service van interiors. Our established design capability and focus on product development have made us a leader in innovation. We also benefit from our broad geographic presence and our internal
production of key raw materials and components.



Products



Products manufactured or distributed by our
Specialized Products groups include:



Automotive Group

•Manual and power lumbar support and massage systems for automotive seating

•Seat suspension systems

•Automotive control cables, such as shift cables, cruise-control cables, seat belt cables, accelerator cables, seat control cables and latch release
cables

•Low voltage motors and actuation assemblies

•Formed metal and wire components for seat frames



Machinery Group

•Full range of quilting machines for mattress covers

•Machines used to shape wire into various types of springs

•Industrial sewing/finishing machines



Commercial Vehicle Products Group

•Van interiors (the racks, shelving and cabinets installed in service vans)

•Docking stations that mount computers and other electronic equipment inside vehicles

•Specialty trailers used by telephone, cable and utility companies



Customers



Our primary customers for the Specialized Products segment include:

•Automobile seating manufacturers

•Bedding manufacturers

•Telecom, cable, home service and delivery companies



Strategic Direction



In November 2007 we outlined significant changes to the Company’s strategy. We adopted a new primary
financial metric, Total Shareholder Return,(TSR = (Change in Stock Price + Dividends Received) / Beginning Stock Price), changed the priorities for use of cash, adopted role-based portfolio management and implemented more rigorous strategic
planning. Our goals were to: i) divest or fix low performing businesses, ii) return more cash to investors, iii) improve margins and returns on the businesses we keep, and iv) then begin to carefully and conservatively grow the Company (at 4-5% of
annual revenue).







PART I



We have made significant progress over the past three years. The divestitures were
largely complete by the end of 2008; margins and returns have improved; and we have returned much of our excess cash to our shareholders through higher dividends and share repurchases. Our focus now is two-part: i) continue improving margins, and
ii) begin laying the groundwork for long-term 4-5% growth.



Some of the activities associated with the change in strategy led to asset impairment and restructuring costs during the past three years. For information related to those costs, see Note C on
page 86 and Note D on page 90 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Key Financial Metric



TSR is the primary financial metric we use to monitor performance. Our goal is to achieve TSR in the top 1/3 of the S&P 500, over the long term. For the three-year period ended December 31, 2010
we generated TSR of 16% per year, on average, which places us in the top 8% of the S&P 500.



We employ four key levers to achieve TSR: i) revenue growth, ii) margin expansion, iii) dividends, and iv) share repurchases. In 2008,
dividends and stock buyback largely drove our TSR; during 2009, we benefited significantly from margin improvement; and in 2010, revenue growth (from improved market demand) boosted TSR. We expect that this balanced approach will generate
consistently higher TSR.



Consistent with the
change in our strategy, we modified some of our incentive plans to emphasize the importance of TSR. Beginning in January 2008, we introduced a new performance incentive for senior executives based solely on 3-year TSR relative to a group of 320
peers. We also modified business unit bonuses to give more importance to achieving higher returns on the assets under their direct control.



More Cash to Shareholders



The strategic changes have increased available cash. We expect to continue returning much of this cash to shareholders through dividends
and share repurchases.



During the past three
years, we generated approximately $1.8 billion of cash flow from operations and divestitures. Furthermore, as anticipated, since 2007 we’ve reduced combined annual spending for acquisitions and capital expenditures by over 70% (to $73 million
in 2010).



Since late 2007, we have raised
quarterly dividends by 50%, from $.18 per share to $.27 per share currently. During the past three years, we have also spent over $600 million to repurchase 33 million shares of our stock, which reduced outstanding shares by approximately 13%.
In 2010, we repurchased over 6 million shares at an average per share price of $21.64 (and issued 4 million shares through employee benefit plans) (most of these shares are purchased by employees in lieu of cash compensation).







PART I



Portfolio Management



We manage our business units as a portfolio, with different
roles (Grow, Core, Fix, Divest) for each business unit based upon competitive advantages, strategic position, and financial health. We undergo a rigorous strategic planning process, in part to assess each business unit’s portfolio role.
Business units in the Grow category should provide avenues for profitable growth in competitively advantaged positions. Core business units are expected to enhance productivity, maintain market share, and generate cash flow from operations while
using minimal capital. Business units in the Fix category will be given a limited time in which to significantly improve performance. Finally, a few small business units (or portions of business units) are considered non-strategic, and may be
divested as the M&A market recovers and allows for reasonable sales prices.



To remain in the portfolio, business units are expected to consistently generate after-tax returns in excess of the Company’s cost of capital. Each business unit has opportunity to improve, and may
employ a variety of means to achieve higher returns including trimming expenses, introducing new products, improving productivity, adopting more disciplined pricing, reducing working capital, and consolidating assets. Business units that fail to
consistently generate after-tax returns in excess of our cost of capital will move to the Fix or Divest categories.



During 2009 and 2010 significant effort went into improving margins. EBIT margin for 2009 was 7.5% on $3.06 billion of sales while EBIT
margin for 2010 was 8.6% on sales of $3.36 billion. Gross margin for 2009 and 2010 was 20.6% and 19.5%, respectively.



Disciplined Growth



Consistent with the plan we unveiled in 2007, we are now beginning to devote resources to the next phase of our strategy. We aim to
eventually achieve consistent, long-term, profitable growth of 4-5% annually. To achieve this goal, we will need to supplement the approximate 2%-3% growth that our markets typically produce (in normal economic times) with two additional areas of
opportunity. First, we must enhance our success rate at developing and commercializing innovative new products within markets in which we already enjoy strong competitive positions. Second, we need to uncover new growth platforms; opportunities in
markets new to us, and in which Leggett would possess a competitive advantage.



Both efforts are receiving significant management attention and priority, and we are making progress in both areas. We have had success this past year with new products introduced in our office
components, automotive, and home furniture components businesses. Though individually those were modest successes, collectively they added to sales and earnings growth in 2010. In addition, we have instituted some of the processes that need to be in
place to identify new market opportunities. Successful development of new growth platforms will take time; we do not anticipate significant contributions from these activities in the near term.







PART I



Acquisitions and Divestitures



Historically, our typical acquisition targets have been
small, private, profitable, entrepreneurial companies that manufacture goods either within our existing product lines or “one step away” from those product lines and complementary to our existing businesses. As part of our change in
strategic direction, we expect fewer and more strategic acquisitions to be completed. All acquisitions should create value by enhancing TSR; they should have clear strategic rationale and sustainable competitive advantage in attractive markets.



Acquisitions



We have had no significant acquisitions in the last three
years. For further information about acquisitions, see Note R on page 118 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Divestitures



During the past three years we divested seven businesses (as a part of our strategic realignment), including the entire Aluminum Products
segment, for total after-tax cash proceeds of $433 million. The largest portion of these proceeds ($408 million) related to the divestitures completed in 2008.



2010 Divestiture



We divested the Storage Products business unit (previously in the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment) in the third quarter
of 2010. No significant gains or losses were realized on the sale of this business unit. Storage Products is reflected as a discontinued operation with 2010 revenue of approximately $37 million.



2009 Divestiture



We divested the Coated Fabrics business unit (previously in
the Residential Furnishings segment) in the third quarter of 2009. No significant gains or losses were realized on the sale of this unit. Coated Fabrics is reflected as a discontinued operation with 2009 revenue of approximately $12 million.



2008 Divestitures



We divested five significant businesses in 2008 with
annualized sales of approximately $780 million. The largest divestiture (approximately $485 million in annualized revenue) was the Aluminum Products segment which was sold in July 2008. We also sold four other business units in 2008 – Wood
Products and Fibers (previously in the Residential Furnishings segment); Plastics (previously in the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment); and the dealer portion of Commercial Vehicle Products (previously in the Specialized Products
segment). All of these businesses have been classified as discontinued operations.







PART I



For further information about divestitures and discontinued operations, see Note B on
page 84 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Segment
Financial Information



For information about
sales to external customers, sales by product line, earnings before interest and taxes, and total assets of each of our segments, refer to Note F on page 94 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Foreign Operations



The percentages of our external sales from continuing operations related to products manufactured outside the
United States for the previous three years are shown below.







Our international operations
are principally located in China, Europe, Canada and Mexico. The products we make in these countries primarily consist of:



China

•Innersprings for mattresses

•Recliner mechanisms and bases for upholstered furniture

•Formed wire for upholstered furniture

•Retail store fixtures and gondola shelving

•Office furniture components, including chair bases and casters

•Formed metal products, lumbar and seat suspension systems for automotive seating

•Cables and small electric motors used in lumbar systems for automotive seating

•Machinery and replacement parts for machines used in the bedding industry



Europe

•Innersprings for mattresses

•Wire and wire products







PART I



•Lumbar and seat suspension systems for automotive seating

•Machinery and equipment designed to manufacture innersprings for mattresses and other bedding-related components

•Design and distribution of point-of-purchase displays for retailers



Canada

•Innersprings for mattresses

•Fabricated wire for the bedding, furniture and automotive industries

•Chair bases, table bases and office chair controls

•Lumbar supports for automotive seats

•Wire and steel storage systems and racks for the interior of service vans and utility vehicles



Mexico

•Innersprings and fabricated wire for the bedding industry

•Retail shelving and point-of-purchase displays

•Automotive control cable systems and seating components

•Shafts for the appliance industry



Our international expansion strategy is to locate our operations where we believe demand for components is growing. Also, in instances
where our customers move the production of their finished products overseas, we have located facilities nearby to supply them more efficiently.



Our international operations face the risks associated with any operation in a foreign country. These risks include:

•Foreign currency fluctuation

•Foreign legal systems that make it difficult to protect intellectual property and enforce contract rights

•Credit risks

•Increased costs due to tariffs, customs and shipping rates

•Potential problems obtaining raw materials, and disruptions related to the availability of electricity and transportation during times of crisis or war

•Nationalization of private enterprises

•Political instability in certain countries



Our Specialized Products segment, which derives 77% of its trade sales from foreign operations, is particularly subject to the above
risks. These and other foreign-related risks could result in cost increases, reduced profits, the inability to carry on our foreign operations and other adverse effects on our business.







PART I



Geographic Areas of Operation



We have production, warehousing and distribution facilities
in countries around the world. Below is a list of countries where we have facilities associated with continuing operations:



ResidentialFurnishingsCommercialFixturing &ComponentsIndustrialMaterialsSpecializedProductsNorth AmericaCanadannnMexiconnnUnited StatesnnnnEuropeAustrianBelgiumnCroatiannDenmarknGermanynHungarynItalynnSwitzerlandnUnited KingdomnnnSouth AmericaUruguaynBrazilnAsia / PacificAustralianChinannnIndianSouth KoreanAfricaSouth African



For further information concerning our external sales from continuing operations related to products manufactured outside the United States and our tangible long-lived assets outside the United States,
refer to Note F on page 94 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.







PART I



Sales by Product Line



The following table shows our approximate percentage of
external sales from continuing operations by classes of similar products for the last three years:



Product Line201020092008Bedding Group19%21%19%Furniture Group181816Fabric & Carpet Underlay Group151616Wire Group131214Fixture & Display Group111112Automotive Group1188Office Furniture Components Group555Commercial Vehicle Products Group344Machinery Group333Tubing Group223



Distribution of Products



In each of our segments, we sell and distribute our products primarily through our own sales personnel. However, many of our businesses have relationships and agreements with outside sales representatives
and distributors. We do not believe any of these agreements or relationships would, if terminated, have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or results of operations of the Company.



Raw Materials



The products we manufacture in continuing operations require a variety of raw materials. Among the most
important are:

•Various types of steel, including scrap, rod, wire, coil, sheet and angle iron

•Foam scrap

•Woven and non-woven fabrics



We supply our own raw materials for many of the products we make. For example, we produce steel rod that we make into steel wire, which we
then use to manufacture:

•Innersprings and foundations for mattresses

•Springs and seat suspensions for chairs and sofas

•Displays, shelving and racks for retailers

•Automotive seating components



We supply the majority of our steel rod requirements through our own rod mill. Our own wire drawing mills supply nearly all of our U.S.
requirements for steel wire. We also produce welded steel tubing both for our own consumption and for sale to external customers. In addition, we believe that worldwide supply sources are available for all the raw materials we use.



We have experienced volatility in raw material prices over
the past few years, most notably in steel. In most cases, the major changes (both increases and decreases) were







PART I



passed through to customers with selling price adjustments. Significant steel cost increases in 2008 were followed by significant cost decreases in 2009 as global economies weakened. In both
cases, we generally adjusted pricing to our customers to reflect the changes in commodity costs. In late 2009 and early 2010, steel costs increased, and again we implemented price increases to recover the majority of the higher costs. By the end of
2010, we were facing further inflation in steel costs, and announced and began implementing additional price increases in early 2011.



The degree to which we are able to mitigate or recover higher costs, should they occur, could influence our future earnings. Also, if raw
material costs decrease there may be downward pressure on selling prices, temporarily resulting in lower segment margins, as we consume higher cost inventories.



Higher raw material costs in recent years have led some of our customers to modify their product designs, changing the quantity and mix of
our components in their finished goods. In some cases, higher cost components have been replaced with lower cost components, causing us to shift production accordingly. This has primarily impacted profit margins in our Residential Furnishings and
Industrial Materials segments. We are responding by developing new products (including new types of innersprings, box springs and reclining chair mechanisms) that enable our customers to reduce their total costs, and in certain instances, provide
higher margin and profit contribution for our operations.



Customer
Concentration



We serve thousands of customers
worldwide, sustaining many long-term business relationships. In 2010, our largest customer accounted for approximately 6% of our consolidated revenues from continuing operations. Our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 22% of these
consolidated revenues. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company, as a whole, or on the respective segment in which the customer’s sales are reported, including our Residential Furnishings,
Commercial Fixturing & Components and Specialized Products segments.







PART I



Patents and Trademarks



The chart below shows the approximate number of patents
issued, patents in process, trademarks registered and trademarks in process held by our operations. No single patent or group of patents, or trademark or group of trademarks, is material to our continuing operations.







Some of our most significant
trademarks include:

•Semi-Flex®(boxspring components and foundations)

•Mira-Coil®, VertiCoil®, Lura-Flex®andSuperlastic®(mattress innersprings)

•Lifestyles™, S-cape®andAdjustables®by Leggett & Platt®(power foundations)

•Wall Hugger®(recliner chair mechanisms)

•Super Sagless®(motion and sofa sleeper mechanisms)

•No-Sag®(wire forms used in seating)

•Tack & Jump®andPattern Link®(quilting machines)

•Hanes®(fiber materials)

•Schukra®, Pullmaflex®andFlex-O-Lator®(automotive seating products)

•Spuhl®(mattress innerspring manufacturing machines)

•Gribetz™andPorter®(quilting and
sewing machines)

•Quietflex®andMasterack®(equipment and accessories for vans and trucks)



Research and Development



We maintain research, engineering and testing centers in Carthage, Missouri and do additional research and development work at many of our
other facilities. We are unable to calculate precisely the cost of research and development because the personnel involved in product and machinery development also spend portions of their time in other areas. However, we estimate the cost of
research and development associated with continuing operations ranged from $20 to $30 million per year in each of the last three years.







PART I



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 19,000 employees, of which roughly 13,600 were engaged in production. Of the 19,000,
approximately 8,700 were international employees (5,000 in China). Labor unions represented roughly 11% of our employees. We did not experience any material work stoppage related to contract negotiations with labor unions during 2010. Management is
not aware of any circumstances likely to result in a material work stoppage related to contract negotiations with labor unions during 2011. The chart below shows the approximate number of employees by segment.







As of December 31, 2009,
we had approximately 18,500 employees.



Competition



Many companies offer products that compete with those we
manufacture and sell. The number of competing companies varies by product line, but many of the markets for our products are highly competitive. We tend to attract and retain customers through product quality, innovation, competitive pricing and
customer service. Many of our competitors try to win business primarily on price but, depending upon the particular product, we experience competition based on quality, performance and availability as well.



We believe we are the largest U.S. manufacturer, in terms of
revenue, of the following:

•Components for residential furniture and bedding

•Carpet underlay

•Power foundations

•Components for office furniture

•Drawn steel wire

•Automotive seat support and lumbar systems

•Bedding industry machinery for wire forming, sewing and quilting







PART I



We continue to face pressure from foreign competitors as some of our customers source a
portion of their components and finished products offshore. In addition to lower labor rates, foreign competitors benefit (at times) from lower raw material costs. They may also benefit from currency factors and more lenient regulatory climates
related to safety and environmental matters. We typically remain price competitive, even versus many foreign manufacturers, as a result of our highly efficient operations, low labor content, vertical integration in steel and wire, and large scale
purchasing of raw materials and commodities. However, we have also reacted to foreign competition in certain cases, by selectively adjusting prices, and by developing new proprietary products that help our customers reduce total costs. In instances
where our customers move production of their finished products overseas, our operations must be located nearby to supply them efficiently. We currently operate 10 facilities in China.



In late 2007, we filed an antidumping suit related to innerspring imports from China, South Africa and Vietnam.
We saw a distinct decline in unfair imports during 2008 after the antidumping investigations began. As a result, we regained market share and performance in our Bedding group improved. The investigations were brought to a favorable conclusion in
early 2009. The current antidumping duty rates on innersprings from these countries are significant, ranging from 116% to 234%, and should remain in effect at least until early 2014. Imported innersprings from these countries are now supposed to be
sold at fair prices, however the duties on certain innersprings are being evaded by various means including shipping the goods through a third country and falsely identifying the country of origin. Leggett, along with several U.S. manufacturers of
products with active antidumping or antidumping/countervailing duty orders, formed a coalition and are working with Members of Congress, the U.S. Department of Commerce, and U.S. Customs and Border Protection to seek stronger enforcement of existing
antidumping and/or countervailing duty orders.



We
experienced a temporary loss of market share during the last half of 2010 as certain of our customers purchased a portion of their innerspring requirements from European suppliers. The opportunity to buy these components at a lower price resulted
from a combination of factors that benefited European suppliers in the early summer: i) the weaker Euro, ii) temporarily lower raw material costs in Europe, and iii) greater excess capacity as a result of last summer’s economic turmoil in
Europe. Because of the slowing of consumer demand for mattresses in the last half of 2010, it took longer for these imported products to be consumed, but by year-end, we had regained the majority of the volume.



Seasonality



As a diversified manufacturer, we generally have not
experienced significant seasonality. The timing of acquisitions, dispositions, and economic factors in any year can distort the underlying seasonality in certain of our businesses. Historically, for the Company as a whole, the second and third
quarters typically have proportionately greater sales, while the first and fourth quarters are generally lower. However, in 2010, sales in the first and second quarters were higher on strength in our Residential Furnishings and Commercial
Fixturing & Components segments. Consumer demand for bedding and furniture was stronger during the first half of the year, we believe in part due to larger income tax refunds and home purchasing incentives. Demand for store fixtures was
also







PART I



stronger in the first half of the year, as retailers increased store remodeling activity (a larger portion of which occurred in the earlier part of the year) and decreased new store construction.
Notwithstanding 2010, our four segments tend to experience seasonality as follows:



•Residential Furnishings:typically has the strongest sales in the second and third quarters due to increased consumer demand for bedding and
furniture during those periods.

•Commercial Fixturing & Components:generally has heavy third quarter sales of its store fixture products, with the first and fourth
quarters normally lower. This aligns with the retail industry’s normal construction cycle—the opening of new stores and completion of remodeling projects in advance of the holiday season.

•Industrial Materials:minimal variation in sales throughout the year.

•Specialized Products:relatively little quarter-to-quarter variation in sales, although the automotive business is typically somewhat heavier in
the second and fourth quarters of the year and lower in the third quarter due to model changeovers and plant shutdowns in the automobile industry during the summer.



Backlog



Our customer relationships and our manufacturing and inventory practices do not create a material amount of backlog orders for any of our
segments. Production and inventory levels are geared primarily to the level of incoming orders and projected demand based on customer relationships.



Working Capital Items



For further information regarding working capital items, see the discussion of “Cash from Operations” in Item 7,
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on page 48.



Environmental Regulation



Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations related to the protection of the environment. We have policies intended to ensure that our operations are conducted in
compliance with applicable laws. While we cannot predict policy changes by various regulatory agencies, management expects that compliance with these laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, capital
expenditures, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.



The U.S. Congress has considered legislation to address climate change that is intended to reduce overall green house gas emissions, including carbon dioxide. Similar initiatives have also been pursued at
the state level. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has made a determination that green house gas emissions may be a threat to human health and the environment. It is uncertain if, when, and in what form, a mandatory carbon
dioxide emissions reduction program may be enacted either through legislation or regulation. However, if enacted, this type of program could materially







PART I



increase our operating costs, including costs of raw materials, transportation and electricity. In that event, our intent would be to raise prices in order to cover the cost increases.



Internet Access to Information



We routinely post information for investors to our website
(www.leggett.com) under the Investor Relations section. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are made available, free of charge, on our website as soon as
reasonably practicable after electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition to these reports, the Company’s Financial Code of Ethics, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as charters
for its Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors can be found on our website. Information contained on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Discontinued Operations



Several of our prior businesses are disclosed in our annual financial statements as discontinued operations
since (i) the operations and cash flows of the businesses were clearly distinguished and have been eliminated from our ongoing operations; (ii) the businesses have been disposed of; and (iii) we do not have any significant continuing
involvement in the operations of the businesses. The discontinued operations include:



•Aluminum Products segment.We divested this segment in July 2008. It produced and sold non-automotive aluminum, zinc and magnesium die castings,
and new and refurbished dies (also known as molds or tools) for all types and sizes of die casting machines. It also provided machining, coating, finishing, sub-assembly and other value-added services for die cast components. These products and
services were sold into various end markets.



•Wood Products unit, Fibers unit and the Coated Fabrics unit (each previously reported in the Residential Furnishings segment).



(i)We divested the Wood Products unit in the third quarter of 2008. It sold wood frames and cut-to-size dimension lumber to bedding manufacturers.

(ii)We divested the Fibers unit in the fourth quarter of 2008. It sold fiber cushioning material primarily to bedding and upholstered furniture manufacturers.

(iii)We divested the Coated Fabrics unit in the third quarter of 2009. It sold non-slip rug underlay and shelf liners primarily to retailers and distributors.



•Plastics unit and the Storage Products unit (each previously reported in the Commercial Fixturing & Components segment).



(i)The Plastics unit, which was divested in the third quarter of 2008, sold injection molded plastic components primarily for manufacturers of lawn care equipment and
power tools.

(ii)The Storage Products unit was divested in the third quarter of 2010. It sold storage racks and carts used in the food service and healthcare industries.







PART I



•An automotive seating components operation and the dealer portion of the Commercial Vehicle Products unit (each previously reported in the
Specialized Products segment).



(i)The automotive seating components operation, which we divested in the first quarter of 2008, sold welded assemblies, and wire and tubular frames for automotive seating.

(ii)We divested the dealer portion of the Commercial Vehicle Products unit in the third quarter of 2008. It sold truck bodies for cargo vans, flatbed trucks, service trucks
and dump trucks primarily to end-users of light-to-medium duty commercial trucks.



For further information on discontinued operations, see Note B on page 84 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



