Item 1A.Risk Factors

We face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. Our business, results of operations and financial
condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below.

While we describe each risk separately, some
of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below. Also, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not
presently known to us, or that we currently do not consider significant, could also potentially impair, and have a material adverse effect on, our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our business is highly dependent on sales volume. Global vehicle sales have declined significantly from their peak levels and there is
no assurance that the global automobile market will recover in the near future or that it will not suffer a significant further downturn.

Our business and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume, as demonstrated by the effect of sharp declines in vehicle sales in the U.S. since 2007 and globally since 2008 on our business.
Vehicle sales in the U.S. have fallen significantly on an annualized basis since their peak in 2007, and sales globally have shown steep declines on an annualized basis since their peak in January 2008. The deteriorating economic and market
conditions that have driven the drop in vehicle sales, including declines in real estate and equity values, rising unemployment, tightened credit markets, depressed consumer confidence and weak housing markets, may not improve significantly during
2010 and may continue past 2010 and could deteriorate further. Although vehicle sales began to recover in the last quarter of 2009 and we expect that they will continue to recover in 2010, there is no assurance that any recovery in vehicle sales
will continue. Further, sales volumes may decline more severely or take longer to recover than we expect, and if they do, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected.

Our ability to attract a sufficient number of consumers to consider our vehicles particularly our new products, including cars and
crossover vehicles, is essential.

Our ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to entice
consumers to consider our products when purchasing a new vehicle. The automotive industry, particularly in the U.S., is very competitive and our competitors have been very successful in persuading customers that previously purchased our products to
purchase their vehicles instead as is reflected by our loss of market







GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



share over the past three years. We believe that this is due, in part, to a negative public perception of our products in relation to those of some of our competitors. Changing this perception
will be critical. If we are unable to change public perception of our company and products, particularly our new products, including cars and crossovers, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

Our continued ability to achieve cost reductions and to realize production efficiencies for our automotive operations
is critical to our ability to return to profitability.

We are continuing to implement a number of cost reduction and
productivity improvement initiatives in our automotive operations, including substantial restructuring initiatives for our North American operations. Our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these restructuring
initiatives throughout our automotive operations, especially in North America. In addition, while some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our expense for
pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our structural costs. Reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on increasing
advertising and our belief that engineering expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety, and customer satisfaction of our vehicles are likely to increase.

The ability of our new executive management team to quickly learn the automotive industry and lead our company will be critical to our ability to succeed.

During the last six months we have substantially changed our executive management team. We have appointed a new Chief Executive Officer and
a new Chief Financial Officer, both of whom have no outside automotive industry experience. We have also promoted from within many new senior officers in areas ranging from marketing to engineering. It is important to our success that the new
members of the executive management team quickly understand the automotive industry and that our senior officers quickly adapt and excel in their new senior management roles. If they are unable to do so, and as a result are unable to provide
effective guidance and leadership, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.

Failure
of our suppliers, due to difficult economic conditions affecting our industry, to provide us with the systems, components and parts that we need to manufacture our automotive products and operate our business could result in a disruption in our
operations and have a material adverse effect on our business.

We rely on many suppliers to provide us with the
systems, components and parts that we need to manufacture our automotive products and operate our business. In recent years, a number of these suppliers have experienced severe financial difficulties and solvency problems, and some have sought
relief under the Bankruptcy Code or similar reorganization laws. This trend intensified in 2009 due to the combination of general economic weakness, sharply declining vehicle sales and tightened credit availability that has affected the automotive
industry generally. Suppliers may encounter difficulties in obtaining credit or may receive an opinion from their independent public accountants regarding their financial statements that includes a statement expressing substantial doubt about their
ability to continue as a going concern, which could trigger defaults under their financings or other agreements or impede their ability to raise new funds.

When comparable situations have occurred in the past, suppliers have attempted to increase their prices, pass through increased costs, alter payment terms or seek other relief. In instances where
suppliers have not been able to generate sufficient additional revenues or obtain the additional financing they need to continue their operations, either through private sources or government funding, which may not be available, some have been
forced to reduce their output, shut down their operations or file for bankruptcy protection. Such actions would likely increase our costs, create challenges to meeting our quality objectives and in some cases make it difficult for us to continue
production of certain vehicles. To the extent we take steps in such cases to help key suppliers remain in business, our liquidity would be adversely affected. It may also be difficult to find a replacement for certain suppliers without significant
delay.







GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



Increase in cost, disruption of supply or shortage of raw
materials could materially harm our business.

We use various raw materials in our business including steel,
non-ferrous metals such as aluminum and copper and precious metals such as platinum and palladium. The prices for these raw materials fluctuate depending on market conditions. In recent years, freight charges and raw material costs increased
significantly. Substantial increases in the prices for our raw materials increase our operating costs and could reduce our profitability if we cannot recoup the increased costs through vehicle prices. In addition, some of these raw materials, such
as corrosion-resistant steel, are only available from a limited number of suppliers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. An increase in the cost or a sustained
interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials, which may be caused by a deterioration of our relationships with suppliers or by events such as labor strikes, could negatively affect our net revenues and profitability to a
material extent.

The pace of introduction and market acceptance of new vehicles is important to our success and the
frequency of new vehicle introductions may be materially adversely affected by reductions in capital expenditures.

Our competitors have introduced new and improved vehicle models designed to meet consumer expectations, and will continue to do so. Our profit margins, sales volumes and market shares may decrease if we are unable to produce models that
compare favorably to these competing models. If we are unable to produce new and improved vehicle models on a basis competitive with the models introduced by our competitors, demand for our vehicles may be materially adversely affected. Further, the
pace of our development and introduction of new and improved vehicles depends on our ability to successfully implement improved technological innovations in design, engineering and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment. Any
capital expenditure cuts in this area that we may determine to implement in the future to reduce costs and conserve cash could reduce our ability to develop and implement improved technological innovations, which may materially reduce demand for our
vehicles.

Inadequate cash flow could materially adversely affect our business operations in the future.

We will require substantial liquidity to implement long-term cost savings and restructuring plans, satisfy our
obligations under the UST Credit Agreement, continue capital spending to support product programs and development of advanced technologies, and meet scheduled term debt and lease maturities, in each case as contemplated by our business plan. If our
cash levels approach the minimum cash levels necessary to support our normal business operations, we may be forced to borrow additional funds at rates that may not be favorable, curtail capital spending, and reduce research and development and other
programs that are important to the future success of our business. If this were to happen, our need for cash would be intensified.

Although we believe that the funding we received in connection with our formation and our purchase of substantially all of MLC’s assets provides us with sufficient liquidity to operate our business in the near-term, our ability to
maintain adequate liquidity in the medium- and long-term will depend significantly on the volume, mix and quality of vehicle sales and the continuing curtailment of operating expenses. Our liquidity needs are sensitive to changes in each of these
and other factors.

As part of our business plan, we have reduced compensation for our most highly paid executives and
have reduced the number of our management and non-management salaried employees, and these actions may materially adversely affect our ability to hire and retain salaried employees.

As part of the cost reduction initiatives in our business plan, and pursuant to the direction of the Special Master for TARP Executive
Compensation we have imposed salary reductions on our most highly paid executives, and reduced benefits to a level that we believe is significantly lower than offered by other major corporations. Furthermore, the UST Credit Agreement restricts the
compensation that we can provide to our top executives and prohibits certain types of compensation or benefits for any employees. At the same time, we have substantially decreased the number of salaried employees so that the workload is shared among
fewer employees and in general the demands on each salaried employee are increased. Companies in similar situations have experienced significant difficulties in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees, particularly in competitive specialties.
Given our compensation structure and increasing job demands, there is no assurance that we will be able to hire and retain the employees whose expertise is required to execute our business plan while at the same time developing and producing
vehicles that will stimulate demand for our products.







GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



Our plan to reduce the number of our retail channels and
core brands and to consolidate our dealer network is likely to reduce our total sales volume, may not create the cost savings we anticipate and is likely to result in restructuring costs that may materially adversely affect our results of
operations.

Our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various European countries, but we may
not succeed in doing so, and that could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Continued limited availability of adequate financing on acceptable
terms through GMAC or other sources to our customers and dealers, distributors and suppliers to enable them to continue their business relationships with us could materially adversely affect our business.

Our customers and dealers require financing to purchase a significant percentage of our global vehicle sales. Historically, GMAC has
provided most of the financing for our dealers and a significant amount of financing for our customers. Due to conditions in credit markets particularly later in 2008, retail customers and dealers have experienced severe difficulty in accessing the
credit markets. As a







GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



result, the number of vehicles sold or leased declined rapidly in the second half of 2008, with lease contract volume dropping significantly by the end of 2008. This had a significant effect on
Old GM vehicle sales overall, since many of its competitors have captive finance subsidiaries that were better capitalized than GMAC during 2008 and 2009 and thus were able to offer consumers subsidized financing and leasing offers.

Similarly, the reduced availability of GMAC wholesale dealer financing (particularly in the second half of 2008), the increased cost of such
financing and a limited availability of other sources of dealer financing due to the general weakness of the credit market, has caused and may continue to cause dealers to modify their plans to purchase vehicles from us.

Because of recent modifications to our commercial agreements with GMAC, GMAC no longer is subject to contractual wholesale funding
commitments or retail underwriting targets. Therefore, there can be no assurance that GMAC will continue to provide adequate funding at competitive rates to ensure that financing for purchases of our vehicles by our dealers and customers will be
consistent with the funding levels and competitive rates that have historically been available from GMAC.

The UST (or
its designee) owns a controlling interest in us and its interests may differ from those of our other stockholders.

The UST beneficially owns a majority of our common stock on a fully diluted basis. As a result of its majority stock ownership interest and its role as a significant lender to us, the UST is able to exercise significant influence and
control over our business if it elects to do so. This includes the ability to have significant influence and control over matters brought for a shareholder vote. To the extent the UST elects to exercise such influence or control over us, its
interests (as a government entity) may differ from those of our other stockholders and it may influence matters including:



•The selection and tenure and compensation of our management;



•Our business strategy and product offerings;



•Our relationship with our employees, unions and other constituencies; and



•Our financing activities, including the issuance of debt and equity securities.

In the future we may also become subject to new and additional laws and government regulations regarding various aspects of our business as
a result of participation in the TARP program and the U.S. government’s ownership in (and financing of) our business. These regulations could make it more difficult for us to compete with other companies that are not subject to similar
regulations. Refer to “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance — Stockholders Agreement” for further information.

The UST Credit Agreement and VEBA Note Agreement contain significant representations and affirmative and negative covenants that may restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to take
actions management believes are important to our long-term strategy.

The UST Credit Agreement and VEBA Note Agreement
contain representations and warranties, affirmative covenants requiring us to take certain actions and negative covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions. The affirmative covenants impose obligations on us with respect to, among
other things, financial and other reporting to the UST (including periodic confirmation of compliance with certain expense policies and executive privileges and compensation requirements), use of proceeds of asset sales, maintenance of facility
collateral and other property, payment of obligations, compliance with various restrictions on executive privileges and compensation and compliance with a corporate expense policy.

The negative covenants in the UST Credit Agreement generally apply to us and our U.S. subsidiaries that provided guarantees of our
obligations under that agreement and restrict us with respect to, among other things, granting liens, distributions on capital stock, amendments or waivers of certain documents and entering into new indebtedness.

Compliance with the representations, warranties and affirmative and negative covenants contained in the UST Credit Agreement and VEBA Note
Agreement could restrict our ability to take actions that management believes are important to our long-term







GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



strategy. If strategic transactions we wish to undertake are prohibited or inconsistent with, or detrimental to, our long-term viability, our ability to execute our long-term strategy could be
materially adversely affected. In addition, monitoring and certifying our compliance with the UST Credit Agreement and VEBA Note Agreement requires a high level of expense and management attention on a continuing basis.

Even though we have made significant modifications to our obligations to the New VEBA, we are still obligated to contribute a
significant amount of cash to fund the New VEBA in the future and cumulative dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock must be paid prior to any dividends or distributions to common stockholders.

Our pension funding obligations may increase significantly due to weak performance of financial markets and its effect on plan assets.

Our future funding obligations for our U.S. defined benefit pension plans qualified with the IRS depends upon the
future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in government laws and regulations. Our employee benefit
plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. Due to Old GM’s contributions to the plans and to the strong performance of these assets during prior periods, the U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans were
consistently overfunded from 2005 through 2007, which allowed Old GM to maintain a surplus without making additional contributions to the plans. However, due to significant declines in financial markets and a deterioration in the value of our plan
assets, as well as the coverage of additional retirees, including certain Delphi hourly employees, we may need to make significant contributions to our U.S. pension plans in 2013 and beyond. There is no assurance that interest rates will remain
constant or that our pension fund assets can earn our assumed rate of 8.5% annually, and our actual experience may be significantly more negative.

If the market values of the assets held by our pension plans decline, our pension expenses would increase and, as a result, could materially adversely affect our financial position. Decreases in interest
rates that are not offset by contributions and asset returns could also increase our obligations under such plans. In addition, if local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our pension plans outside the U.S., we could be
required to contribute more funds, which would negatively affect our cash flow.

Despite the formation of our new
Company, we continue to have indebtedness and other obligations. Our debt obligations together with our cash needs may require us to seek additional financing, minimize capital expenditures or seek to refinance some or all of our debt.

Despite the formation of our new Company, we continue to have indebtedness and other obligations. Our current and
future indebtedness and other obligations could have several important consequences. For example, it could:



•Require us to dedicate a larger portion of our cash flow from operations than we currently do to the payment of principal and interest on our
indebtedness and other obligations, which will reduce the funds available for other purposes such as product development;







GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



•Make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;



•Make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions;



•Limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures;



•Limit our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;



•Make us more vulnerable to any continuing downturn in general economic conditions and adverse developments in our business; and



•Reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.

Future liquidity needs may require us to seek additional financing, or minimize capital expenditures. There is no assurance that any of
these alternatives would be available to us on satisfactory terms or on terms that would not require us to renegotiate the terms and conditions of our existing debt agreements.

Our planned investment in new technology in the future is significant and may not be funded at anticipated levels, and, even if funded
at anticipated levels, may not result in successful vehicle applications.

We intend to invest significant capital
resources to support our products and to develop new technology. In addition, we are committed to invest heavily in alternative fuel and advanced propulsion technologies between 2010 and 2012, largely to support our planned expansion of hybrid and
electric vehicles, consistent with our announced objective of being recognized as the industry leader in fuel efficiency. Moreover, if our future operations do not provide us with the liquidity we anticipate, we may be forced to reduce, delay or
cancel our planned investments in new technology.

In some cases, the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen
fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by suppliers. For example, we have announced that we intend to produce by November 2010 the Chevrolet
Volt, an electric car, which requires battery technology that has not yet proven to be commercially viable. There can be no assurance that these advances will occur in a timely or feasible way, that the funds that we have budgeted for these purposes
will be adequate or that we will be able to establish our right to these technologies. Moreover, our competitors and others are pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies, in some cases with more money available, and there can be
no assurance that they will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage.

New laws, regulations or policies of governmental organizations regarding increased fuel economy requirements and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones, may have a
significant effect on how we do business.

We are affected significantly by governmental regulations that can increase
costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. We anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the costs and changes to our product lineup to comply with them, will increase significantly in the
future. In the U.S. and Europe, for example, governmental regulation is primarily driven by concerns about the environment (including greenhouse gas emissions), vehicle safety, fuel economy and energy security. These government regulatory
requirements could significantly affect our plans for global product development and may result in substantial costs including civil penalties. They may also result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect
revenue.

CAFE provisions in the EISA mandate fuel economy standards beginning in the 2011 model year that would increase to
at least 35 mpg by 2020 on a combined car and truck fleet basis, a 40% increase over current levels. In addition, California is implementing a program to regulate vehicle greenhouse gas emissions (AB 1493 Rules), and therefore will require
increased fuel economy. This California program has standards currently established for the 2009 model year through the 2016 model year. Thirteen additional states and the Province of Quebec have also adopted the California greenhouse gas standards.







GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



On May 19, 2009 President Obama announced his intention for
the federal government to implement a harmonized federal program to regulate fuel economy and greenhouse gases. He directed the EPA and the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to work together to create standards through a joint rulemaking for
control of emissions of greenhouse gases and for fuel economy. In the first phase, these standards would apply to passenger cars, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger vehicles built in model years 2012 through 2016. The CARB has agreed that
compliance with EPA’s greenhouse gas standards will be deemed compliance with the California greenhouse gas standards for the 2012 through 2016 model years. EPA and DOT issued their final rule to implement this new federal program on April 1,
2010. We have committed to work with EPA, the DOT, the states and other stakeholders in support of a strong national program to reduce oil consumption and address global climate change.

We are committed to meeting or exceeding these regulatory requirements, and our product plan of record projects compliance with the
anticipated federal program through the 2016 model year. We expect that to comply with these standards we will be required to sell a significant volume of hybrid or electrically powered vehicles throughout the U.S., as well as implement new
technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost levels. There is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such technologies at a competitive price, or that our customers will purchase
such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory programs.

In addition, the EU passed
legislation in December 2008 to begin regulating vehicle carbon dioxide emissions beginning in 2012. The legislation sets a target of a fleet average of 95 grams per kilometer for 2020, with the requirements for each manufacturer based on the weight
of the vehicles it sells. Additional measures have been proposed or adopted in Europe to regulate features such as tire rolling resistance, vehicle air conditioners, tire pressure monitors, gear shift indicators and others. At the national level, 16
EU Member States have adopted some form of carbon dioxide-based vehicle taxation system, which could result in specific market requirements for us to introduce technology earlier than is required for compliance with the EU emissions standards.

Other governments around the world, such as Canada, South Korea and China, are also creating new policies to address these
same societal issues. As in the U.S., these government policies could significantly affect our plans for product development. Due to these regulations we could be subject to sizable civil penalties or have to restrict product offerings drastically
to remain in compliance. Additionally, the regulations will result in substantial costs, which could be difficult to pass through to our customers, and could result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which could
affect our operations, including facility closings, reduced employment, increased costs and loss of revenue.

We may be
unable to qualify for federal funding for our advanced technology vehicle programs under Section 136 of the EISA or may not be selected to participate in the program.

The U.S. Congress provided the DOE with $25.0 billion in funding to make direct loans to eligible applicants for the costs of re-equipping,
expanding, and establishing manufacturing facilities in the U.S. to produce advanced technology vehicles and components for these vehicles. Old GM submitted three applications for Section 136 Loans aggregating $10.3 billion to support its
advanced technology vehicle programs prior to July 2009. Based on the findings of the President’s Designee under the U.S. Treasury Loan Agreement in March 2009, the DOE determined that Old GM did not meet the viability requirements for
Section 136 Loans.

On July 10, 2009 we purchased certain assets of Old GM pursuant to Section 363 of the
Bankruptcy Code, including the rights to the loan applications submitted to the Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing Incentive Program (ATVMIP). Further, we submitted a fourth application in August 2009. Subsequently, the DOE advised us to
resubmit a consolidated application including all the four applications submitted earlier and also the Electric Power Steering project acquired from Delphi in October 2009. We submitted the consolidated application in October 2009, which requested
an aggregate amount of $14.4 billion of Section 136 Loans. Ongoing product portfolio updates and project modifications requested from the DOE have the potential to reduce the maximum loan amount. To date, the DOE has announced that it would
provide approximately $8.3 billion in Section 136 Loans to Ford Motor Company, Nissan Motor Company, Tesla Motors, Inc., Fisker Automotive, Inc., and Tenneco Inc. There can be no assurance that we will qualify for any remaining loans or receive
any such loans even if we qualify.







GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



A significant amount of our operations are conducted by
joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit.

Many of our operations, particularly in emerging
markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as Shanghai GM. In joint ventures we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do. In general, joint
ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for
sharing information and making decisions. In joint ventures, we are required to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be materially adversely
affected. In addition, the benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures.

Shortages of and volatility in the price of oil have caused and may continue to cause diminished profitability due to shifts in
consumer vehicle demand.

Volatile oil prices in 2008 and 2009 contributed to weaker demand for some of Old GM’s
and our higher margin vehicles, especially our fullsize sport utility vehicles, as consumer demand shifted to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles, which provide lower profit margins and in recent years represented a smaller proportion of Old
GM’s and our sales volume in North America. Fullsize pick-up trucks, which are generally less fuel efficient than smaller vehicles, represented a higher percentage of Old GM’s and our North American sales during 2008 and 2009 compared to
the total industry average percentage of fullsize pick-up truck sales in those periods. Demand for traditional sport utility vehicles and vans also declined during the same periods. Any future increases in the price of oil in the U.S. or in our
other markets or any sustained shortage of oil could further weaken the demand for such vehicles, which could reduce our market share in affected markets, decrease profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business.

We could be materially adversely affected by changes or imbalances in foreign currency exchange and other rates.

Because we sell products and buy materials globally over a significant period of time, we are exposed to risks related to the effects of
changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates, which can have material adverse effects on our business. In recent years, the relative weakness of certain currencies, including the Japanese Yen, has provided
competitive advantages to certain of our competitors. While in recent months the Japanese Yen has strengthened significantly, its weakness in recent years has provided pricing advantages for vehicles and parts imported from Japan to markets with
more robust currencies like the U.S. and Western Europe. Moreover, the relative strength of other currencies has negatively affected our business. For example, before the current financial crisis, the relative weakness of the British Pound compared
to the Euro has had an adverse effect on our results of operations in Europe. In addition, in preparing our consolidated financial statements we translate our revenues and expenses outside the U.S. into U.S. Dollars using the average foreign
currency exchange rate for the period and the assets and liabilities using the foreign currency exchange rate at the balance sheet date. As a result, foreign currency fluctuations and the associated translations could have a material adverse effect
on our results of operation.

Our businesses outside the U.S. expose us to additional risks that may materially
adversely affect our business.

The majority of our vehicle sales are generated outside the U.S. We are pursuing
growth opportunities for our business in a variety of business environments outside the U.S. Operating in a large number of different regions and countries exposes us to political, economic and other risks as well as multiple foreign regulatory
requirements that are subject to change, including:



•Foreign regulations restricting our ability to sell our products in those countries;



•Differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions and safety;



•Differing labor regulations and union relationships;



•Consequences from changes in tax laws;







GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES



•Difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and



•Political and economic instability, natural calamities, war, and terrorism.

The effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our business.

New laws, regulations or policies of governmental organizations regarding safety standards, or changes in existing ones, may have a
significant negative effect on how we do business.

Our products must satisfy legal safety requirements. Meeting or
exceeding government-mandated safety standards is difficult and costly, because crashworthiness standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. While we are managing our
product development and production operations on a global basis to reduce costs and lead times, unique national or regional standards or vehicle rating programs can result in additional costs for product development, testing and manufacturing.
Governments often require the implementation of new requirements during the middle of a product cycle, which can be substantially more expensive than accommodating these requirements during the design of a new product.

The costs and effect on our reputation of product recalls could materially adversely affect our business.

From time to time, we recall our products to address performance, compliance or safety-related issues. The costs we incur in connection with
these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. In addition, product recalls can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if those recalls cause
consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. Any costs incurred or lost sales caused by future product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. Conversely, not issuing a recall or not issuing a recall on a timely
basis can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers for the same reasons as expressed above.

We have
determined that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting are currently not effective. The lack of effective internal controls could materially adversely affect our financial condition and ability to
carry out our business plan.

As discussed in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures”, our management team
for financial reporting, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. At
December 31, 2009, because of the inability to sufficiently test the effectiveness of remediated internal controls, they concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting were not effective.
Until we have been able to test the operating effectiveness of remediated internal controls, and ensure the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, it may materially adversely affect our ability to report accurately our financial
condition and results of operations in the future in a timely and reliable manner. In addition, although we continually review and evaluate internal control systems to allow management to report on the sufficiency of our internal controls, we cannot
assure you that we will not discover additional weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Any such additional weakness or failure to remediate the existing weakness could adversely affect our financial condition or ability to
comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and the requirements of the Company’s various financing agreements.

*  *  *  *  *  *  *

