ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General Description of Business

Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. (“we,” “our,” “us,” the “Company,” “Air
Products,” or “registrant”), a Delaware corporation originally founded in 1940, serves energy, electronics, chemicals, metals, and manufacturing customers globally with a unique portfolio of products, services, and solutions that
include atmospheric gases, process and specialty gases, performance materials, equipment, and services. The Company is the world’s largest supplier of hydrogen and helium and has built leading positions in growth markets such as refinery
hydrogen, semiconductor materials, natural gas liquefaction, and advanced coatings and adhesives. As used in this report, unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” the “Company,” or
“registrant” include controlled subsidiaries and predecessors of Air Products and its subsidiaries.

Financial Information about Segments

The Company manages its operations, assesses performance, and reports earnings under four business segments: Merchant Gases, Tonnage Gases, Electronics and Performance Materials, and Equipment and Energy. Financial
information concerning the Company’s four business segments appears in Note 25, Business Segment and Geographic Information, to the consolidated financial statements, included under Item 8, herein.

Narrative Description of Business by Segments

Merchant Gases

Merchant Gases sells atmospheric gases, such as oxygen, nitrogen, and argon (primarily recovered by the cryogenic distillation of air); process gases such as hydrogen, helium (purchased or refined from crude
helium), and carbon dioxide; specialty gases; temporary gas supply services; and equipment, throughout the world to customers in diversified industries, including metals, glass, electronics, chemical processing, food processing, healthcare, general
manufacturing, and petroleum and natural gas industries.

Merchant Gases supplies the following types of products:

Liquid bulk—Product is delivered in bulk (in liquid or gaseous form) by tanker or tube trailer and stored,
usually in its liquid state, in equipment designed and installed by the Company at the customer’s site for vaporizing into a gaseous state as needed. Liquid bulk sales are typically governed by three- to five-year contracts.

Packaged gases—Small quantities of product are delivered in either cylinders or dewars. The Company operates packaged
gas businesses in Europe, Asia, and Latin America. In the United States, the Company’s packaged gas business sells products only for the electronics and magnetic resonance imaging (principally helium) industries.

Small on-site plants—Customers receive product through small on-sites (cryogenic or noncryogenic generators), either by
a sale of gas contract or the sale of the equipment to the customer.

Electric power is the largest cost component in the
production of atmospheric gases—oxygen, nitrogen, and argon. Natural gas is also an energy source at a number of the Company’s Merchant Gases facilities. The Company mitigates energy and natural gas price increases through pricing formulas
and surcharges. Helium is primarily produced as a by-product of natural gas production. We purchase crude helium for purification and resale. During fiscal year 2013, we experienced shortages in helium supply due to industry-wide sourcing
shortfalls. No other significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of energy or raw materials during the year.

Merchant Gases competes worldwide against three global industrial gas companies: L’Air Liquide S.A.; Linde AG; and Praxair, Inc.; and several regional sellers (including Airgas, Inc., primarily with respect to
liquid bulk sales). Competition in industrial gases is based primarily on price, reliability of supply, and the development of industrial gas applications.

Merchant Gases sales constituted 40% of the Company’s consolidated sales in fiscal year 2013, 38% in fiscal year 2012, and 38% in fiscal year 2011. Sales of atmospheric gases (oxygen, nitrogen, and argon)
constituted approximately 19% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2013, 21% in fiscal year 2012, and 21% in fiscal year 2011.

The Company owns a 67.2% controlling interest in the outstanding shares of Indura S.A., an industrial gas company in South America which produces packaged and liquid bulk gases and sells related hard goods. Indura
S. A. is







accounted for as part of the Merchant Gases operating segment. The Merchant Gases segment also includes the Company’s share of the results of several joint ventures accounted for by the
equity method. The largest of these joint ventures operate in Mexico, Italy, South Africa, Saudi Arabia, India, and Thailand.

Tonnage Gases

Tonnage Gases provides hydrogen, carbon monoxide, nitrogen,
oxygen, and syngas (a hydrogen-carbon monoxide mixture) principally to the energy production and refining, chemical, and metallurgical industries worldwide. Gases are produced at large facilities located adjacent to customers’ facilities or by
pipeline systems from centrally located production facilities and are generally governed by contracts with 15- to 20-year terms. The Company is the world’s largest provider of hydrogen, which is used by oil refiners to facilitate the conversion
of heavy crude feedstock and lower the sulfur content of gasoline and diesel fuels to reduce smog and ozone depletion. The energy production industry uses nitrogen injection for enhanced recovery of oil and natural gas and oxygen for gasification.
The metallurgical industry uses nitrogen for inerting and oxygen for the manufacture of steel and certain nonferrous metals. The chemical industry uses hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, carbon monoxide, and syngas as feedstocks in the production of many
basic chemicals. The Company delivers product through pipelines from centrally located facilities in or near the United States Gulf Coast; Los Angeles, California; Alberta, Canada; Rotterdam, the Netherlands; United Kingdom; Western Belgium; Ulsan,
Korea; Nanjing, China; Tangshan, China; Kuan Yin, Taiwan; Singapore; and Camaçari, Brazil. The Company also owns less than controlling interests in pipelines located in Thailand and South Africa.

Natural gas is the principal raw material for hydrogen, carbon monoxide, and syngas production. Electric power is the largest cost
component in the production of atmospheric gases. The Company mitigates energy and natural gas price increases through long-term cost pass-through contracts. During fiscal year 2013, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate
supplies of energy or raw materials.

Tonnage Gases competes against three global industrial gas companies: L’Air
Liquide S.A.; Linde AG; Praxair, Inc.; and several regional competitors. Competition is based primarily on price, reliability of supply, the development of applications that use industrial gases, and, in some cases, provision of other services or
products such as power and steam generation. We also have a competitive advantage in regions where we have pipeline networks, which enable us to provide a reliable and economic supply of products to customers.

Tonnage Gases sales constituted approximately 33% of the Company’s consolidated sales in fiscal year 2013, 33% in fiscal year
2012, and 34% in fiscal year 2011. Tonnage Gases hydrogen and related product sales constituted approximately 21% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2013, 19% in fiscal year 2012, and 21% in fiscal year 2011.

Electronics and Performance Materials

Electronics and Performance Materials employs applications technology to provide solutions to a broad range of global industries
through chemical synthesis, analytical technology, process engineering, and surface science. This segment provides the electronics industry with specialty gases (such as nitrogen trifluoride, arsine, phosphine, white ammonia, silicon tetrafluoride,
carbon tetrafluoride, hexafluoromethane, critical etch gases, and tungsten hexafluoride), tonnage gases (primarily nitrogen), chemicals mechanical planarization slurries, specialty chemicals, services, and equipment primarily for the manufacture of
silicon and compound semiconductors and thin film transistor liquid crystal displays. These products are delivered through various supply chain methods, including bulk delivery systems or distribution by pipelines such as those located in
California’s Silicon Valley; Phoenix, Arizona; Tainan, Taiwan; Gumi and Giheung, Korea; and Tianjin China.

Electronics and Performance Materials also provides performance materials for a wide range of products, including coatings, inks,
adhesives, civil engineering, personal care, institutional and industrial cleaning, mining, oil refining, and polyurethanes, and focuses on the development of new materials aimed at providing unique functionality to emerging markets. Principal
performance materials include polyurethane catalysts and other additives for polyurethane foam, epoxy amine curing agents and auxiliary products for epoxy systems, specialty surfactants for formulated systems, and functional additives for industrial
cleaning and mining industries.

The Electronics and Performance Materials segment uses a wide variety of raw materials,
including ammonia, tungsten powder, hydrogen fluoride, amines, alcohols, epoxides, organic acids, and ketones. During fiscal year 2013, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of energy or raw materials.







The Electronics and Performance Materials segment faces competition on a
product-by-product basis against competitors ranging from niche suppliers with a single product to larger and more vertically integrated companies. Competition is principally conducted on the basis of price, quality, product performance, reliability
of product supply, technical innovation, service, and global infrastructure.

Total sales from Electronics and
Performance Materials constituted approximately 22% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2013, 24% in fiscal year 2012, and 24% in fiscal year 2011.

Equipment and Energy

Equipment and Energy designs and manufactures cryogenic
equipment for air separation, hydrocarbon recovery and purification, natural gas liquefaction (LNG), and helium distribution (cryogenic transportation containers), and serves energy markets in a variety of ways.

Equipment is sold globally to customers in the chemical and petrochemical manufacturing, oil and gas recovery and processing, and
steel and primary metals processing industries. The segment also provides a broad range of plant design, engineering, procurement, and construction management services to its customers.

Energy markets are served through the Company’s operation and partial ownership of cogeneration and flue gas desulfurization
facilities. In addition, we are developing hydrogen as an energy carrier, waste-to-energy facilities to produce electricity, carbon capture technologies for a variety of industrial and power applications, and oxygen-based technologies to serve
energy markets in the future. The Company operates and owns a 48.8% interest in a 112-megawatt gas-fueled power generation facility in Thailand. The Company also operates and owns a 70% interest in a flue gas desulfurization facility in Indiana.

Steel, aluminum, and capital equipment subcomponents (compressors, etc.) are the principal raw materials in the
equipment portion of this segment. Adequate raw materials for individual projects are acquired under firm purchase agreements. Limestone is the largest cost component in the production of energy. The Company mitigates these cost components, in part,
through long-term cost pass-through contracts. During fiscal year 2013, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials.

Equipment and Energy competes with a great number of firms for all of its offerings except LNG heat exchangers, for which there are
fewer competitors due to the limited market size and proprietary technologies. Competition is based primarily on technological performance, service, technical know-how, price, and performance guarantees.

The backlog of equipment orders (including letters of intent believed to be firm) from third-party customers was approximately
$402 million on 30 September 2013, approximately 6% of which is for cryogenic equipment and 66% of which is for LNG heat exchangers, as compared with a total backlog of approximately $450 million on 30 September 2012. The Company
expects that approximately $250 million of the backlog on 30 September 2013 will be completed during fiscal year 2014.

Narrative Description of the Company’s Business Generally

The Company,
through subsidiaries, affiliates, and less-than-controlling interests, conducts business in over 50 countries outside the United States. Its international businesses are subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and controls; import and export controls; and other economic, political, and regulatory policies of local governments.

The Company has majority or wholly owned foreign subsidiaries that operate in Canada, 18 European countries (including the United
Kingdom, the Netherlands, and Spain), 11 Asian countries (including China, Korea, and Taiwan), 8 Latin American countries (including Chile and Brazil) and 2 African countries. The Company also owns less-than-controlling interests in entities
operating in Europe, Asia, Africa, the Middle East, and Latin America (including Italy, Germany, China, India, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Thailand, United Arab Emirates, South Africa, and Mexico).

Financial information about the Company’s foreign operations and investments is included in Note 8, Summarized Financial
Information of Equity Affiliates; Note 22, Income Taxes; and Note 25, Business Segment and Geographic Information, to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, herein. Information about foreign currency translation is
included under “Foreign Currency” in Note 1, Major Accounting Policies, and information on the Company’s exposure to currency fluctuations is included in Note 13, Financial Instruments, to the consolidated financial statements,
included under Item 8, below, and in “Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk,” included under Item 7A, below. Export sales from operations in the United States to third-party customers amounted to $410.3 million,
$521.1 million, and $537.3 million in fiscal years 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.







Technology Development

The Company pursues a market-oriented approach to technology development through research and development, engineering, and
commercial development processes. It conducts research and development principally in its laboratories located in the United States (Trexlertown, Pennsylvania; Carlsbad, California; Milton, Wisconsin; and Phoenix, Arizona), Canada (Vancouver), the
United Kingdom (Basingstoke and Carrington), Germany (Hamburg), the Netherlands (Utrecht), Spain (Barcelona), Japan (Kawasaki), China (Shanghai), Korea (Giheung), and Taiwan (Chupei and Hsinchu City). The Company also funds and cooperates in
research and development programs conducted by a number of major universities and undertakes research work funded by others—principally the United States government.

The Company’s corporate research groups, which include science and process technology centers, support the research efforts of
various businesses throughout the Company. Development of technology for use within Merchant Gases, Tonnage Gases, and Equipment and Energy focuses primarily on new and improved processes and equipment for the production and delivery of industrial
gases and new or improved applications for all such products. Research and technology development for Electronics and Performance Materials supports development of new products and applications to strengthen and extend the Company’s present
positions. Work is also performed in Electronics and Performance Materials to lower processing costs and develop new processes for the new products.

Research and development expenditures were $133.7 million during fiscal year 2013, $126.4 million in fiscal year 2012, and $118.8 million in fiscal year 2011. In addition, the Company expended
$45.5 million on customer-sponsored research activities during fiscal year 2013, $45.4 million in fiscal year 2012, and $29.1 million in fiscal year 2011.

As of 1 November 2013, the Company owns 972 United States patents, 3,439 foreign patents, and is a licensee under certain
patents owned by others. While the patents and licenses are considered important, the Company does not consider its business as a whole to be materially dependent upon any particular patent, patent license, or group of patents or licenses.

Environmental Controls

The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which it has operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in higher capital expenditures and costs. From
time to time, the Company is involved in proceedings under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA: the federal Superfund law), Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and similar state and foreign
environmental laws relating to the designation of certain sites for investigation or remediation. Additional information with respect to these proceedings is included under Item 3, Legal Proceedings, below. The Company’s accounting policy
for environmental expenditures is discussed in Note 1, Major Accounting Policies, and environmental loss contingencies are discussed in Note 17, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements, included under Item 8,
below.

The amounts charged to income from continuing operations related to environmental matters totaled
$37.1 million in fiscal 2013, $44.7 million in 2012, and $34.0 million in 2011. These amounts represent an estimate of expenses for compliance with environmental laws, and activities undertaken to meet internal Company standards.
Refer to Note 17, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Although precise amounts are difficult to determine, the Company estimates that we spent $4.0 million in both 2013 and 2012, on
capital projects to control pollution. Capital expenditures to control pollution in future years are estimated at approximately $4.0 million in both 2014 and 2015.

Employees

On 30 September 2013, the Company (including majority-owned subsidiaries) had approximately 21,600 employees, of whom approximately 21,300 were full-time employees and of whom approximately 13,600 were located
outside the United States. The Company has collective bargaining agreements with unions at various locations that expire on various dates over the next four years. The Company considers relations with its employees to be satisfactory.

Available Information

All periodic and current reports, registration statements, and other filings that the Company is required to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the Company’s annual report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the 1934 Act Reports), are available free of charge
through







the Company’s Internet website at www.airproducts.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of the material with the SEC. All 1934 Act
Reports filed during the period covered by this report were available on the Company’s website on the same day as filing.

The public may also read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.
The address of that site is www.sec.gov.

Seasonality

Although none of the four business segments are subject to seasonal fluctuations to any material extent, the Electronics and
Performance Materials segment is susceptible to the cyclical nature of the electronics industry and to seasonal fluctuations in underlying end-use performance materials markets.

Working Capital

The Company maintains inventory where required to facilitate the supply of products to customers on a reasonable delivery schedule. Merchant Gases inventory consists primarily of industrial, specialty gas, and
crude helium inventories supplied to customers through liquid bulk and packaged gases supply modes. Electronics and Performance Materials inventories consist primarily of bulk and packaged specialty gases and chemicals, bulk and packaged performance
chemical solutions and also include inventories to support sales of equipment and services. Specialty and performance chemical inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Tonnage Gases and Equipment and Energy have limited inventory.

Customers

We do not have a homogeneous customer base or end market, and no single customer accounts for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. The Tonnage Gases and Electronics and Performance Materials segments do have
concentrations of customers in specific industries, primarily refining, chemicals, and electronics. Within each of these industries, the Company has several large-volume customers with long-term contracts. A negative trend affecting one of these
industries, or the loss of one of these major customers, although not material to our consolidated revenues, could have an adverse impact on the affected segment.

Governmental Contracts

No segment’s business is subject to a government entity’s renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts that would be material to our business as a whole.







Executive Officers of the Company

The Company’s executive officers and their respective positions and ages on 21 November 2013 follow.

Information with respect to offices held is stated in fiscal years.





NameAgeOffice



M. Scott Crocco(A)49Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (became Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2013 and Vice President and Corporate Controller in 2008).



Stephen J. Jones(A)52Senior Vice President and General Manager, Tonnage Gases, Equipment and Energy and China President (became Senior Vice President and General Manager, Tonnage Gases, Equipment and Energy
and China President in 2011; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Tonnage Gases, Equipment and Energy in 2009; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in 2008).



Patricia A. Mattimore(A)53Senior Vice President – Supply Chain (became Senior Vice President – Supply Chain in 2014 and Vice President and General Manager of Performance Materials in
2009).



John E. McGlade (1)(A)(B)(C)59Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer (became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 2008).



Guillermo Novo(A)51Senior Vice President and General Manager – Electronics, Performance Materials, Strategy and Technology (became Senior Vice President and General Manager – Electronics,
Performance Materials, Strategy and Technology in 2012; Group Vice President, Dow Coating Materials at Dow Chemical Company in 2010; Vice President, Polyurethanes Business at Dow Chemical Company in 2009; and Vice President at Rohm and Haas in
2008).



Corning F. Painter(A)51Senior Vice President and General Manager – Merchant Gases (became Senior Vice President and General Manager – Merchant Gases in 2014; Senior Vice President – Supply Chain
in 2012; Senior Vice President - Corporate Strategy and Technology in 2011; and Vice President and General Manager, Global Electronics in 2007).



John D. Stanley(A)55Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Administrative Officer (became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Administrative Officer in 2013; Senior Vice President and
General Counsel in 2009; and Assistant General Counsel, Americas and Europe in 2007).



(A)Member, Corporate Executive Committee

(B)Member, Board of Directors

(C)Member, Executive Committee of the Board of Directors

(1)Mr. McGlade has announced that he plans to retire in 2014.







