ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General Description of Business and Fiscal Year 2010 Developments

Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. (the Company or Air Products), a Delaware corporation originally founded in 1940,
serves technology, energy, industrial, and healthcare customers globally with a unique portfolio of products, services, and solutions that include atmospheric gases, process and specialty gases, performance materials, equipment, and services. The
Company is the world’s largest supplier of hydrogen and helium and has built leading positions in growth markets such as semiconductor materials, refinery hydrogen, natural gas liquefaction, and advanced coatings and adhesives. As used in this
report, unless the context indicates otherwise, the term “Company” includes subsidiaries and predecessors of the registrant and its subsidiaries.

On 11 February 2010, Air Products Distribution, Inc. (Purchaser), a wholly owned subsidiary of Air Products, commenced a cash tender offer for all the outstanding shares of common stock of Airgas, Inc.
(Airgas) not already owned by Air Products. Airgas is the largest U.S. distributor of packaged industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and associated hard goods such as welding equipment. The offer is scheduled to expire at midnight, New York City
time, on Friday, 3 December 2010, unless further extended.

The Company manages its operations, assesses
performance, and reports earnings under four business segments: Merchant Gases, Tonnage Gases, Electronics and Performance Materials, and Equipment and Energy.

Financial Information about Segments

Financial information concerning the
Company’s four business segments appears in Note 25, Business Segment and Geographic Information, to the consolidated financial statements, included under Item 8 herein.

Narrative Description of Business by Segments

Merchant Gases

Merchant Gases sells atmospheric gases such as oxygen, nitrogen, and argon (primarily recovered by the cryogenic distillation of air); process gases such as hydrogen and helium (purchased or refined from crude
helium); and medical and specialty gases, along with certain services and equipment, throughout the world to customers in many industries, including those in metals, glass, chemical processing, food processing, healthcare, steel, general
manufacturing, and petroleum and natural gas industries.

Merchant Gases includes the following types of products:

Liquid bulk—Product is delivered in bulk (in liquid or gaseous form) by tanker or tube trailer and stored,
usually in its liquid state, in equipment designed and installed by the Company at the customer’s site for vaporizing into a gaseous state as needed. Liquid bulk sales are typically governed by three- to five-year contracts.

Packaged gases—Small quantities of product are delivered in either cylinders or dewars. The Company operates packaged
gas businesses in Europe, Asia, and Brazil. In the United States, the Company’s current packaged gas business sells products only for the electronics and magnetic resonance imaging (principally helium) industries.

Small on-site plants—Customers receive product through small on-sites (cryogenic or noncryogenic generators), either by
a sale of gas contract or the sale of the equipment to the customer.

Healthcare products—Customers receive
respiratory therapies, home medical equipment, and infusion services. These products and services are provided to patients in their homes, primarily in Europe. The Company has leading market positions in Spain, Portugal, and the United Kingdom, and
in Mexico through its equity affiliate.

Electric power is the largest cost component in the production of atmospheric
gases—oxygen, nitrogen, and argon. Natural gas is also an energy source at a number of the Company’s Merchant Gases facilities. The Company mitigates energy and natural gas price increases through pricing formulas and surcharges. A
shortage or interruption of electricity or natural gas supply, or a price increase that cannot be passed through to customers, possibly for competitive reasons, may adversely affect the operations or results of Merchant Gases. During fiscal year
2010, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of energy or raw materials.

Merchant
Gases competes worldwide against three global industrial gas companies: L’Air Liquide S.A.; Linde AG; Praxair, Inc.; and several regional sellers (including Airgas, primarily with respect to liquid bulk sales). Competition in industrial gases
is based primarily on price, reliability of supply, and the development of industrial gas applications.







Competition in the healthcare business involves price, quality, service, and reliability of supply. In Europe, primary healthcare competitors include the same three global industrial gas
companies mentioned previously, as well as smaller regional service providers. In some countries such as Spain and the United Kingdom, the Company tenders for significant parts of the healthcare business with government agencies and is expecting to
participate in tenders in some countries over the coming fiscal year.

Merchant Gases sales constituted 41% of the
Company’s consolidated sales in fiscal year 2010, 44% in fiscal year 2009, and 40% in fiscal year 2008. Sales of atmospheric gases (oxygen, nitrogen, and argon) constituted approximately 20% of the Company’s consolidated sales in fiscal
year 2010, 21% in fiscal year 2009, and 18% in fiscal year 2008.

Tonnage Gases

Tonnage Gases also includes a Polyurethane Intermediates (PUI) business. At its Pasadena, Texas facility, the Company produces
dinitrotoluene (DNT), which is converted to toluene diamine (TDA) and sold for use as an intermediate in the manufacture of a major precursor of flexible polyurethane foam used in furniture cushioning, carpet underlay, bedding, and seating in
automobiles. Most of the Company’s TDA is sold under long-term contracts with raw material cost and currency pass-through to a small number of customers. The Company employs proprietary technology and scale of production to differentiate its
polyurethane intermediates from those of its competitors.

Natural gas is the principal raw material for hydrogen, carbon
monoxide, and synthesis gas production. Electric power is the largest cost component in the production of atmospheric gases. The Company mitigates energy and natural gas price increases through long-term cost pass-through contracts. Toluene,
ammonia, and hydrogen are the principal raw materials for the PUI business and are purchased from various suppliers under multiyear contracts. During fiscal year 2010, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of
energy or raw materials.

Tonnage Gases competes in the United States and Canada against three global industrial gas
companies: L’Air Liquide S.A.; Linde AG; Praxair, Inc.; and several regional competitors. Competition is based primarily on price, reliability of supply, the development of applications that use industrial gases, and, in some cases, provision
of other services or products such as power and steam generation. The Company also derives a competitive advantage from its pipeline networks, which enable it to provide a reliable and economic supply of products to customers. Similar competitive
situations exist in the European and Asian industrial gas markets where the Company competes against the three global companies as well as regional competitors. Global competitors for the PUI business are primarily BASF Corporation and Bayer AG.

Tonnage Gases sales constituted approximately 32% of the Company’s consolidated sales in fiscal year 2010, 31% in
fiscal year 2009, and 34% in fiscal year 2008. Tonnage Gases hydrogen sales constituted approximately 15% of the Company’s consolidated sales in both fiscal year 2010 and 2009, and 17% in fiscal year 2008.

Electronics and Performance Materials

Electronics and Performance Materials employs applications technology to provide solutions to a broad range of global industries
through chemical synthesis, analytical technology, process engineering, and surface science. This segment provides the electronics industry with specialty gases (such as nitrogen trifluoride, silane, arsine, phosphine, white ammonia, silicon
tetrafluoride, carbon tetrafluoride, hexafluoromethane, critical etch gases, and tungsten hexafluoride) as well as tonnage gases (primarily nitrogen), specialty chemicals, services, and equipment for the







manufacture of silicon and compound semiconductors, thin film transistor liquid crystal displays, and photovoltaic devices. These products are delivered through various supply chain methods,
including bulk delivery systems or distribution by pipelines such as those located in California’s Silicon Valley; Phoenix, Arizona; Tainan, Taiwan; Gumi and Giheung, Korea; and Tianjin and Shanghai, China.

Electronics and Performance Materials also provides performance materials for a wide range of products, including coatings, inks,
adhesives, civil engineering, personal care, institutional and industrial cleaning, mining, oil refining, and polyurethanes, and focuses on the development of new materials aimed at providing unique functionality to emerging markets. Principal
performance materials include polyurethane catalysts and other additives for polyurethane foam, epoxy amine curing agents, and auxiliary products for epoxy systems, specialty surfactants for formulated systems, and functional additives for
industrial cleaning and mining industries.

The Electronics and Performance Materials segment uses a wide variety of raw
materials, including silane, amines, alcohols, epoxides, organic acids, and ketones. During fiscal year 2010, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of energy or raw materials.

The Electronics and Performance Materials segment faces competition on a product-by-product basis against competitors ranging from
niche suppliers with a single product to larger and more vertically integrated companies. Competition is principally conducted on the basis of price, quality, product performance, reliability of product supply, technical innovation, service, and
global infrastructure.

Total sales from Electronics and Performance Materials constituted approximately 21% of the
Company’s consolidated sales in fiscal year 2010, 19% in fiscal year 2009, and 21% in fiscal year 2008.

Equipment and Energy

Equipment and Energy designs and manufactures cryogenic equipment for air separation, hydrocarbon recovery and purification, natural gas liquefaction (LNG), and helium distribution (cryogenic transportation
containers), and serves energy markets in a variety of ways.

Equipment is sold globally to customers in the chemical and
petrochemical manufacturing, oil and gas recovery and processing, and steel and primary metals processing industries. The segment also provides a broad range of plant design, engineering, procurement, and construction management services to its
customers.

Energy markets are served through the Company’s operation and partial ownership of cogeneration and flue
gas desulfurization facilities, its development of hydrogen as an energy carrier, and oxygen-based technologies to serve energy markets in the future. The Company owns and operates a cogeneration facility in Calvert City, Kentucky and a 49-megawatt
fluidized-bed coal and biomass-fired power generation facility in Stockton, California; and operates and owns a 47.9% interest in a 112-megawatt gas-fueled power generation facility in Thailand. The Company also operates and owns a 50% interest in a
flue gas desulfurization facility in Indiana.

Steel, aluminum, and capital equipment subcomponents (compressors, etc.)
are the principal raw materials in the equipment portion of this segment. Adequate raw materials for individual projects are acquired under firm purchase agreements. Coal, petroleum coke, and natural gas are the largest cost components in the
production of energy. The Company mitigates these cost components, in part, through long-term cost pass-through contracts. During fiscal year 2010, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials.

Equipment and Energy competes with a great number of firms for all of its offerings except LNG heat exchangers, for
which there are fewer competitors due to the limited market size and proprietary technologies. Competition is based primarily on technological performance, service, technical know-how, price, and performance guarantees.

The backlog of equipment orders (including letters of intent believed to be firm) from third-party customers (including equity
affiliates) was approximately $274 million on 30 September 2010, approximately 30% of which is for cryogenic equipment and 50% of which is for LNG heat exchangers, as compared with a total backlog of approximately $239 million on
30 September 2009. The Company expects that approximately $250 million of the backlog on 30 September 2010 will be completed during fiscal year 2011.







Narrative Description of the Company’s Business Generally

The Company, through subsidiaries, affiliates, and minority-owned ventures, conducts business in over 40 countries outside the
United States. Its international businesses are subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and controls; import and export controls; and other economic, political, and
regulatory policies of local governments.

The Company has majority or wholly owned foreign subsidiaries that operate in
Canada, 17 European countries (including the United Kingdom and Spain), nine Asian countries (including China, Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan), and four Latin American countries (including Mexico and Brazil). The Company also owns
less-than-controlling interests in entities operating in Europe, Asia, Africa, the Middle East, and Latin America (including Italy, Germany, China, India, Singapore, Thailand, South Africa, and Mexico).

Financial information about the Company’s foreign operations and investments is included in Notes 8, Summarized Financial
Information of Equity Affiliates; 22, Income Taxes; and 25, Business Segment and Geographic Information, to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 herein. Information about foreign currency translation is included under
“Foreign Currency” in Note 1, Major Accounting Policies, and information on the Company’s exposure to currency fluctuations is included in Note 13, Financial Instruments, to the consolidated financial statements, included under
Item 8 below, and in “Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk,” included under Item 7A below. Export sales from operations in the United States to unconsolidated customers amounted to $570.5 million, $510.2 million, and
$629.1 million in fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Total export sales in fiscal year 2010 included $387.8 million in export sales to affiliated customers. The sales to affiliated customers were primarily equipment sales
within the Equipment and Energy segment and the Electronic and Performance Materials segment.

Technology Development

The Company pursues a market-oriented approach to technology development through research and development,
engineering, and commercial development processes. It conducts research and development principally in its laboratories located in the United States (Trexlertown, Pennsylvania; Carlsbad, California; Milton, Wisconsin; and Phoenix, Arizona); the
United Kingdom (Basingstoke, London, and Carrington); Germany (Hamburg); the Netherlands (Utrecht); Spain (Barcelona); and Asia (Tokyo, Japan; Shanghai, China; Giheung, Korea; and Chubei, Taiwan). The Company also funds and cooperates in research
and development programs conducted by a number of major universities and undertakes research work funded by others—principally the United States government.

The Company’s corporate research groups, which include science and process technology centers, support the research efforts of
various businesses throughout the Company. Technology development efforts for use within Merchant Gases, Tonnage Gases, and Equipment and Energy focus primarily on new and improved processes and equipment for the production and delivery of
industrial gases and new or improved applications for all such products. Research and technology development for Electronics and Performance Materials supports development of new products and applications to strengthen and extend the Company’s
present positions. Work is also performed in Electronics and Performance Materials to lower processing costs and develop new processes for the new products.

Research and development expenditures were $114.7 million during fiscal year 2010, $116.3 million in fiscal year 2009, and $130.7 million in fiscal year 2008. The Company expended $23.9 million
on customer-sponsored research activities during fiscal year 2010, $29.7 million in fiscal year 2009, and $24.8 million in fiscal year 2008.

As of 1 November 2010, the Company owns 932 United States patents, 2,808 foreign patents, and is a licensee under certain patents owned by others. While the patents and licenses are considered important, the
Company does not consider its business as a whole to be materially dependent upon any particular patent, patent license, or group of patents or licenses.

Environmental Controls

The Company is subject to various environmental laws
and regulations in the countries in which it has operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in higher capital expenditures and costs. From time to time, the Company is involved in proceedings under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (the federal Superfund law), similar state laws, and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) relating to the designation of certain sites for investigation and possible cleanup. Additional
information with respect to these proceedings is included under Item 3, Legal Proceedings, below. The Company’s accounting policy for environmental expenditures is discussed in Note 1, Major Accounting Policies, and environmental loss
contingencies are discussed in Note 17, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements, included under Item 8, below.







The amounts charged to income from continuing operations related to environmental
matters totaled $31.6 million in fiscal 2010, $52.5 million in 2009, and $49.9 million in 2008. These amounts represent an estimate of expenses for compliance with environmental laws, remedial activities, and activities undertaken to
meet internal Company standards. Future costs are not expected to be materially different from these amounts. The 2009 amount included a charge of $16.0 for the Paulsboro site. Refer to Note 17, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated
financial statements for additional information on this charge. The 2008 amount included revised cost estimates for several existing sites.

Although precise amounts are difficult to determine, the Company estimates that in both fiscal year 2010 and 2009, it spent approximately $6 million on capital projects to control pollution. Capital
expenditures to control pollution in future years are estimated at approximately $6 million in both fiscal year 2011 and 2012. The cost of any environmental compliance generally is contractually passed through to the customer.

The Company accrues environmental investigatory and remediation costs for identified sites when it is probable that a liability has
been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The potential exposure for such costs is estimated to range from $87 million to a reasonably possible upper exposure of $101 million. The accrual on the consolidated balance
sheet for 30 September 2010 was $87.0 million and for 30 September 2009 was $95.0 million. Actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the estimates, given inherent uncertainties in evaluating environmental
exposures. Subject to the imprecision in estimating future environmental costs, the Company does not expect that any sum it may have to pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of the amounts recorded or disclosed above would have a
materially adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations in any one year.

Employees

On 30 September 2010, the Company (including majority-owned subsidiaries) had approximately 18,300 employees,
of whom approximately 17,900 were full-time employees and of whom approximately 11,000 were located outside the United States. The Company has collective bargaining agreements with unions at various locations that expire on various dates over the
next four years. The Company considers relations with its employees to be satisfactory and does not believe that the impact of any expiring or expired collective bargaining agreements will result in a material adverse impact on the Company.

Available Information

All periodic and current reports, registration statements, and other filings that the Company is required to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the Company’s annual report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the 1934 Act Reports), are available free of charge
through the Company’s Internet website at www.airproducts.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of the material with the SEC. All 1934 Act Reports filed during the period covered by this
report were available on the Company’s website on the same day as filing.

The public may also read and copy any
materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov.

Seasonality

Although none of the four business segments are subject to seasonal fluctuations to any material extent, the Electronics and Performance Materials segment is susceptible to the cyclical nature of the electronics
industry and to seasonal fluctuations in underlying end-use performance materials markets.

Working Capital

The Company maintains inventory where required to facilitate the supply of products to customers on a reasonable
delivery schedule. Merchant Gases inventory consists primarily of industrial, medical, specialty gas, and crude helium inventories supplied to customers through liquid bulk and packaged gases supply modes. Merchant Gases inventory also includes home
medical equipment to serve healthcare patients. Electronics inventories consist primarily of bulk and packaged specialty gases and chemicals and also include inventories to support sales of equipment and services. Performance Materials inventories
consist primarily of bulk and packaged performance chemical solutions. The Tonnage Gases inventory is primarily Polyurethane Intermediates raw materials and finished goods; the remaining on-site plants and pipeline complexes have limited inventory.
Equipment and Energy has limited inventory.







Customers

The Company does not have a homogeneous customer base or end market, and no single customer accounts for more than 10% of the
Company’s consolidated revenues. The Company and the Tonnage Gases and Electronics and Performance Materials segments do have concentrations of customers in specific industries, primarily refining, chemicals, and electronics. Within each of
these industries, the Company has several large-volume customers with long-term contracts. A negative trend affecting one of these industries, or the loss of one of these major customers, although not material to the Company’s consolidated
revenues, could have an adverse impact on the affected segment.

Governmental Contracts

No segment’s business is subject to a government entity’s renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts that would
be material to the Company’s business as a whole.

Executive Officers of the Company

The Company’s executive officers and their respective positions and ages on 15 November 2010 follow. Information with
respect to offices held is stated in fiscal years.





NameAgeOffice



M. Scott Crocco46Vice President and Corporate Controller (became Vice President in 2008; Corporate Controller in 2007; and Director of Corporate Decision Support in 2003)



Robert D. Dixon(A)51Senior Vice President and General Manager – Merchant Gases (became Senior Vice President in 2008; Vice President and General Manager – Merchant Gases in 2007; President – Air
Products Asia in 2003; and Vice President – Air Products Asia in 2003)



Paul E. Huck(A)60Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (became Senior Vice President in 2008; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2004)



Stephen J. Jones(A)49Senior Vice President and General Manager, Tonnage Gases, Equipment and Energy (became Senior Vice President and General Manager, Tonnage Gases, Equipment and Energy in 2009; Senior Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary in 2008; Vice President and Associate General Counsel in 2007; and Vice President and General Manager – Industrial Chemicals Division in 2003)



John W. Marsland(A)44Senior Vice President, Supply Chain (became Senior Vice President, Supply Chain in 2010; Vice President and General Manager, Global Liquid Bulk, Generated Gases and Helium in 2009; Vice
President – Business Services in 2009; Vice President and General Manager – Healthcare in 2007; Vice President and General Manager, Global Healthcare in 2005)



John E. McGlade(A)(B)(C)56Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer (became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 2008; President and Chief Operating Officer in 2006; Group Vice President – Chemicals in
2003)



Lynn C. Minella(A)52Senior Vice President – Human Resources and Communications (became Senior Vice President – Human Resources and Communications in 2008; Vice President – Human Resources in
2004)







NameAgeOfficeJohn D. Stanley(A)52Senior Vice President and General Counsel (became Senior Vice President and General Counsel in 2009; Assistant General Counsel, Americas and Europe in 2007; Assistant General Counsel,
Corporate and Commercial in 2004)



(A)Member, Corporate Executive Committee

(B)Member, Board of Directors

(C)Member, Executive Committee of the Board of Directors



