ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General Description of Business and Fiscal Year 2011 Developments

Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. (“we,” “our,” “us,” the “Company,”
“Air Products,” or “registrant”), a Delaware corporation originally founded in 1940, serves energy, electronics, chemicals, steel, and manufacturing customers globally with a unique portfolio of products, services, and solutions
that include atmospheric gases, process and specialty gases, performance materials, equipment, and services. The Company is the world’s largest supplier of hydrogen and helium and has built leading positions in growth markets such as
semiconductor materials, refinery hydrogen, natural gas liquefaction, and advanced coatings and adhesives. As used in this report, unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,”
“Company,” or “registrant” include subsidiaries and predecessors of Air Products and its subsidiaries.

The Company manages its operations, assesses performance, and reports earnings under four business segments: Merchant Gases, Tonnage
Gases, Electronics and Performance Materials, and Equipment and Energy.

Financial Information about Segments

Financial information concerning the Company’s four business segments appears in Note 24, Business Segment and
Geographic Information, to the consolidated financial statements, included under Item 8 herein.

Narrative
Description of Business by Segments

Merchant Gases

Merchant Gases sells atmospheric gases such as oxygen, nitrogen, and argon (primarily recovered by the cryogenic distillation of
air); process gases such as hydrogen and helium (purchased or refined from crude helium); medical and specialty gases; and certain services and equipment, throughout the world to customers in many industries, including those in metals, glass,
chemical processing, food processing, healthcare, steel, general manufacturing, and petroleum and natural gas industries.

Merchant Gases includes the following types of products:

Liquid bulk—Product is delivered in bulk (in liquid or gaseous form) by tanker or tube trailer and stored, usually in
its liquid state, in equipment designed and installed by the Company at the customer’s site for vaporizing into a gaseous state as needed. Liquid bulk sales are typically governed by three- to five-year contracts.

Packaged gases—Small quantities of product are delivered in either cylinders or dewars. The Company operates packaged
gas businesses in Europe, Asia, and Brazil. In the United States, the Company’s current packaged gas business sells products only for the electronics and magnetic resonance imaging (principally helium) industries.

Small on-site plants—Customers receive product through small on-sites (cryogenic or noncryogenic generators), either by
a sale of gas contract or the sale of the equipment to the customer.

Healthcare products—Customers receive
respiratory therapies, home medical equipment, and infusion services. These products and services are provided to patients in their homes, primarily in Europe. The Company has leading market positions in Spain, Portugal, and the United Kingdom, and
in Mexico through its equity affiliates.

Electric power is the largest cost component in the production of atmospheric
gases—oxygen, nitrogen, and argon. Natural gas is also an energy source at a number of the Company’s Merchant Gases facilities. The Company mitigates energy and natural gas price increases through pricing formulas and surcharges. During
fiscal year 2011, we experienced shortages in helium supply due to industrywide sourcing shortfalls. No other significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of energy or raw materials during the year.

Merchant Gases competes worldwide against three global industrial gas companies: L’Air Liquide S.A.; Linde AG; and Praxair,
Inc.; and several regional sellers (including Airgas, Inc., primarily with respect to liquid bulk sales). Competition in industrial gases is based primarily on price, reliability of supply, and the development of industrial gas applications.
Competition in the healthcare business involves price, quality, service, and reliability of supply. In Europe, primary healthcare competitors include the same three global industrial gas companies mentioned previously, as well as smaller regional
service providers. In some countries such as Spain and the United Kingdom, the Company tenders for significant parts of the healthcare business with government agencies and is expecting to participate in tenders in some countries over the coming
fiscal year.







Merchant Gases sales constituted 40% of the Company’s consolidated sales in
fiscal year 2011, 41% in fiscal year 2010, and 44% in fiscal year 2009. Sales of atmospheric gases (oxygen, nitrogen, and argon) constituted approximately 20% of the Company’s consolidated sales in fiscal year 2011, 20% in fiscal year 2010, and
21% in fiscal year 2009.

The Merchant Gases segment also includes the Company’s share of the results of several
joint ventures accounted for by the equity method. The largest of these joint ventures operate in Mexico, Italy, South Africa, India, and Thailand.

Tonnage Gases

Tonnage Gases also includes a Polyurethane Intermediates (PUI) business. At its Pasadena, Texas facility, the Company produces
dinitrotoluene (DNT), which is converted to toluene diamine (TDA). Most of the Company’s TDA is sold under long-term contracts with raw material cost and currency pass-through to a small number of customers.

Natural gas is the principal raw material for hydrogen, carbon monoxide, and synthesis gas production. Electric power is the largest
cost component in the production of atmospheric gases. The Company mitigates energy and natural gas price increases through long-term cost pass-through contracts. Toluene, ammonia, and hydrogen are the principal raw materials for the PUI business
and are purchased from various suppliers under multiyear contracts. During fiscal year 2011, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of energy or raw materials.

Tonnage Gases competes in the United States and Canada against three global industrial gas companies: L’Air Liquide S.A.; Linde
AG; Praxair, Inc.; and several regional competitors. Competition is based primarily on price, reliability of supply, the development of applications that use industrial gases, and, in some cases, provision of other services or products such as power
and steam generation. We also have a competitive advantage in regions where we have pipeline networks, which enable us to provide a reliable and economic supply of products to customers. Similar competitive situations exist in the European and Asian
industrial gas markets where we compete against the three global companies as well as regional competitors. Global competitors for the PUI business are primarily BASF Corporation and Bayer AG.

Tonnage Gases sales constituted approximately 33% of the Company’s consolidated sales in fiscal year 2011, 32% in fiscal year
2010, and 31% in fiscal year 2009. Tonnage Gases hydrogen sales constituted approximately 15% of the Company’s consolidated sales for the last three fiscal years.

Electronics and Performance Materials

Electronics and Performance Materials employs applications technology to provide solutions to a broad range of global industries
through chemical synthesis, analytical technology, process engineering, and surface science. This segment provides the electronics industry with specialty gases (such as nitrogen trifluoride, silane, arsine, phosphine, white ammonia, silicon
tetrafluoride, carbon tetrafluoride, hexafluoromethane, critical etch gases, and tungsten hexafluoride) as well as tonnage gases (primarily nitrogen), specialty chemicals, services, and equipment for the manufacture of silicon and compound
semiconductors, thin film transistor liquid crystal displays, and photovoltaic devices. These products are delivered through various supply chain methods, including bulk delivery systems or distribution by pipelines such as those located in
California’s Silicon Valley; Phoenix, Arizona; Tainan, Taiwan; Gumi and Giheung, Korea; and Tianjin and Shanghai, China.







Electronics and Performance Materials also provides performance materials for a wide
range of products, including coatings, inks, adhesives, civil engineering, personal care, institutional and industrial cleaning, mining, oil refining, and polyurethanes, and focuses on the development of new materials aimed at providing unique
functionality to emerging markets. Principal performance materials include polyurethane catalysts and other additives for polyurethane foam, epoxy amine curing agents and auxiliary products for epoxy systems, specialty surfactants for formulated
systems, and functional additives for industrial cleaning and mining industries.

The Electronics and Performance
Materials segment uses a wide variety of raw materials, including silane, amines, alcohols, epoxides, organic acids, and ketones. During fiscal year 2011, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of energy or raw
materials.

The Electronics and Performance Materials segment faces competition on a product-by-product basis against
competitors ranging from niche suppliers with a single product to larger and more vertically integrated companies. Competition is principally conducted on the basis of price, quality, product performance, reliability of product supply, technical
innovation, service, and global infrastructure.

Total sales from Electronics and Performance Materials constituted
approximately 23% of the Company’s consolidated sales in fiscal year 2011, 21% in fiscal year 2010, and 19% in fiscal year 2009.

Equipment and Energy

Equipment and Energy designs and manufactures cryogenic
equipment for air separation, hydrocarbon recovery and purification, natural gas liquefaction (LNG), and helium distribution (cryogenic transportation containers), and serves energy markets in a variety of ways.

Equipment is sold globally to customers in the chemical and petrochemical manufacturing, oil and gas recovery and processing, and
steel and primary metals processing industries. The segment also provides a broad range of plant design, engineering, procurement, and construction management services to its customers.

Energy markets are served through the Company’s operation and partial ownership of cogeneration and flue gas desulfurization
facilities. In addition, we are developing hydrogen as an energy carrier, waste-to-energy facilities to produce electricity, carbon capture technologies for a variety of industrial and power applications, and oxygen-based technologies to serve
energy markets in the future. The Company owns and operates a 49-megawatt fluidized-bed coal and biomass-fired power generation facility in Stockton, California, and operates and owns a 47.9% interest in a 112-megawatt gas-fueled power generation
facility in Thailand. The Company also operates and owns a 50% interest in a flue gas desulfurization facility in Indiana.

Steel, aluminum, and capital equipment subcomponents (compressors, etc.) are the principal raw materials in the equipment portion of
this segment. Adequate raw materials for individual projects are acquired under firm purchase agreements. Coal and natural gas are the largest cost components in the production of energy. The Company mitigates these cost components, in part, through
long-term cost pass-through contracts. During fiscal year 2011, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials.

Equipment and Energy competes with a great number of firms for all of its offerings except LNG heat exchangers, for which there are fewer competitors due to the limited market size and proprietary technologies.
Competition is based primarily on technological performance, service, technical know-how, price, and performance guarantees.

The backlog of equipment orders (including letters of intent believed to be firm) from third-party customers was approximately $334 million on 30 September 2011, approximately 30% of which is for
cryogenic equipment and 30% of which is for LNG heat exchangers, as compared with a total backlog of approximately $274 million on 30 September 2010. The Company expects that approximately $200 million of the backlog on
30 September 2011 will be completed during fiscal year 2012.

Narrative Description of the Company’s
Business Generally

The Company, through subsidiaries, affiliates, and less-than-controlling interests, conducts
business in over 40 countries outside the United States. Its international businesses are subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and controls; import and export
controls; and other economic, political, and regulatory policies of local governments.

The Company has majority or
wholly owned foreign subsidiaries that operate in Canada, 17 European countries (including the United Kingdom and Spain), nine Asian countries (including China, Korea, and Taiwan), and three Latin American countries (including Mexico and Brazil).
The Company also owns less-than-controlling interests in entities operating in Europe, Asia, Africa, the Middle East, and Latin America (including Italy, Germany, China, India, Singapore, Thailand, United Arab Emirates, South Africa, and Mexico).







Financial information about the Company’s foreign operations and investments is
included in Notes 8, Summarized Financial Information of Equity Affiliates; 21, Income Taxes; and 24, Business Segment and Geographic Information, to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 herein. Information about foreign
currency translation is included under “Foreign Currency” in Note 1, Major Accounting Policies, and information on the Company’s exposure to currency fluctuations is included in Note 12, Financial Instruments, to the consolidated
financial statements, included under Item 8 below, and in “Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk,” included under Item 7A below. Export sales from operations in the United States to third party customers amounted to $589.7 million,
$570.5 million, and $510.2 million in fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

Technology
Development

The Company pursues a market-oriented approach to technology development through research and
development, engineering, and commercial development processes. It conducts research and development principally in its laboratories located in the United States (Trexlertown, Pennsylvania; Carlsbad, California; Milton, Wisconsin; and Phoenix,
Arizona), the United Kingdom (Basingstoke and Carrington), Germany (Hamburg), the Netherlands (Utrecht), Spain (Barcelona), and Asia (Tokyo, Japan; Shanghai, China; Giheung, Korea; and Chubei, Taiwan). The Company also funds and cooperates in
research and development programs conducted by a number of major universities and undertakes research work funded by others—principally the United States government.

The Company’s corporate research groups, which include science and process technology centers, support the research efforts of
various businesses throughout the Company. Development of technology for use within Merchant Gases, Tonnage Gases, and Equipment and Energy focuses primarily on new and improved processes and equipment for the production and delivery of industrial
gases and new or improved applications for all such products. Research and technology development for Electronics and Performance Materials supports development of new products and applications to strengthen and extend the Company’s present
positions. Work is also performed in Electronics and Performance Materials to lower processing costs and develop new processes for the new products.

Research and development expenditures were $118.8 million during fiscal year 2011, $114.7 million in fiscal year 2010, and $116.3 million in fiscal year 2009. In addition, the Company expended
$29.1 million on customer-sponsored research activities during fiscal year 2011, $23.9 million in fiscal year 2010, and $29.7 million in fiscal year 2009.

As of 1 November 2011, the Company owns 931 United States patents, 2,933 foreign patents, and is a licensee under certain
patents owned by others. While the patents and licenses are considered important, the Company does not consider its business as a whole to be materially dependent upon any particular patent, patent license, or group of patents or licenses.

Environmental Controls

The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which it has operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in higher capital expenditures and costs. From
time to time, the Company is involved in proceedings under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (the federal Superfund law), similar state laws, and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) relating to
the designation of certain sites for investigation and possible cleanup. Additional information with respect to these proceedings is included under Item 3, Legal Proceedings, below. The Company’s accounting policy for environmental
expenditures is discussed in Note 1, Major Accounting Policies, and environmental loss contingencies are discussed in Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements, included under Item 8, below.

The amounts charged to income from continuing operations related to environmental matters totaled $34.0 million in fiscal 2011,
$31.6 million in 2010, and $52.5 million in 2009. These amounts represent an estimate of expenses for compliance with environmental laws, remedial activities, and activities undertaken to meet internal Company standards. The 2009 amount
included a charge of $16.0 million for the Paulsboro site. Refer to Note 16, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on this charge.

Although precise amounts are difficult to determine, the Company estimates that in both fiscal year 2011 and 2010, it spent
approximately $6 million on capital projects to control pollution. Capital expenditures to control pollution in future years are estimated at approximately $6 million in both fiscal year 2012 and 2013. The cost of any environmental
compliance generally is contractually passed through to the customer.

The Company accrues environmental investigatory
and remediation costs for identified sites when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The potential exposure for such costs is estimated to range from $82 million to a reasonably
possible upper exposure of $96 million. The accrual on the consolidated balance sheet for 30 September 2011 was $82.3 million and for 30 September 2010 was $87.0 million.







Actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the estimates, given inherent uncertainties in evaluating environmental exposures. Subject to the imprecision in estimating future
environmental costs, the Company does not expect that any sum it may have to pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of the amounts recorded or disclosed above would have a materially adverse effect on its financial condition or
results of operations in any one year.

Employees

On 30 September 2011, the Company (including majority-owned subsidiaries) had approximately 18,900 employees, of whom
approximately 18,500 were full-time employees and of whom approximately 11,700 were located outside the United States. The Company has collective bargaining agreements with unions at various locations that expire on various dates over the next four
years. The Company considers relations with its employees to be satisfactory and does not believe that the impact of any expiring or expired collective bargaining agreements will result in a material adverse impact on the Company.

Available Information

All periodic and current reports, registration statements, and other filings that the Company is required to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the Company’s annual report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the 1934 Act Reports), are available free of charge
through the Company’s Internet website at www.airproducts.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of the material with the SEC. All 1934 Act Reports filed during the period covered by this
report were available on the Company’s website on the same day as filing.

The public may also read and copy any
materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov.

Seasonality

Although none of the four business segments are subject to seasonal fluctuations to any material extent, the Electronics and Performance Materials segment is susceptible to the cyclical nature of the electronics
industry and to seasonal fluctuations in underlying end-use performance materials markets.

Working Capital

The Company maintains inventory where required to facilitate the supply of products to customers on a reasonable
delivery schedule. Merchant Gases inventory consists primarily of industrial, medical, specialty gas, and crude helium inventories supplied to customers through liquid bulk and packaged gases supply modes. Merchant Gases inventory also includes home
medical equipment to serve healthcare patients. Electronics inventories consist primarily of bulk and packaged specialty gases and chemicals and also include inventories to support sales of equipment and services. Performance Materials inventories
consist primarily of bulk and packaged performance chemical solutions. The Tonnage Gases inventory is primarily Polyurethane Intermediates raw materials and finished goods; on-site plants and pipeline complexes have limited inventory. Equipment and
Energy has limited inventory.

Customers

We do not have a homogeneous customer base or end market, and no single customer accounts for more than 10% of our consolidated
revenues. The Tonnage Gases and Electronics and Performance Materials segments do have concentrations of customers in specific industries, primarily refining, chemicals, and electronics. Within each of these industries, the Company has several
large-volume customers with long-term contracts. A negative trend affecting one of these industries, or the loss of one of these major customers, although not material to our consolidated revenues, could have an adverse impact on the affected
segment.

Governmental Contracts

No segment’s business is subject to a government entity’s renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts that would
be material to our business as a whole.







Executive Officers of the Company

The Company’s executive officers and their respective positions and ages on 21 November 2011 follow.





NameAgeOffice



M. Scott Crocco47Vice President and Corporate Controller (became Vice President in 2007; Corporate Controller in 2006)



Paul E. Huck(A)61Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (became Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2007; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2004)



Stephen J. Jones(A)50Senior Vice President and General Manager, Tonnage Gases, Equipment and Energy and China President (became Senior Vice President and General Manager, Tonnage Gases, Equipment and Energy
and China President in 2011; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Tonnage Gases, Equipment and Energy in 2009; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in 2007; Vice President and Associate General Counsel in 2007)



John W. Marsland(A)45Senior Vice President and General Manager – Merchant Gases (became Senior Vice President and General Manager – Merchant Gases in 2011, Senior Vice President and General Manager,
Electronics, Performance Materials, and Supply Chain in 2011; Senior Vice President, Supply Chain in 2010; Vice President and General Manager, Global Liquid Bulk, Generated Gases and Helium in 2009; Vice President – Business Services in 2008;
Vice President and General Manager – Healthcare in 2006)



John E. McGlade(A)(B)(C)57Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer (became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 2008; President and Chief Operating Officer in 2006)



Lynn C. Minella(A)53Senior Vice President – Human Resources and Communications (became Senior Vice President – Human Resources and Communications in 2007; Vice President – Human Resources in
2004)



Corning F. Painter(A)49Senior Vice President – Supply Chain, Corporate Strategy and Technology (became Senior Vice President – Supply Chain, Corporate Strategy and Technology in 2011; Senior Vice
President- Corporate Strategy and Technology in 2011; Vice President and General Manager, Global Electronics in 2006)



John D. Stanley(A)53Senior Vice President and General Counsel (became Senior Vice President and General Counsel in 2009; Assistant General Counsel, Americas and Europe in
2007)



(A)Member, Corporate Executive Committee

(B)Member, Board of Directors

(C)Member, Executive Committee of the Board of Directors







