ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., a Delaware corporation originally founded in 1940, serves customers globally with a unique portfolio of products, services, and solutions that include atmospheric gases, process and specialty gases, equipment, and services. The Company is the world’s largest supplier of hydrogen and has built leading positions in growth markets such as helium and natural gas liquefaction. As used in this report, unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” the “Company,” or “registrant” include controlled subsidiaries, affiliates, and predecessors of Air Products and its controlled subsidiaries and affiliates.

During its fiscal year ended30 September 2018(“fiscal year2018”), the Company reported its continuing operations in five reporting segments under which it managed its operations, assessed performance, and reported earnings: Industrial Gases – Americas; Industrial Gases – EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa); Industrial Gases – Asia; Industrial Gases – Global; and Corporate and other.

Except as otherwise noted, the description of the Company's business below reflects the Company's continuing operations. Refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note25,Business Segment and Geographic Information, and Note3,Discontinued Operations, to the consolidated financial statements for additional details on our reportable business segments and our discontinued operations.

Industrial Gases Business

The Company’s Industrial Gases business produces atmospheric gases (oxygen, nitrogen, argon, and rare gases); process gases (hydrogen, helium, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, syngas, and specialty gases); and equipment for the production or processing of gases, such as air separation units and non-cryogenic generators. Atmospheric gases are produced through various air separation processes of which cryogenic is the most prevalent. Process gases are produced by methods other than air separation. For example, hydrogen, carbon monoxide and syngas are produced by steam methane reforming of natural gas and by the gasification of liquid and solid hydrocarbons.  Hydrogen is also produced by purifying byproduct sources obtained from the chemical and petrochemical industries; and helium is produced as a byproduct of gases extracted from underground reservoirs, primarily natural gas, but also carbon dioxide purified before resale.









We distribute gases to our customers through a variety of supply modes:

Liquid Bulk—Product is delivered in bulk (in liquid or gaseous form) by tanker or tube trailer and stored, usually in its liquid state, in equipment designed and installed typically by the Company at the customer’s site for vaporizing into a gaseous state as needed. Liquid bulk sales are usually governed by three- to five-year contracts.

Packaged Gases—Small quantities of product are delivered in either cylinders or dewars. The Company operates packaged gas businesses in Europe, Asia, and Latin America. In the United States, the Company’s packaged gas business sells products (principally helium) only for the electronics and magnetic resonance imaging industries.

On-Site Gases—Large quantities of hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, carbon monoxide, and syngas (a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide) are provided to customers, principally the energy production and refining, chemical, gasification, and metals industries worldwide, that require large volumes of gases and have relatively constant demand. Gases are produced at large facilities located adjacent to customers’ facilities or by pipeline systems from centrally located production facilities and are generally governed by 15- to 20- year contracts. The Company also delivers small quantities of product through small on-site plants (cryogenic or non-cryogenic generators), typically either via a 10- to 15- year sale of gas contract or through the sale of the equipment to the customer.

Electricity is the largest cost component in the production of atmospheric gases. Steam methane reformers utilize natural gas as the primary raw material and gasifiers use liquid and solid hydrocarbons as the principal raw material for the production of hydrogen, carbon monoxide and syngas. We mitigate electricity, natural gas, and hydrocarbon price fluctuations contractually through pricing formulas, surcharges, and cost pass-through and tolling arrangements. During fiscal year2018, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of power and natural gas.

The Company obtains helium from a number of sources globally, including crude helium for purification from the U.S. Bureau of Land Management's helium reserve.

The regional Industrial Gases segments also include our share of the results of several joint ventures accounted for by the equity method. The largest of these joint ventures operate in Mexico, Italy, South Africa, India, Saudi Arabia, and Thailand.

Each of the regional Industrial Gases segments competes against two global industrial gas companies: Air Liquide S.A. and Linde plc (the successor to Praxair, Inc. and Linde AG, pursuant to a combination that became effective on 31 October 2018), as well as regional competitors. Competition in Industrial Gases is based primarily on price, reliability of supply, and the development of industrial gas applications. In locations where we have pipeline networks, which enable us to provide reliable and economic supply of products to larger customers, we derive a competitive advantage.

Overall regional industrial gases sales constituted approximately94%of consolidated sales in fiscal year2018,90%in fiscal year2017, and90%in fiscal year2016. Sales of tonnage hydrogen and related products constituted approximately25%of consolidated sales in fiscal year2018,24%in fiscal year2017, and21%in fiscal year2016. Sales of atmospheric gases constituted approximately46%of consolidated sales in fiscal year2018,45%in fiscal year2017, and46%in fiscal year2016.

Industrial Gases Equipment

The Company designs and manufactures equipment for air separation, hydrocarbon recovery and purification, natural gas liquefaction ("LNG"), and liquid helium and liquid hydrogen transport and storage. The Industrial Gases – Global segment includes activity related to cryogenic and gas processing equipment for air separation. The equipment is sold worldwide to customers in a variety of industries, including chemical and petrochemical manufacturing, oil and gas recovery and processing, and steel and primary metals processing. The Corporate and other segment includes three global equipment businesses: our LNG equipment business, our Gardner Cryogenics business fabricating helium and hydrogen transport and storage containers, and our Rotoflow business which manufactures turboexpanders and other precision rotating equipment. Steel, aluminum, and capital equipment subcomponents (compressors, etc.) are the principal raw materials in the manufacturing of equipment. Adequate raw materials for individual projects are acquired under firm purchase agreements. Equipment is produced at the Company’s manufacturing sites with certain components being procured from subcontractors and vendors. Competition in the equipment business is based primarily on technological performance, service, technical know-how, price, and performance guarantees. Sale of equipment constituted approximately6%of consolidated sales in fiscal year2018,10%in fiscal year2017, and10%in fiscal year2016.









The backlog of equipment orders was approximately$.2 billionon30 September 2018(as compared to a total backlog of approximately$.5 billionon30 September 2017). The Company estimates that approximately50%of the total sales backlog as of30 September 2018will be recognized as revenue during fiscal year2019, dependent on execution schedules of the relevant projects.

International Operations

The Company, through subsidiaries, affiliates, and less-than-controlling interests, conducts business in 50 countries outside the United States. Its international businesses are subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and controls; import and export controls; and other economic, political, and regulatory policies of local governments described in Item 1A, Risk Factors, below.

The Company has majority or wholly owned foreign subsidiaries that operate in Canada; 16 European countries (including the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and Spain); eight Asian countries (including China, South Korea, and Taiwan); seven Latin American countries (including Chile and Brazil); four countries in the Middle East, and two African countries. The Company also owns less-than-controlling interests in entities operating in Europe, Asia, Africa, the Middle East, and Latin America (including Italy, Germany, China, India, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Oman, South Africa, and Mexico).

Financial information about the Company’s foreign operations and investments is included in Note8,Summarized Financial Information of Equity Affiliates; Note22,Income Taxes; and Note25,Business Segment and Geographic Information, to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, below. Information about foreign currency translation is included under “Foreign Currency” in Note1,Major Accounting Policies, and information on the Company’s exposure to currency fluctuations is included in Note13,Financial Instruments, to the consolidated financial statements, included under Item 8, below, and in “Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk,” included under Item 7A, below. Export sales from operations in the United States to third-party customers amounted to$33.1million,$64.2million, and$134.9million in fiscal years2018,2017, and2016, respectively.

Technology Development

The Company pursues a market-oriented approach to technology development through research and development, engineering, and commercial development processes. It conducts research and development principally in its laboratories located in the United States (Trexlertown, Pennsylvania), Canada (Vancouver), the United Kingdom (Basingstoke and Carrington), Spain (Barcelona), China (Shanghai), and Saudi Arabia (Dhahran). The Company also funds and cooperates in research and development programs conducted by a number of major universities and undertakes research work funded by others, principally the United States government.

The Company’s research groups are aligned with and support the research efforts of various businesses throughout the Company. Development of technology for use within the Industrial Gases business focuses primarily on new and improved processes and equipment for the production and delivery of industrial gases and new or improved applications for industrial gas products.

During fiscal year2018, the Company owned approximately 535 United States patents, approximately 2,888 foreign patents, and was a licensee under certain patents owned by others. While the patents and licenses are considered important, the Company does not consider its business as a whole to be materially dependent upon any particular patent, patent license, or group of patents or licenses.

Environmental Controls

The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which it has operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in higher capital expenditures and costs. In the normal course of business, the Company is involved in legal proceedings under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA: the federal Superfund law); Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and similar state and foreign environmental laws relating to the designation of certain sites for investigation or remediation. The Company’s accounting policy for environmental expenditures is discussed in Note1,Major Accounting Policies, and environmental loss contingencies are discussed in Note17,Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements, included under Item 8, below.

The amounts charged to income from continuing operations related to environmental matters totaled$12.8 millionin fiscal year2018,$11.4 millionin fiscal year2017, and$12.2 millionin fiscal year2016. These amounts represent an estimate of expenses for compliance with environmental laws and activities undertaken to meet internal Company standards. Refer to Note17,Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.









The Company estimates that we spent approximately$3 millionin fiscal year2018,$7 millionin fiscal year2017, and$3 millionin fiscal year2016on capital projects reflected in continuing operations to control pollution. Capital expenditures to control pollution are estimated to be approximately$4 millionin both fiscal years2019and2020.

Employees

On30 September 2018, the Company (including majority-owned subsidiaries) had approximately16,300employees, of whom approximately 16,000 were full-time employees and of whom approximately 11,800 were located outside the United States. The Company has collective bargaining agreements with unions at various locations that expire on various dates over the next four years. The Company considers relations with its employees to be satisfactory.

Available Information

All periodic and current reports, registration statements, and other filings that the Company is required to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), are available free of charge through the Company’s website at www.airproducts.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of the material with the SEC. All such reports filed during the period covered by this report were available on the Company’s website on the same day as filing. In addition, our filings with the SEC are available free of charge on the SEC's website, www.sec.gov.

Seasonality

The Company’s businesses are not subject to seasonal fluctuations to any material extent.

Inventories

The Company maintains limited inventory where required to facilitate the supply of products to customers on a reasonable delivery schedule. Inventory consists primarily of crude helium, industrial gas, and specialty gas inventories supplied to customers through liquid bulk and packaged gases supply modes.

Customers

We do not have a homogeneous customer base or end market, andno single customer accounts for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. We do have concentrations of customers in specific industries, primarily refining, chemicals, and electronics. Within each of these industries, the Company has several large-volume customers with long-term contracts. A negative trend affecting one of these industries, or the loss of one of these major customers, although not material to our consolidated revenue, could have an adverse impact on our financial results.

Governmental Contracts

Our business is not subject to a government entity’s renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts that would be material to our business as a whole.









Executive Officers of the Company

The Company’s executive officers and their respective positions and ages on20 November 2018follow. Information with respect to offices held is stated in fiscal years.

NameAgeOfficeM. Scott Crocco54Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2016; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2013; and Vice President and Corporate Controller in 2008).Seifi Ghasemi74Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer (became Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer in 2014 and previously served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Rockwood Holdings, Inc. beginning in 2001). Mr. Ghasemi is a member and Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors.Sean D. Major54Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (Secretary since December 2017 and Executive Vice President and General Counsel since May 2017).  Previously, Mr. Major served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary for Joy Global Inc. since 2007.  From 1998 until joining Joy Global Inc. in 2007, Mr. Major was employed by Johnson Controls, Inc., serving in roles of increasing legal responsibility, including Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary.Dr. Samir Serhan57Executive Vice President (since December 2016).  Previously, Dr. Serhan served as President, Global HyCO, since 2014 for Praxair Inc. From 2000-2014, he worked in leadership positions in the U.S. and Germany for The Linde Group, including Managing Director of Linde Engineering from 2008-2014.





