ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General Description of Business

Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. (“we,” “our,” “us,” the “Company,” “Air Products,” or “registrant”), a
Delaware corporation originally founded in 1940, serves energy, electronics, chemicals, metals, and manufacturing customers globally with a unique portfolio of products, services, and solutions that include atmospheric gases, process and specialty
gases, electronics and performance materials, equipment, and services. The Company is the world’s largest supplier of hydrogen and has built leading positions in growth markets such as helium, refinery hydrogen, semiconductor materials, natural
gas liquefaction, and advanced coatings and adhesives. As used in this report, unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” the “Company,” or “registrant” include controlled
subsidiaries, affiliates, and predecessors of Air Products and its controlled subsidiaries and affiliates.

The Company manufactures and distributes products in two
principal lines of business: Industrial Gases and Materials Technologies. Industrial Gases’ primary products are atmospheric gases, process gases, and equipment for air separation. Materials Technologies’ primary products are performance
materials and chemicals, such as epoxy amine curing agents, polyurethane catalysts, additives, and specialty surfactants, and electronics materials such as specialty gases, chemical mechanical planarization slurries, and specialty chemicals. The
Company also designs and manufactures equipment for natural gas liquefaction and helium distribution and is constructing waste-to-energy facilities for the production of electricity.

On 1 October 2014, the Company reorganized its business into seven reporting segments under which it manages its operations, assesses performance and reports
earnings: Industrial Gases – Americas; Industrial Gases – EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa); Industrial Gases – Asia; Industrial Gases – Global; Materials Technologies; Energy-from-Waste; and Corporate and other. Previously,
we organized our operations into four reportable business segments: Merchant Gases, Tonnage Gases, Electronics and Performance Materials, and Equipment and Energy. Refer to Note 26, Business Segment and Geographic Information, to the consolidated
financial statements for additional details on our reportable business segments and segment reorganization.

On 16 September 2015, the Company announced that
its Board of Directors approved a preliminary plan to spin off its Materials Technologies business, subject to customary conditions including regulatory approvals, into a standalone, publicly traded corporation via a distribution to its
shareholders. The targeted completion and final approval of the spin-off is prior to September 2016, subject to approvals. The distribution is intended to be tax-free to the Company and its shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The
results of operations, financial condition and cash flows for the Materials Technologies business to be included in the spin-off are, and will continue to be, presented within the Company’s consolidated financial statements as continuing
operations until the spin-off is complete, at which time the financial presentation of the historical results of this business will be reflected as a discontinued operation.







Narrative Description of Business by Segments

Industrial Gases Business

The Company’s Industrial Gases business
produces atmospheric gases (oxygen, nitrogen, argon, and rare gases), process gases (hydrogen, helium, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, syngas and specialty gases) and equipment for the production or processing of gases such as air separation units
and non-cryogenic generators. Atmospheric gases are produced through various air separation processes of which cryogenic is the most prevalent. Process gases are produced by methods other than air separation. For example, hydrogen is produced by
steam methane reforming of natural gas or by purifying byproduct sources obtained from the chemical and petrochemical industries; and helium is produced mainly as a byproduct of natural gas production and purified before resale. The Company has
recently pioneered new technology for extracting helium from a carbon dioxide steam.

We distribute gases to our
customers through a variety of supply modes:

Liquid Bulk—Product is delivered in bulk (in liquid or gaseous form) by tanker or tube
trailer and stored, usually in its liquid state, in equipment designed and installed typically by the Company at the customer’s site for vaporizing into a gaseous state as needed. Liquid bulk sales are usually governed by three- to five-year
contracts.

Packaged Gases—Small quantities of product are delivered in either cylinders or dewars. The Company operates packaged gas
businesses in Europe, Asia, and Latin America. In the United States, the Company’s packaged gas business sells products only for the electronics and magnetic resonance imaging (principally helium) industries.

On-Site Gases—Large quantities of hydrogen, carbon monoxide, nitrogen, oxygen, and syngas (a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide) are
provided to customers, principally the energy production and refining, chemical, and metallurgical industries worldwide who require large volumes of gases that have relatively constant demand. Gases are produced at large facilities located adjacent
to customers’ facilities or by pipeline systems from centrally located production facilities and are generally governed by 15- to 20- year contracts. The Company also delivers small quantities of product through small on-site plants (cryogenic
or non-cryogenic generators), typically either via a 10- to 15- year sale of gas contract or through the sale of the equipment to the customer.

Electricity is the
largest cost component in the production of atmospheric gases, and natural gas is the principal raw material for hydrogen, carbon monoxide, and syngas production. We mitigate energy and natural gas price fluctuations contractually through pricing
formulas, surcharges, and cost pass-through arrangements. During fiscal year 2015, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of power and natural gas.

The regional Industrial Gases segments also include our share of the results of several joint ventures accounted for by the equity method. The largest of these joint
ventures operate in Mexico, Italy, South Africa, India, Saudi Arabia, and Thailand.







Each of the regional Industrial Gases segments competes against three global industrial gas companies: Air Liquide S.A.,
Linde AG, and Praxair, Inc.; as well as regional competitors, including Airgas, Inc. Competition in Industrial Gases is based primarily on price, reliability of supply, and the development of industrial gas applications. In locations where we have
pipeline networks, which enable us to provide reliable and economic supply of products to larger customers, we derive a competitive advantage.

Overall regional
industrial gases sales constituted approximately 76% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2015, 77% in fiscal year 2014, and 78% in fiscal year 2013. Sales of tonnage hydrogen and related products constituted approximately 19% of consolidated sales
in fiscal year 2015, 22% in fiscal year 2014 and 21% in fiscal year 2013. Sales of atmospheric gases constituted approximately 35% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2015, 33% in fiscal year 2014 and 35% in fiscal year 2013.

Industrial Gases Equipment

The Company designs and manufactures equipment for
air separation, hydrocarbon recovery and purification, natural gas liquefaction (LNG), and liquid helium and liquid hydrogen transport and storage. The Industrial Gases – Global segment includes cryogenic and non-cryogenic equipment for air
separation. The equipment is sold worldwide to customers in a variety of industries, including chemical and petrochemical manufacturing, oil and gas recovery, and processing and steel and primary metals processing. Other activities, which are
managed globally instead of regionally, are also part of this segment, such as technology development for air separation. The Corporate and other segment includes two global equipment businesses, our LNG sale of equipment business and our liquid
helium and liquid hydrogen transport and storage containers business. Steel, aluminum, and capital equipment subcomponents (compressors, etc.) are the principal raw materials in the manufacturing of equipment in this business segment. Adequate raw
materials for individual projects are acquired under firm purchase agreements. Equipment is produced at the Company’s manufacturing sites with certain components being procured from subcontractors and vendors. Competition in the equipment
business is based primarily on technological performance, service, technical know-how, price and performance guarantees.

The backlog of equipment orders (including
letters of intent believed to be firm) was approximately $1.9 billion on 30 September 2015 (as compared with a total backlog of approximately $520 million on 30 September 2014). The increase in the sales backlog primarily results from
a new multi-year contract with a joint venture in Jazan, Saudi Arabia for the construction of an industrial gas facility that will supply gases to Saudi Aramco. Revenue from this contract is recognized under the percent complete method based on
costs incurred to date compared with total costs to be incurred. The Company estimates that up to 85% of the total sales backlog as of 30 September 2015 will not be recognized as revenue during fiscal year 2016, dependent on execution schedules
of the relevant projects.

Energy-from-Waste

The Energy-from-Waste
business consists of two projects that are under construction in Tees Valley, United Kingdom. These projects are designed to process waste materials and generate renewable power for customers under long-term contracts. In November 2015, the Company
suspended construction of the second project until certain design issues of the first project are understood, remediated, and can be efficiently integrated into the design of the second project.

Materials Technologies

Materials Technologies is a global business that
delivers innovation-driven solutions for specific customer applications within niche markets. This segment employs applications technology to provide solutions to a broad range of global industries through chemical synthesis, analytical technology,
process engineering, and surface science. It is comprised of two business divisions: Performance Materials, which is focused on a portfolio of additives products that provide high value properties at low cost across a variety of industries, and
Electronics Materials, which is focused on supplying critical materials and equipment to the semiconductor industry.

The Performance Materials Division is based on
critical competencies in specialty amines, alkoxylates and silicone chemistries. The business provides a range of products concentrated in the areas of epoxy curing agents, accelerators and catalysts, polyurethane catalysts, surfactants and
curatives and specialty additives, including surfactants, wetting agents, dispersants and de-foaming agents. The products are used in a variety of industry applications, including coatings, inks, adhesives, construction and civil engineering,
personal care, institutional and industrial cleaning, mining, oil refining, and polyurethanes. The Performance Materials businesses focus on the development of new additive materials aimed at providing unique technologies and functionality.







The Electronics Materials Division maintains critical competencies in molecular design, formulation expertise and
ultra-high purity chemistry. This division provides the semiconductor industry with high purity process materials for deposition, metallization, chamber cleaning and etching, chemicals mechanical planarization slurries, organosilanes, organometalics
and liquid dopants for thin film deposition, formulated chemical products for post-etch cleaning and delivery equipment and services primarily for the manufacture of silicon and compound semiconductors and thin film transistor liquid crystal
displays.

Both businesses are based on strong customer relationships and collaborative development, technology and innovation leadership, unique product
positioning, and a strong global infrastructure with in-region flexible manufacturing capabilities. The segment maintains manufacturing operations in North America, Europe and Asia and manages a complex global supply chain. Products are delivered in
bulk containers of different sizes, some of which are returnable.

Materials Technologies uses a wide variety of raw materials including amines and amine
derivatives, alcohols and surfactants, tungsten powder, ethylene oxide, and ketones. During fiscal year 2015, no significant difficulties were encountered in obtaining adequate supplies of energy or raw materials.

Materials Technologies faces competition on a product-by-product basis against competitors ranging from niche suppliers with a single product to larger and more
vertically integrated companies. Competition is principally conducted on the basis of price, quality, product performance, reliability of product supply, technical innovation, service, and global infrastructure.

Total sales from Materials Technologies constituted approximately 21% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2015, 20% in fiscal year 2014, and 18% in fiscal year 2013.
Performance Materials Division sales constituted approximately 11% of consolidated sales in fiscal year 2015, 11% in fiscal year 2014 and 10% in fiscal year 2013, and Electronics Materials Division sales constituted approximately 10% of consolidated
sales in fiscal year 2015, 9% in fiscal year 2014 and 8% in fiscal year 2013.

Narrative Description of the Company’s Business Generally

The Company, through subsidiaries, affiliates, and less-than-controlling interests, conducts business in 50 countries outside the United States. Its international
businesses are subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and controls; import and export controls; and other economic, political, and regulatory policies of local
governments.

The Company has majority or wholly owned foreign subsidiaries that operate in Canada, 17 European countries (including the United Kingdom, the
Netherlands, and Spain), 11 Asian countries (including China, Korea, and Taiwan), 7 Latin American countries (including Chile and Brazil), 2 African countries, and 1 Middle Eastern country. The Company also owns less-than-controlling interests in
entities operating in Europe, Asia, Africa, the Middle East, and Latin America (including Italy, Germany, China, India, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Thailand, United Arab Emirates, South Africa, and Mexico).

Financial information about the Company’s foreign operations and investments is included in Note 8, Summarized Financial Information of Equity Affiliates; Note 23,
Income Taxes; and Note 26, Business Segment and Geographic Information, to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, herein. Information about foreign currency translation is included under “Foreign Currency” in
Note 1, Major Accounting Policies, and information on the Company’s exposure to currency fluctuations is included in Note 13, Financial Instruments, to the consolidated financial statements, included under Item 8, below, and in
“Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk,” included under Item 7A, below. Export sales from operations in the United States to third-party customers amounted to $398.8 million, $378.7 million, and $410.3 million in fiscal years 2015,
2014, and 2013, respectively.

Technology Development

The Company pursues
a market-oriented approach to technology development through research and development, engineering, and commercial development processes. It conducts research and development principally in its laboratories located in the United States (Trexlertown,
Pennsylvania; Carlsbad, California; Milton, Wisconsin; and Phoenix, Arizona), Canada (Vancouver), the United Kingdom (Basingstoke and Carrington), Germany (Hamburg), the Netherlands (Utrecht), Spain (Barcelona), Japan (Kawasaki), China (Shanghai),
Korea (Giheung), and Taiwan (Chupei and Hsinchu City). The Company also funds and cooperates in research and development programs conducted by a number of major universities and undertakes research work funded by others—principally the United
States government.







The Company’s research groups are aligned with and support the research efforts of various businesses throughout the
Company. Development of technology for use within the Industrial Gases business focuses primarily on new and improved processes and equipment for the production and delivery of industrial gases and new or improved applications for industrial gas
products. Research and technology development for Materials Technologies supports development of new products and applications to strengthen and extend the Company’s present positions as well as to lower processing costs and develop new
processes for the new products.

Research and development expenditures were $138.8 million during fiscal year 2015, $141.4 million in fiscal year 2014, and $133.7
million in fiscal year 2013. In addition, the Company expended $6.0 million on customer-sponsored research activities during fiscal year 2015, $18.9 million in fiscal year 2014, and $45.5 million in fiscal year 2013.

The Company owns approximately 1,000 United States patents, approximately 4,000 foreign patents, and is a licensee under certain patents owned by others. While the
patents and licenses are considered important, the Company does not consider its business as a whole to be materially dependent upon any particular patent, patent license, or group of patents or licenses.

Environmental Controls

The Company is subject to various environmental laws
and regulations in the countries in which it has operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in higher capital expenditures and costs. In the normal course of business, the Company is involved in proceedings under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), the federal Superfund law; Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and similar state and foreign environmental laws relating to the designation of certain sites
for investigation or remediation. Additional information with respect to these proceedings is included under Item 3, Legal Proceedings, below. The Company’s accounting policy for environmental expenditures is discussed in Note 1, Major
Accounting Policies, and environmental loss contingencies are discussed in Note 17, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements, included under Item 8, below.

The amounts charged to income from continuing operations related to environmental matters totaled $28.3 million in fiscal 2015, $35.1 million in 2014, and $37.1 million
in 2013. These amounts represent an estimate of expenses for compliance with environmental laws and activities undertaken to meet internal Company standards. Refer to Note 17, Commitments and Contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements
for additional information.

The Company estimates that we spent $4.0 million in 2015 and $5.0 million in 2014 on capital projects to control pollution. Capital
expenditures to control pollution in future years are estimated to be approximately $4.0 million in both 2016 and 2017.

Employees

On 30 September 2015, the Company (including majority-owned subsidiaries) had approximately 19,700 employees, of whom approximately 19,400 were full-time employees
and of whom approximately 12,500 were located outside the United States. The Company has collective bargaining agreements with unions at various locations that expire on various dates over the next four years. The Company considers relations with
its employees to be satisfactory.

Available Information

All periodic and
current reports, registration statements, and other filings that the Company is required to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the 1934 Act Reports), are available free of charge through the Company’s Internet website at
www.airproducts.com. Such documents are available as soon as reasonably practicable after electronic filing of the material with the SEC. All 1934 Act Reports filed during the period covered by this report were available on the Company’s
website on the same day as filing.

The public may also read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100
F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy, and information statements,
and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov.







Seasonality

Although the
Company’s businesses are not subject to seasonal fluctuations to any material extent, Materials Technologies is susceptible to the cyclical nature of the electronics industry and to seasonal fluctuations in underlying end-use performance
materials markets.

Working Capital

Due to the anticipated spin-off of
our Materials Technologies business in 2016, our debt portfolio has a higher balance of short-term borrowings and long-term debt due within the next 12 months, which has resulted in negative working capital as of 30 September 2015. Maintaining
the short-term borrowing balance at its current level provides flexibility in how we manage cash flows associated with the anticipated spin-off.

The Company
maintains inventory where required to facilitate the supply of products to customers on a reasonable delivery schedule. Industrial Gases’ inventory consists primarily of industrial, specialty gas, and crude helium inventories supplied to
customers through liquid bulk and packaged gases supply modes. Materials Technologies’ inventories consist primarily of bulk and packaged specialty gases and chemicals, bulk and packaged performance chemical solutions and also include
inventories to support sales of equipment and services.

Customers

We do
not have a homogeneous customer base or end market, and no single customer accounts for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. We do have concentrations of customers in specific industries, primarily refining, chemicals, and electronics. Within
each of these industries, the Company has several large-volume customers with long-term contracts. A negative trend affecting one of these industries, or the loss of one of these major customers, although not material to our consolidated revenue,
could have an adverse impact on the affected segment.

Governmental Contracts

No segment’s business is subject to a government entity’s renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts that would be material to our business as a
whole.







Executive Officers of the Company

The Company’s executive officers and their respective positions and ages on 24 November 2015 follow.

Information with respect to offices held is stated in fiscal years.



NameAgeOfficeM. Scott Crocco51Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (became Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2013 and Vice President and Corporate Controller in 2008).Seifi Ghasemi71Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer (became Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer in 2014 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Rockwood Holdings, Inc. in 2001). Mr. Ghasemi is a member and
Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors.Guillermo Novo53Executive Vice President Material Technologies (became Executive Vice President Material Technologies in 2015; Senior Vice President and General Manager - Electronics, Performance Materials, Strategy and Technology in 2012; and
Group Vice President, Dow Coating Materials at Dow Chemical Company in 2010).Corning F. Painter53Executive Vice President Industrial Gases (became Executive Vice President Industrial Gases in 2015; Senior Vice President and General Manager - Merchant Gases in 2014: Senior Vice President - Supply Chain in 2012; Senior Vice
President - Corporate Strategy and Technology in 2011; and Vice President and General Manager, Global Electronics in 2007).John D. Stanley57Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Administrative Officer (became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Administrative Officer in 2013; and Senior Vice President and General Counsel in 2009).







