10-K


w95011e10vk.htm

10-K FOR AMETEK

e10vk

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31,

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period
from                               to

Commission file number 1-12981

AMETEK, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code:

(610) 647-2121

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.

x

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant
is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).

x

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this
Form 10-K.

x

The aggregate market value of the voting stock
held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30,
2003, was $1,210,820,087, the last business day of
registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter.

The number of shares of common stock outstanding
as of February 27, 2004, was 67,166,216.

Documents Incorporated By Reference

Part III incorporates information by
reference from the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders on May 18, 2004.

AMETEK, Inc.

2003 Form 10-K Annual Report



PART I

Item 1.

Business

General Development of Business

AMETEK, Inc. (“AMETEK” or the
“Company”) is incorporated in Delaware. Its
predecessor was originally incorporated in Delaware in 1930
under the name of American Machine and Metals, Inc. The Company
maintains its principal executive offices in suburban
Philadelphia, PA at 37 North Valley Road, Paoli, PA 19301.
AMETEK is a leading global manufacturer of electronic
instruments and electric motors with operations in North
America, Europe, Asia, and South America. The Company is listed
on the New York Stock Exchange and the Pacific Stock Exchange
(symbol: AME). AMETEK is a component of the Russell 1000 and the
S&P MidCap 400 indices.

Website Access to Information

The Company’s annual report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports
filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of
charge on the Company’s Internet website at www.ametek.com
as soon as practicable after such material is electronically
filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission. In advance of its 2004 annual shareholders meeting,
the Company will post, free of charge, to the investor
information portion of its website, its corporate governance
guidelines, board committee charters and codes of ethics.

Recent Developments

Stock Split.

On
January 27, 2004, the Company’s Board of Directors
approved a two-for-one split of its common stock, distributed on
February 27, 2004, to shareholders of record on
February 13, 2004. By splitting its common stock, the
Company expects to broaden the stock’s marketability and
improve its trading liquidity. All share and per share
information included in this Form 10-K is presented on a
post-stock split basis.

Dividend Increase.

On January 27, 2004, the Company’s Board of Directors
approved a 100% increase to its quarterly cash dividend on its
common stock, to an indicated annual rate of $0.24 per share on
a post-stock split basis. The first increased quarterly dividend
is payable on March 26, 2004 to shareholders of record on
March 12, 2004.

Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan
Change.

Beginning in 2004, the Company
adopted a change in the composition of its long-term
compensation plan. The long-term incentive plan for officers of
the Company and other senior management personnel will be
composed of approximately 50% restricted stock and 50% stock
options for new awards, rather than primarily stock options as
it had been previously. This change will result in the Company
expensing approximately one-half of its future long-term
compensation awards under current accounting rules. The Company
believes this new arrangement will enhance the Company’s
ability to attract and retain management talent.

Financing.

On
February 27, 2004, the Company announced that it had
amended its $300 million Revolving Credit Facility to
extend the expiration date from September 2006 to February 2009.
The new 5-year term of this Credit Facility provides the Company
with increased flexibility to support its growth plans including
its successful acquisition strategy. Other key terms of the
Credit Facility were unchanged.

Products and Services

The Company markets its products worldwide
through two operating groups, the Electronic Instruments Group
(“EIG”) and the Electromechanical Group
(“EMG”). EIG builds technologically advanced
monitoring, testing, and calibration instruments and display
devices for the process, aerospace, industrial and power
markets. The Company believes that EMG is the world’s
largest manufacturer of air-moving electric motors for vacuum
cleaners and other floor care products and is a prominent
producer of brushless air-moving motors for aerospace,
mass-transit, medical and office product markets. EMG also
produces specialty metals for


automotive, consumer, electronics,
telecommunications and other markets and offers switches for
motive and stationary power systems. The Company continues to
grow through strategic acquisitions primarily focused on
differentiated niche markets in instrumentation, technical
motors and specialty metals.

Competitive Strengths

Management believes that the Company has several
significant competitive advantages that assist it in sustaining
and enhancing its market positions. Its principal strengths
include:

Significant Market
Share.

AMETEK maintains significant
share in many of its targeted niche markets because of its
ability to produce and deliver high-quality products at
competitive prices. In EIG, the Company maintains significant
market positions in many niche segments within the aerospace,
process, industrial, analytical and power instrumentation
markets. In EMG, the Company believes it is the largest
manufacturer of air-moving electric motors for the global floor
care market. It also believes that its significant market share
along with its new and expanded low-cost motor manufacturing
plants allows it to capitalize on new market opportunities and
expand its electromechanical product lines.

Technological and Development
Capabilities.

AMETEK believes it has
certain technological advantages over its competitors that allow
it to develop innovative products and maintain leading market
positions. Historically, the Company has grown by extending its
technical expertise into the manufacture of customized products
for its customers as well as through strategic acquisitions. EIG
competes primarily on the basis of product innovation in several
highly specialized instrumentation markets, including process
measurement, heavy-vehicle dashboard and aerospace instruments.
An example of EIG’s ability to take a technical innovation
developed for one market into a related market was the
leveraging of its core competency in jet engine temperature
sensors in developing similar products for power generation
applications, particularly land-based gas turbines. EMG focuses
on low-cost design and manufacturing, while enhancing
motor-blower performance through advances in power, efficiency,
lighter weight and quieter operation. The Company believes that
EMG’s leadership in motor technology has allowed it to
develop a range of product features for its motors and
motor-blowers that continue to create new market opportunities
for its products.

Efficient and Low-Cost Manufacturing
Operations.

AMETEK has motor
manufacturing plants in China, the Czech Republic, Mexico and
Brazil to lower its costs and achieve strategic proximity to its
customers, providing the opportunity to increase international
sales and market share in EMG. Certain of the Company’s
electronic instrument businesses are relocating manufacturing
operations to low-cost locales. Furthermore, strategic
acquisitions and joint ventures in Europe, North America and
Asia have resulted in additional cost savings and synergies
through the consolidation of operations, product lines and
distribution channels that benefit both operating groups.

Experienced Management
Team.

Another key component of
AMETEK’s success is the strength of its management team and
its commitment to the performance of the Company. AMETEK’s
senior management has extensive experience averaging more than
eighteen years with the Company, and is financially committed to
the Company’s success through Company-established stock
ownership guidelines based on a set of salary multiples.

Business Strategy

AMETEK’s objectives are to increase the
Company’s earnings and financial returns through a
combination of operational and financial strategies. Those
operational strategies include business acquisitions and
cost-reduction programs designed to achieve double-digit annual
percentage growth in earnings per share and a superior return on
total capital. To support those operational objectives,
financial initiatives have been, or may be, undertaken,
including public and private debt or equity issuance, bank debt
refinancing, local-source financing in certain foreign
countries, accounts receivable securitization and share
repurchases. AMETEK’s commitment to earnings growth is
reflected in its continued implementation of cost-reduction
programs designed to offset the impact of a difficult economic
environment and achieve the Company’s long-term best-cost
objectives.


AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan consists of
four key strategies:

Strategic Acquisitions and
Alliances.

The Company continues to
pursue strategic acquisitions, both domestically and
internationally, to expand and strengthen its product lines,
improve its market share positions and increase earnings through
sales growth and operational efficiencies at the acquired
businesses. Since the beginning of 2001, to the date of this
report, the Company has completed six acquisitions with
annualized sales totaling approximately $270 million,
including 2003 acquisitions representing approximately
$120 million in annualized revenues (see “Recent
Acquisitions”). Those acquisitions have enhanced
AMETEK’s position in analytical instrumentation, technical
motors, electromechanical products and electrical power
instruments and systems. Through these and prior acquisitions,
the Company’s management team has gained considerable
experience in successfully acquiring and integrating new
businesses. The Company intends to continue to pursue this
acquisition strategy.

Global and Market
Expansion.

AMETEK’s largest
international presence is in Europe, where it has operations in
Denmark, Italy, Germany, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom,
France, Austria and the Netherlands. These operations provide
design and engineering capability, product line breadth,
enhanced European distribution channels, and low-cost production
for both electronic instruments and electromechanical devices.
AMETEK has a leading market position in European floor care
motors and a significant presence in many of its instrument
businesses. It has grown sales in Latin America and Asia by
building and expanding low-cost electric motor and instrument
plants in Reynosa, Mexico, and motor manufacturing plants near
Sao Paulo, Brazil and in Shanghai, China. It also continues to
achieve geographic expansion and increased market expansion in
Asia through joint ventures in China, Taiwan, Japan and South
Korea and a direct sales and marketing presence in Singapore,
Japan, China, Taiwan and Hong Kong.

New Product
Development.

Through its new product
development efforts, AMETEK seeks to improve its existing market
positions and enter complementary markets.

Among the new products introduced by EIG in 2003
are the Detective

TM

and Detective-EX

TM

advanced portable nuclear detection systems. These
high-performance, high-resolution systems are part of a suite of
technologies that is being developed by AMETEK to detect
potentially dangerous radioactive materials at border crossings,
cargo ship docks and transportation terminals.

In 2003, EIG also launched the
ProMaxion

TM

process mass spectrometer that provides
pharmaceutical manufacturers with continuous, real-time
monitoring and control of pharmaceutical manufacturing
processes. The ProMaxion places AMETEK at the forefront of the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s drive for improved
pharmaceutical process analysis.

EIG also launched the UniScan

TM

and
IntelliScan

TM

families of continuous ultrasonic
devices in 2003, which represent the next generation in
continuous level measurement for process and industrial markets.

During 2003, EMG introduced a premium line of
WINDJAMMER® brushless blowers that feature the latest
electronic control technology. The new Intelligen WINDJAMMER
premium BLDC blower incorporates a state-of-the-art
microprocessor control and digital signal processor technology
allowing designers both increased flexibility for direct
customization by application and a more precise control system.

In Global Floor Care Motors, AMETEK partnered
with leading floor care equipment manufacturers on further
enhancements to its line of Acustek® Plus low-noise
commercial vacuum motors. The patented Acustek Plus design
features a unique air inlet and air diffusion system that
greatly reduces working noise levels.

Operational Excellence.

Operational Excellence is
AMETEK’s keystone strategy for improving profit margins and
strengthening the Company’s competitive position across its
businesses. Through its Operational Excellence strategy, the
Company seeks to reduce production costs and improve its market
positions. The strategy has played a key role in achieving
synergies from newly acquired companies. AMETEK believes that
Operational Excellence’s focus on flow manufacturing and
its emphasis on team building and a participative management
culture have enabled the Company to improve operating
efficiencies and product quality,


increase customer satisfaction and yield higher
cash flow from operations, while significantly lowering
operating and administrative costs and shortening manufacturing
cycle times.

2003 Overview

Operating Performance

In 2003, AMETEK generated sales of nearly
$1.1 billion, and increased net income by 5% despite a
difficult economic environment for the manufacturing sector. The
Company set records for sales, operating income, net income and
diluted earnings per share. This strong performance was driven
primarily by the contribution of recently acquired businesses
and by the Company’s continuing cost-reduction initiatives.

AMETEK generated cash flow from operating
activities during 2003 that totaled $155 million, a 49%
increase from 2002. The primary contributors to that growth in
cash flow were increased earnings, coupled with a continued
focus on reducing operating working capital and lower
contributions to the Company’s defined benefit pension
plans.

Share Repurchase Program

Early in 2003, the Company repurchased 380,000
shares of its common stock for approximately $5.8 million
under a previous share repurchase program. On March 12,
2003, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a new
$50 million share repurchase program, adding to the
$2.4 million remaining balance from the earlier program. As
of December 31, 2003, $52.4 million was available for
future share repurchases.

Recent Acquisitions

On January 13, 2003, AMETEK acquired
Airtechnology Holdings Limited (“Airtechnology”) from
Candover Partners Limited for approximately 50 million
British pounds sterling or approximately $80 million in
cash. Airtechnology is a leading supplier of motors, fans and
environmental control systems for aerospace and defense markets.
It has annualized sales of 29 million British pounds
sterling, or approximately $46 million. Airtechnology is
part of the EMG business segment.

Effective as of February 28, 2003, AMETEK
purchased Solidstate Controls, Inc. (“Solidstate
Controls”) from Marmon Industrial Companies LLC for
approximately $34 million in cash. Solidstate Controls is a
leading supplier of Uninterruptible Power Supply systems for the
process and power generation industries. Solidstate Controls is
headquartered in Columbus, Ohio, and has annualized sales of
$45 million. Solidstate Controls is part of the EIG
business segment.

On August 29, 2003 AMETEK acquired Chandler
Instruments Company, LLC, a leading manufacturer of high-quality
measurement instrumentation for the oil and gas industry for
approximately $49 million in cash. Headquartered in Tulsa,
OK, Chandler Instruments has annualized sales of approximately
$30 million. Chandler Instruments is part of the EIG
business segment.

Financial Information about Operating
Segments, Foreign Operations, and Export Sales

Reportable segment and geographic information is
shown on pages 54-56 of this report.

The Company’s Global and Market Expansion
growth strategy is subject to certain risks that are inherent in
conducting business outside the United States. Those include
fluctuations in currency exchange rates and controls,
restrictions on the movement of funds, import and export
controls, and other economic, political and regulatory policies
of the countries in which business is conducted.

The Company’s foreign sales (approximately
40% of total sales in 2003) has resulted from a combination of
increases in export sales of products manufactured in the United
States and sales from overseas operations.


Description of Business

The products and markets of each operating
segment are described below:

EIG

EIG applies its specialized market focus and
technology to produce testing, monitoring and calibration
instruments for the aerospace, power, process, and industrial
markets. EIG’s growth is based on the four strategies
outlined in AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan. EIG designs
products that are significantly different from, or
technologically better than, competing products. It has reduced
costs by implementing operational improvements, achieving
acquisition synergies, improving supply chain management, moving
production to low cost locales and reducing headcount. EIG is
among the leaders in many of the specialized markets it serves,
including aerospace engine sensors, heavy-vehicle instrument
panels, analytical instrumentation, level measurement products,
power instruments and pressure gauges. It also has joint venture
manufacturing operations in Japan, China and Taiwan.
Approximately 36.0% of EIG’s 2003 sales were to markets
outside the United States.

EIG employs approximately 3,600 people, of
whom approximately 700 are covered by collective bargaining
agreements. Three of EIG’s collective bargaining
agreements, which cover approximately 200 employees, will
expire in 2004. The Company expects no material adverse effects
from the pending labor contract negotiations. EIG has
33 manufacturing facilities: 26 in the United States,
4 in Europe, 2 in South America and 1 in Canada. EIG also shares
manufacturing facilities with EMG in Mexico.

Aerospace and Power Instruments Markets and
    Products

Approximately 38% of EIG sales are from aerospace
and power products. AMETEK’s aerospace products are
designed to customer specifications and are manufactured to
stringent operational and reliability requirements. Its
aerospace business operates in specialized markets, where its
products have a technological and/or cost advantage.
Acquisitions have complemented and expanded EIG’s core
sensor and transducer product line, used in a wide range of
industrial and aerospace applications.

Aerospace products include airborne data systems,
turbine engine temperature measurement products,
vibration-monitoring systems, indicators and displays, fuel and
fluid measurement products, sensors, switches, cable harnesses
and transducers. EIG serves all segments of commercial
aerospace, including helicopters, business jets, commuter
aircraft, and commercial airliners, as well as the military
market.

Among its more significant competitive advantages
are EIG’s 50-plus years of experience as an aerospace
supplier and its long-standing customer relationships with
global commercial aircraft OEMs. Its customers are the leading
producers of airframes and jet engines. It also serves the
commercial aerospace aftermarket with spare part sales and
repair and overhaul services.

EIG is a leader in the development and
manufacture of sensor systems for gas turbine engines and for
boilers and burners used by the utility, petrochemical, process,
and marine industries worldwide. That core technology initially
was developed for aerospace but was adapted by AMETEK for
land-based gas turbines. EIG is also a leader in the design and
manufacture of power measurement and recording instrumentation
used by the electric power and manufacturing industries. Those
products include power transducers and meters, event and
transient recorders, annunciators and alarm monitoring systems
used to measure, monitor and record variables in the
transmission and distribution of electric power.

The February 2003 acquisition of Solidstate
Controls brings a line of Uninterruptible Power Supply systems
for the process and power generation industries to EIG.

Process Instruments Markets and
    Products

Approximately 46% of EIG sales are from
instruments for process measurement and analysis. These include
oxygen, moisture, combustion and liquid analyzers; emission
monitors; mass spectrometers; mechanical and electronic pressure
sensors and transmitters; level measurement devices; and
force-measurement and


materials testing instrumentation. EIG’s
focus is on process industries, including oil, gas and
petrochemical refining, power generation, specialty gas
production, water and waste treatment, natural gas distribution
and semiconductor manufacture. AMETEK is the world leader in the
analysis of tail gas in refinery sulfur recovery processes.

The EDAX and IRAS businesses acquired in 2001
significantly expanded AMETEK’s position in laboratory
instrumentation. EDAX manufactures and markets energy dispersive
X-ray microanalysis instrumentation used in electron microscope
systems to identify and quantify the elemental composition and
structure of solid materials. The IRAS business greatly extended
AMETEK’s capabilities in the measurement of physical
properties with instruments that are used in environmental
monitoring, detection of nuclear and chemical weapons, and
laboratory research. IRAS also produces instrumentation for
electronic signal processing and electrochemical applications.
As part of the IRAS acquisition, AMETEK acquired a 49% ownership
position in Seiko EG&G Co., Ltd., a joint venture that
serves as the exclusive distributor of IRAS’s Ortec®
product line in Japan.

EIG’s Test & Calibration Instruments
(T&CI) business manufactures a comprehensive line of
force-measurement and materials testing devices in the United
States and Europe. These include hand-held force measurement
gauges and test stands. T&CI also provides analytical
software and support services. T&CI’s products are
marketed worldwide under the Chatillon, Lloyd, Erichsen, Jofra,
and Davenport brand names through a global network of
distributors, sales representatives, and direct sales.

EIG is among the leading North American
manufacturers of pressure gauges, a market that has been
adversely affected by low-cost products manufactured offshore.
EIG has addressed this issue by participating in a 50%-owned
joint venture that manufactures low-cost pressure gauges in
China and Taiwan, where the joint venture also markets the
products, and by refocusing its domestic manufacturing on more
advanced pressure measurement products.

Chandler Instruments, acquired in August 2003,
manufactures measurement instrumentation for the oil and gas
industry. Chandler is a world leader in drilling and completion
instruments for the oil and gas production markets. Chandler
also produces vapor pressure instruments, flash point analyzers
and spectrometers.

Industrial Instrumentation Markets and
    Products

Approximately 16% of EIG sales are to the
industrial instrumentation market.

EIG’s Dixson business is a leading North
American manufacturer of dashboard instruments for heavy trucks,
and is also a major supplier of similar products for
construction, agricultural, and off-road vehicles. It has a
strong product development capability in solid-state instruments
that primarily monitor engine-operating parameters.

Through its NCC business, EIG has a leading
position in the food service instrumentation market and is a
primary source for stand-alone and integrated timing controls
for the food service industry. On February 23, 2004, AMETEK
acquired technology related to a line of electronic fryer
cooking controls for the commercial food service industry. This
technology complements and expands EIG’s other products
serving the food service industry, including cooking and brewing
controls for a wide range of commercial appliance applications.

The Chemical Products division is a custom
compounder of engineered thermoplastic resins that offer
enhanced strength, temperature resistance and other properties
for automotive, consumer appliance, electronics, and
telecommunications applications. It also produces
fluoropolymer-based products for heat exchangers.

Customers

EIG is not dependent on any single customer such
that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse
effect on EIG’s operations. Approximately 20% of EIG’s
2003 sales were made to its five largest customers, and no one
customer accounted for more than 10% of 2003 consolidated sales.


EMG

The Company believes EMG is the world’s
largest producer of high-speed, air-moving electric motors for
OEMs of floor care products. It designs and manufactures small
vacuum motors with fans that rotate at high speeds and require
advanced manufacturing technology. EMG addresses complex
motor-blower dynamics, including heat, noise, vibration and wear
in designing its customized products. EMG also is a leader in
the production of brushless DC motors and motor-blowers and a
niche producer of specialty metal products used in automotive,
electronics, telecommunications, consumer and other markets. EMG
holds a leading market share for its electric vacuum motors in
North America and Western Europe and is focused on expanding its
share in a growing Asian market. It has expanded its operations
worldwide by leveraging manufacturing and technological
expertise developed over many years.

EMG uses its technical expertise in the
manufacture of high-speed, air-moving electric motors to
penetrate a variety of targeted markets, including floor care
and small appliances. It has formed alliances with OEM customers
to design and manufacture cost-effective products for numerous
floor care applications and is using its technical and marketing
skills to further penetrate other markets, such as outdoor power
equipment and personal care products.

To achieve greater global penetration and further
reduce costs, EMG is building on its market leadership in North
American and European floor care by expanding its electric motor
production operations in China, Mexico, the Czech Republic and
Brazil. Approximately 44.1% of EMG’s 2003 sales were to
customers outside the United States.

EMG employs approximately 4,100 people, of whom
approximately 2,200 are covered by collective bargaining
agreements (including some that are covered by local unions). It
has 21 manufacturing facilities: 10 in the United States, 4 in
the United Kingdom, 2 in Italy, 2 in Mexico, 1 in China, 1 in
the Czech Republic, and 1 in Brazil. As part of its ongoing
efforts to relocate production to low-cost facilities, EMG
closed its Chambersburg, PA motor plant in 2003 and relocated
its production to the Reynosa, Mexico and Shanghai, China
facilities.

EMG’s flexible production lines are designed
for low-cost, high-volume operations. Advanced technological
capability allowed EMG to provide its customers with
custom-designed products and the Group produced approximately
25 million motors in 2003.

Floor Care Markets and Products

Approximately 34% of EMG sales are to floor care
markets, where it has the leading share, through its sales of
air-moving electric motors to most of the world’s major
floor care OEMs, including vertically integrated OEMs that
produce some of their own motors. EMG produces motor-blowers for
a full range of floor care products, ranging from hand-held,
canister, and upright vacuums to central vacuums for residential
use. High-performance vacuum motors also are marketed for
commercial and industrial applications.

EMG has been successful in directing a portion of
its global floor care marketing to vertically integrated vacuum
cleaner manufacturers, who seek to outsource all or part of
their motor production. By purchasing their motors from EMG,
these customers are able to realize economic and operational
advantages by reducing or discontinuing their own motor
production and avoiding the capital investment required to keep
their motor manufacturing current with changing technologies and
market demands.

EMG has focused its new product development
efforts on minimizing costs and enhancing motor-blower
performance through advances in power, efficiency, size, weight,
and quieter operation. Among its latest advances are the
ADVANTEK

TM

series of universal vacuum motors that
incorporate design and construction techniques that lower cost
while improving operating efficiency and reliability; the
Air-Watt

TM

Series of commercial motor-blowers, whose
advanced design translates directly into higher performance and
energy savings for end users; and ACUSTEK Plus

TM

low-noise commercial vacuum motors.


EMG has a significant position in the European
floor care market with manufacturing operations in Italy and the
Czech Republic. The electric motors produced in Italy and the
Czech Republic are similar to those produced in North America.

Technical Motor Markets and Products

Technical motors, representing 26% of EMG’s
2003 sales, are used in aerospace, business machines and
computer equipment, military and mass transit vehicles, and
medical equipment applications. These electronically commutated
(brushless) motors, blowers and pumps offer long life,
reliability and near maintenance-free operation. They are used
increasingly in medical and other applications, in which their
long life and spark-free and reliable operation are key. They
also can be found in gasoline vapor recovery systems, and
provide cooling and ventilation for electronic devices, military
and mass transit vehicles and a wide range of aircraft. In the
emerging fuel cell market, AMETEK is working closely with many
of the leading developers of fuel cell technology, with blowers
and pumps specifically developed for these applications. The
acquisition of Airtechnology in January 2003 significantly
expanded AMETEK’s presence in high-end technical motors and
strengthened EMG’s relationship with large European-based
aerospace and defense companies.

Specialty Motor Markets and Products

Approximately 21% of EMG sales are to specialty
motor markets, where it manufactures a variety of specialty
motors used in a wide range of products, such as household and
personal care appliances; fitness equipment; electric materials
handling vehicles; and sewing machines. Its products are also
used in outdoor power equipment, such as electric chain saws,
leaf blowers, string trimmers and power washers. Through these
product lines, AMETEK’s market presence in permanent magnet
motors is strengthened, allowing it to participate in a variety
of new niche markets that have higher growth rates than floor
care, and further leverage the Company’s low-cost motor
manufacturing infrastructure.

Specialty Metals Markets and
    Products

AMETEK is an innovator and market leader in metal
powder, strip, wire, and bonded products. It produces stainless
steel and nickel clad alloys; stainless steel, cobalt, and
nickel alloy powders; metal strip; specialty shaped and
electronic wire; and advanced metal matrix composites used in
electronic thermal management. Its products are used in
automotive, appliance, telecommunications, marine and general
industrial applications. Its niche market focus is based upon
proprietary manufacturing technology and strong customer
relationships.

Power and Switch Markets and
    Products

EMG’s Prestolite switch and industrial
battery charger businesses greatly expand AMETEK’s
electromechanical product offerings. The switch business
produces solenoids and other electromechanical devices for the
motive and stationary power markets. The battery charger
business manufactures high-quality industrial battery chargers
for use in the materials handling market. Both the switch and
battery charger businesses have strong market positions and
enjoy a reputation for high quality and service.

Customers

EMG is not dependent on any single customer such
that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse
effect on EMG’s operations. Approximately 12% of EMG’s
sales for 2003 were made to its five largest customers.

Marketing

The Company’s marketing efforts generally
are organized and carried out at the division level. EIG makes
significant use of distributors and sales representatives in
marketing its products, as well as direct sales in some of its
more technically sophisticated products. Within aerospace, its
specialized customer base of aircraft and jet engine
manufacturers is served primarily by direct sales engineers.
Given the similarity and


technical nature of many of its products as well
as its significant worldwide market share, EMG conducts most of
its domestic and international marketing activities through a
direct sales force and makes some use of sales representatives
and distributors both in the United States and in other
countries.

Competition

In general, most of the Company’s markets
are highly competitive. The principal elements of competition
for the Company’s products are price, product technology,
distribution, quality, and service.

In the markets served by EIG, the Company
believes that it ranks among the leading U.S. producers of
certain measuring and control instruments. It also is a leader
in the U.S. heavy-vehicle instrumentation and power
instruments markets and one of the leading instrument and sensor
suppliers to the commercial aviation market. Competition remains
strong and can intensify for certain EIG products, especially
its pressure gauge and heavy-vehicle instrumentation. Both of
these businesses have several strong competitors. In the process
and analytical instruments markets, numerous companies in each
specialized market compete on the basis of product quality,
performance and innovation. The aerospace and power instruments
businesses have a number of diversified competitors, which vary
depending on the specific market niche.

EMG has limited domestic competition in the U.S.
floor care market from independent manufacturers. Competition is
increasing from Asian motor manufacturers that serve the
U.S. floor care market. Increasingly, global vacuum motor
production is being shifted to Asia where AMETEK has a weaker
market position. In Europe, competition is limited to a single
major competitor and several smaller competitors. There is
potential competition from vertically integrated manufacturers
of floor care products that produce their own motor-blowers.
Many of these manufacturers would also be potential EMG
customers if they decided to outsource their motor production.
EMG’s differentiated businesses have competition from a
limited number of companies in each of their markets.
Competition is generally based on product innovation,
performance and price. EMG’s specialty metal products
business has several specialized product lines that have few
competitors. The primary competition is from alternative
materials and processes.

Backlog and Seasonal Variations of
Business

The Company’s approximate backlog of
unfilled orders by business segment at the dates specified below
was as follows:

The higher backlog at December 31, 2003 was
primarily due to the businesses acquired in 2003.

Of the total backlog of unfilled orders at
December 31, 2003, approximately 93% is expected to be
shipped by December 31, 2004. The Company believes that
neither its business as a whole, nor either of its operating
segments, is subject to significant seasonal variations,
although certain individual operations experience some seasonal
variability.

Availability of Raw Materials

The Company’s business segments obtain raw
materials and supplies from a variety of sources, and generally
from more than one supplier. However, for EMG, certain items,
including various base metals and certain steel components, are
available only from a limited number of suppliers. The Company
believes its sources and supplies of raw materials are adequate
for its needs.


Research, Product Development and
Engineering

The Company is committed to research, product
development, and engineering activities that are designed to
identify and develop potential new and improved products or
enhance existing products. Research, product development, and
engineering costs were $49.9 million, $46.8 million
and $45.2 million, in 2003, 2002, and 2001 respectively.
These amounts included net Company-funded research and
development expenses of $23.4 million, $23.7 million
and $22.6 million, respectively. Such expenditures were directed
toward the development of new products and processes, and the
improvement of existing products and processes.

Environmental Compliance

Information with respect to environmental matters
is set forth on page 26 of this report in the section of
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations entitled “Environmental
Matters”.

Patents, Licenses, and Trademarks

The Company owns numerous unexpired U.S. patents
and foreign patents, including counterparts of its more
important U.S. patents, in the major industrial countries of the
world. The Company is a licensor or licensee under patent
agreements of various types, and its products are marketed under
various registered and unregistered U.S. and foreign trademarks
and trade names. However, the Company does not consider any
single patent or trademark, or any group thereof, essential
either to its business as a whole or to either of its business
segments. The annual royalties received or paid under license
agreements are not significant to either of its business
segments or to the Company’s overall operations.

Employees

At December 31, 2003, the Company employed
approximately 7,800 people in its EMG, EIG and corporate
operations, of whom approximately 2,900 employees were covered
by collective bargaining agreements.

Working Capital Practices

The Company does not have extraordinary working
capital requirements in either of its business segments.
Customers generally are billed at normal trade terms, which may
include extended payment provisions. Inventories are closely
controlled and maintained at levels related to production
cycles, and are responsive to the normal delivery requirements
of customers.


Item
2.

Properties

The Company has 54 operating plant facilities in
17 states and 11 foreign countries. Of these facilities, 38 are
owned by the Company and 16 are leased. The properties owned by
the Company consist of approximately 576 acres, of which
approximately 4.1 million square feet are under roof. Under
lease is a total of approximately 739,000 square feet. The
leases expire over a range of years from 2004 to 2018, with
renewal options for varying terms contained in most of the
leases. Production facilities in Taiwan, China, Japan and South
Korea provide the Company with additional production capacity
through the Company’s investment in 50% or less owned joint
ventures. The Company also has one idle production facility
available for sale. The Company’s executive offices in
Paoli, PA, occupy approximately 34,000 square feet under a lease
that will expire in 2007.

The Company’s machinery, plants, and offices
are in satisfactory operating condition and are adequate for the
uses to which they are put. The operating facilities of the
Company by business segment are summarized in the following
table:

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

Numerous industrial companies, including AMETEK
and its subsidiaries, have been named defendants in lawsuits
which are based on asbestos-related claims. No significant
resources have been required by the Company to respond to these
cases, no judgments have been made against AMETEK, and no
payments have been made to plaintiffs to settle such
asbestos-related claims. The Company believes it has strong
defenses to such claims, and it also is indemnified against
certain of these claims. If required, the Company intends to
defend itself vigorously in these matters.

Item
4.

Submission of Matters to a
Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of the
Company’s security holders, through the solicitation of
proxies or otherwise, during the last quarter of the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2003.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities

The principal market on which the Company’s
common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. The
Company’s common stock is also listed on the Pacific
Exchange, Inc. On February 27, 2004, there were
approximately 2,200 holders of record of the Company’s
common stock.

Market price and dividend information with
respect to the Company’s common stock is set forth on
page 58 in the section of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements entitled “Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited).” Future dividend payments by the Company will
be dependent on future earnings, financial requirements,
contractual provisions of debt agreements, and other relevant
factors.


Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

See notes to Selected Financial Data on page
14.


Notes to Selected Financial Data

(1)

The amounts in 2001 and the preceding years
    include the amortization of goodwill. Beginning in 2002, the
    Company accounted for goodwill under Financial Accounting
    Standards Board Statement No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
    Intangible Assets”, which no longer permits the
    amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets.
    Had the Company not amortized goodwill, net income and diluted
    earnings per share would have been higher by $10.2 million
    ($0.15 per diluted share), $9.2 million ($0.14 per diluted
    share) and $6.7 million ($0.10 per diluted share) in 2001,
    2000 and 1999, respectively.

(2)

Earnings per share, dividends declared and paid
    per share, and weighted average common shares outstanding were
    restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split effective
    February 27, 2004.

(3)

EBITDA represents income before income taxes,
    interest, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is presented
    because the Company is aware that it is used by rating agencies,
    securities analysts, investors and other parties in evaluating
    the Company. It should not be considered, however, as an
    alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company’s
    operating performance, or as an alternative to cash flows as a
    measure of the Company’s overall liquidity as presented in
    the Company’s financial statements. Furthermore, EBITDA
    measures shown for the Company may not be comparable to
    similarly titled measures used by other companies. The table
    below presents the reconciliation of net income reported in
    accordance with US GAAP to EBITDA.

(4)

Free cash flow represents cash flow from
    operating activities, before the effects of an accounts
    receivable securitization program, less capital expenditures.
    Free cash flow is presented because the Company is aware that it
    is used by rating agencies, securities analysts, investors and
    other parties in evaluating the Company. (Also see note 3
    above). The table below presents the reconciliation of operating
    cash flow from operating activities reported in accordance with
    US GAAP to free cash flow.

(5)

At December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, debt
    includes borrowings under the accounts receivable securitization
    program, referred to in note 4 above. At December 31,
    2000 and 1999, such amounts were excluded from the balance
    sheet. Had these amounts been included in the balance sheet,
    total debt and total debt as a percentage of capitalization
    would have been $406.2 million and $375.4 million and
    59.1% and 63.6%, respectively, at December 31, 2000 and
    1999.


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This report includes forward-looking statements
based on the Company’s current assumptions, expectations
and projections about future events. When used in this report,
the words “believes,” anticipates,”
“may,” “expect,” “intend,”
“estimate,” “project,” and similar
expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements,
although not all forward-looking statements contain such words.
In this report, we disclose important factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from management’s
expectations. For more information on these and other factors
see “Forward-Looking Information” on pages 27 and 28.

The following discussion and analysis of the
Company’s results of operations and financial condition
(“MD&A”) should be read in conjunction with
“Item 6. Selected Financial Data” and the
consolidated financial statements of the Company and the related
notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K

.

Business Overview

As a multinational business, AMETEK’s
operations are affected by global, regional and industry
economic factors. However, the Company’s geographic and
industry diversity, and its mix of products and services has
helped to limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of
any single country on its consolidated operating results. In
2003, difficult economic conditions in the manufacturing sector
continued to adversely impact many of the Company’s
businesses. Despite those difficult conditions, AMETEK had an
excellent year in 2003. The Company posted record sales,
operating income, net income, and diluted earnings per share. An
improving mix of businesses combined with successful operational
excellence initiatives enabled the Company to post another year
of record earnings. The Company also continues to achieve
several major objectives under its four growth strategies:
Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances, Global and Market
Expansion, New Products and Operational Excellence.

•

Sales were $1.09 billion, an increase of
    4.9% from 2002 on the contributions of the three acquisitions
    completed during the year, as follows:

•

In January 2003, the Company completed the
    acquisition of Airtechnology Holdings Limited, significantly
    expanding its presence in high-end technical motors.

•

In February 2003, the Company acquired Solidstate
    Controls, Inc., adding complementary products for the process
    and power generation industries.

•

In August 2003, the Company acquired Chandler
    Instruments Company, LLC, enhancing the Company’s presence
    in the high-quality measurement instrument market.

•

As the Company grows globally, it continues to
    have an increasing level of international sales, which results
    in more foreign currency exposure. In 2003, foreign currency
    fluctuation had a 2% positive impact on sales, primarily the
    result of the continued strength of the euro in relation to the
    U.S. dollar. Foreign currency impacts had a negligible impact on
    earnings in 2003. International sales, including U.S. export
    sales, represented 40% of consolidated sales in 2003, compared
    with 34% of sales in 2002.

•

Improved product mix and its low cost strategy,
    along with the ongoing transition of a portion of the
    Company’s motor and instrument production to low-cost
    manufacturing facilities in Mexico, China and the Czech
    Republic, continue to benefit the Company. These operational
    excellence initiatives contributed to a net favorable impact on
    segment operating margins, which improved to 16.4% of sales in
    2003, from 16.1% of sales in 2002.

•

Higher income and a continuing focus on reducing
    operating working capital resulted in cash flow from operating
    activities that totaled $154.9 million, a 49.4% increase
    from 2002. The improved operating cash flow enhanced the
    Company’s ability to make acquisitions with minimal impact
    on debt levels. At year-end 2003, the debt-to-capital ratio was
    45%, an improvement from 48% at the end of 2002.


•

The Company continued its emphasis on investment
    in research, development and engineering, spending
    $49.9 million in 2003, an increase of 6.6% over 2002. New
    product sales increased 3.5% over 2002 to $115.8 million.

•

Early in 2004, several significant corporate
    actions were taken:

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth net sales and
income of the Company by business segment and on a consolidated
basis for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001:

(1)

2001 includes charges of $23.3 million for
    cost realignment initiatives and asset writedowns.

(2)

Segment operating income represents sales less
    all direct costs and expenses (including certain administrative
    and other expenses) applicable to each segment, but does not
    include interest expense.

(3)

2001 includes goodwill amortization of
    $11.9 million.


Year Ended December 31, 2003, Compared
with Year Ended December 31, 2002

Results of
Operations

In 2003, the Company posted record sales,
operating income, net income, and diluted earnings per share,
despite the difficult economic environment within the
manufacturing sector. These records were achieved through
contributions from the 2003 acquisitions, as well as higher
sales due to strengthening foreign currencies. Margins benefited
from the acquisitions, as well as from continued cost reduction
initiatives in base businesses.

The Company reported sales for 2003 of
$1,091.6 million, an increase of $51.1 million or 4.9%
from sales of $1,040.5 million in 2002. Strengthening
foreign currencies contributed $23.9 million to the sales
increase. The economic slowdown affecting the manufacturing
sector impacted many of the Company’s businesses. Net sales
for the Electronic Instruments Group (EIG) were
$561.9 million in 2003, an increase of 4.2% from sales of
$539.4 million in 2002. The 2003 sales increase for EIG was
due mainly to the first quarter 2003 acquisition of Solidstate
Controls, Inc. (SCI) and the third quarter 2003 acquisition
of Chandler Instruments Company, LLC (Chandler), as well as
strength in the high-end analytical instruments business,
partially offset by continued weakness in the aerospace and
power businesses. Net sales for the Electromechanical Group
(EMG) were $529.7 million in 2003, an increase of 5.7%
from sales of $501.1 million in 2002 primarily driven by
the first quarter 2003 acquisition of Airtechnology Holdings
Limited (Airtechnology). The EMG sales increase was partially
offset by a decline in sales within the Group’s floor care
and specialty motors businesses.

Total international sales were
$435.7 million in 2003 and represented 39.9% of
consolidated net sales, compared with $353.4 million or
34.0% of sales in 2002. International sales increased 23.3% in
2003, primarily due to the 2003 acquisitions. Export shipments
from the United States in 2003 were $200.8 million, an
increase of 4.6% compared with $192.0 million in 2002.

New orders for 2003 were $1,136.9 million,
compared with $1,004.8 million for 2002, an increase of
$132.1 million or 13.1%. The order backlog at
December 31, 2003 was $286.2 million, compared with
$240.9 million at December 31, 2002, an increase of
$45.3 million or 18.8%. The increase in orders and backlog
was due mainly to the three acquisitions completed in 2003. The
Company experienced order declines in its floor care and
specialty motors businesses.

Segment operating income was $179.1 million
for 2003, an increase of 6.8%, compared with segment operating
income of $167.7 million for 2002. Segment operating
margins in 2003 were 16.4% of sales, an increase from 16.1% of
sales in 2002. The increase in segment operating income resulted
from the profit contributions generated by the 2003
acquisitions, as well as the Company’s successful
operational excellence strategy. This strategy includes the
continued migration of production to low-cost locales in Mexico,
China and Czech Republic and the aggressive lowering of the
Company’s overall cost structure. Partially offsetting the
increase in segment operating income was the impact of lower
sales by the Company’s aerospace, power instruments, floor
care and specialty motors businesses. An $11.4 million
increase in pension costs, general business insurance and
employee benefit costs, net of benefits from certain insurance
programs in 2003, also lowered segment operating income. The
Company expects lower pension expense in 2004, due primarily to
the favorable performance of the pension plan investments. The
estimated decrease in pension expense is expected to be
substantially offset by higher employee-related expenses in 2004.

Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A)
expenses were $115.2 million in 2003, compared with
$104.8 million in 2002, an increase of $10.4 million
or 9.9%. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses were
10.6% in 2003, compared to 10.1% in 2002. The selling expense
component, as a percentage of sales, increased to 8.5% in 2003,
compared to 8.3% in 2002. Lower selling expenses of the
Company’s base businesses, were more than offset by selling
expense of the businesses acquired in 2003. The businesses
acquired in 2003 were differentiated businesses, which because
of their technology and higher marketing costs, incur a higher
percentage of selling expenses than the Company’s base
businesses. The decrease in selling expense by base businesses
reflects the Company’s continual focus on cost reduction
initiatives as a part of its operational excellence strategy.


Corporate administrative expenses were
$22.4 million or 2.0% of sales in 2003, an increase of
$3.3 million or 17.6%, when compared with 2002. The
increase was primarily the result of a one-time, noncash
expense, in the third quarter of 2003, from the accelerated cost
recognition due to the vesting of a restricted stock grant.
Higher net business insurance and health insurance costs, as
well as higher pension costs in 2003, also contributed to the
increase.

Consolidated operating income totaled
$156.8 million or 14.4% of sales for 2003, compared to
$148.7 million, or 14.3% of sales for 2002, an increase of
$8.1 million or 5.4%.

Interest expense was $26.0 million in 2003,
an increase of 3.3% compared with $25.2 million in 2002.
The increase was due to higher average debt levels to fund the
2003 acquisitions, partially offset by lower interest rates.

The effective tax rate for 2003 was 32.5%
compared with 31.9% in 2002. The higher tax rate in 2003 was
primarily due to the nondeductibility of the expense recognized
in connection with the vesting of the restricted stock grant
mentioned above.

Net income for 2003 was $87.8 million, an
increase of 4.9% from $83.7 million in 2002. Diluted
earnings per share on a post-stock split basis were $1.30, an
increase of $0.06, when compared with $1.24 per diluted share in
2002.

Operating
Segment Results

Electronic Instruments Group

(EIG) sales were
$561.9 million in 2003, an increase of 4.2% from 2002 sales
of $539.4 million. The sales increase was primarily from
the 2003 SCI and Chandler acquisitions, as well as strength in
the Group’s high-end analytical businesses. A favorable
foreign currency translation impact of $6.8 million also
benefited the sales of this Group. Conditions continue to remain
weak in many of EIG’s markets, especially in the aerospace
and power instruments markets. EIG’s base business sales
were 4.7% lower, including the favorable foreign currency
impacts, when compared with 2002.

EIG’s operating income for 2003 increased to
$95.0 million from $87.5 million in 2002, an increase
of $7.5 million, or 8.6%. The increase was primarily driven
by the SCI and Chandler acquisitions, partially offset by a net
increase of $8.1 million in pension costs and insurance
expenses, as well as lower aerospace and power instruments
operating income due to their lower sales. The Group’s
operating margins for 2003 improved to 16.9% compared with
margins of 16.2% for 2002. The higher margins in 2003 were due
to the acquired businesses and the favorable effects of cost
reduction initiatives.

In September 2003, the Group’s Haveg
business unit experienced a flood at its manufacturing facility
in Wilmington, Delaware. The Company believes the flood loss is
fully insured, and it does not expect to incur a loss upon the
ultimate settlement of the flood claim. The Company is currently
meeting with its insurance carriers to finalize the flood claim
and it expects to finalize this matter in 2004.

Electromechanical Group

(EMG) sales for 2003 were
$529.7 million, an increase of $28.6 million or 5.7%,
compared with sales of $501.1 million in 2002. The sales
increase was a result of the Airtechnology acquisition and
$17.1 million of favorable foreign currency translation
gains, partially offset by a decline in the floor care and
specialty motors businesses. EMG’s sales by base businesses
were 3.5% lower, including the favorable foreign currency
impacts, when compared with 2002.

EMG’s operating income for 2003 increased to
$84.2 million from $80.2 million in 2002, an increase
of $4.0 million or 4.9%. The increase was a result of the
Airtechnology acquisition, partially offset by lower sales by
the Group’s base businesses and higher benefit costs. The
Group’s operating margins for 2003 were unchanged at 15.9%.


Year Ended December 31, 2002, Compared
with Year Ended December 31, 2001

Results of Operations

The Company reported sales in 2002 of
$1,040.5 million, an increase of 2.1% from sales of
$1,019.3 million in 2001, despite the difficult global
economic environment which continued to impact many of the
Company’s businesses. Net sales for EIG were
$539.4 million in 2002, an increase of 8.0% from sales of
$499.5 million in 2001. The sales increase for EIG was due
mainly to the 2001 acquisitions of Instruments for Research and
Applied Science (IRAS) and EDAX, Inc., as well as strength in
the Company’s heavy-vehicle instruments business. These
increases were partially offset by a continued decline in demand
from most of the Group’s other businesses, primarily
aerospace and power instruments. Net sales for EMG were
$501.1 million in 2002, a decrease of 3.6% from sales of
$519.8 million in 2001, due to continued weakness in the
United States and European floor care markets, partially offset
by the 2001 acquisition of GS Electric and currency translation
gains from international businesses. Without the impact of the
2001 acquisitions, consolidated sales for 2002 would have been
lower by 6.3% when compared with 2001. Total consolidated
international sales were $353.4 million in 2002, an
increase of 10.0% from sales of $321.2 million in 2001.
Export shipments from the United States in 2002 were
$192.0 million, an increase of 12.9% compared with
$170.0 million in 2001.

New orders in 2002 were $1,004.8 million,
compared to $1,039.5 million in 2001, a decrease of
$34.7 million or 3.3%, due to an orders decline primarily
in the aerospace and power instrument businesses resulting from
softness in these markets, as well as the overall economic
slowdown. The decline in orders was partially offset by orders
from the 2001 acquisitions. The order backlog at
December 31, 2002 was $240.9 million, compared with
$276.6 million at December 31, 2001, a decrease of
$35.7 million or 12.9% due to the decline in aerospace,
power instrument and technical motor businesses.

Total segment operating income increased to
$167.7 million in 2002, an increase of 31.4%, compared with
segment operating income of $127.7 million in 2001. Segment
operating margins in 2002 were 16.1% of sales, an increase from
12.5% of sales in 2001. The higher operating income was
primarily driven by the 2001 acquisitions and the
non-amortization of goodwill, effective at the beginning of
2002. This increase was reduced somewhat by higher net pension
costs resulting primarily from lower pension income from the
Company’s U.S. defined benefit pension plans. In 2002, the
Company continued to benefit from its aggressive cost reduction
initiatives, which began in the second half of 2000. These
initiatives included the continued migration of production to
low-cost locales in Mexico, China and Czech Republic and the
lowering of its overall cost structure. Segment operating income
in 2001 included a fourth-quarter pretax charge to operations of
$23 million ($15 million after tax) for cash
realignment initiatives and asset writedowns.

Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A)
expenses were $104.8 million in 2002, compared with
$98.7 million in 2001, an increase of $6.1 million or
6.2%. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses were 10.1%
in 2002, compared to 9.7% in 2001. The selling expense
component, as a percentage of sales, increased to 8.3% in 2002,
compared to 7.9% in 2001. The higher selling expense in 2002 was
due to the 2001 acquisitions in EIG, which had a different
overall cost structure than AMETEK’s base businesses.
Selling expense of base businesses decreased as a percentage of
sales during 2002, reflecting the Company’s continual focus
on cost reduction initiatives.

Corporate expenses were $19.0 million or
1.8% of sales in 2002, an increase of $0.9 million or 5.0%,
when compared to $18.1 million in 2001, but were unchanged
as a percentage of sales. Higher insurance expense, pension
costs and professional fees in 2002 accounted for the increase
in corporate expenses in 2002.

After deducting corporate expenses, consolidated
operating income was $148.7 million or 14.3% of sales, an
increase of $39.1 million when compared with 2001 operating
income of $109.6 million or 10.7% of sales.

Interest expense was $25.2 million in 2002,
a decrease of 9.8% compared with $27.9 million in 2001.
Lower average interest rates were the primary reason for the
decrease in interest expense. Other expenses were
$0.6 million in 2002, compared with other income of
$2.7 million in 2001. The $3.3 million change resulted
primarily from lower investment income from the Company’s
captive insurance subsidiary in 2002. The year 2001 also
included interest income related to tax benefits recognized in
the fourth quarter of 2001.


The effective tax rate in 2002 was 31.9% compared
with 21.6% in 2001. The effective tax rate in 2002 was favorably
impacted by the effect of not amortizing goodwill due to the
adoption of SFAS No. 142, and the Company’s tax
planning initiatives. The lower tax rate in 2001 was primarily
due to the recognition of $10.5 million in tax benefits
resulting from the closure of a number of open tax years by
U.S. federal and state tax authorities.

Net income in 2002 was $83.7 million, or
$1.24 per diluted share on a post-stock split basis, compared
with net income in 2001 of $66.1 million, or $0.99 per
diluted share, a 26.6% increase in net income. Net income in
2001 included goodwill amortization of $10.2 million after
tax, and the net effect of the unusual items, previously
mentioned.

Operating Segment Results

Electronic Instruments Group

(EIG) sales were $539.4 million
in 2002, an increase of 8.0% from 2001 sales of
$499.5 million. The sales increase was primarily from the
IRAS and EDAX acquisitions, as well as strength in the
heavy-vehicle business. The Company believes the increase in
heavy-vehicle instrument sales was due mainly to truck purchases
in advance of more stringent federal emission standards that
became effective October 1, 2002 and was considered to be
an isolated event. Conditions remained weak in most of
EIG’s markets, especially in the aerospace, power
instruments and heavy-vehicle markets. Without the acquisitions,
EIG’s sales would have decreased by 5.5% when compared with
2001.

EIG’s operating income in 2002 increased to
$87.5 million from $57.0 million in 2001, an increase
of $30.5 million, or 53.4%. The increase was the result of
unusual charges recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001 resulting
from headcount reductions, shifting production to low-cost
locales and other expense reduction initiatives. EIG also
benefited from the non-amortization of goodwill in 2002.
EIG’s pretax goodwill amortization in 2001 was
$6.7 million. The Group’s operating margins for 2002
improved to 16.2% from 11.4% in 2001.

Electromechanical Group

(EMG) sales were $501.1 million
in 2002, a decrease of 3.6%, from 2001 sales of
$519.8 million. The sales decrease reflected the continued
overall weakness in the Group’s markets, led by continued
softness in the floor care market. The 2001 acquisition of GS
Electric and currency translation gains from international
businesses partially offset the sales decline. Without this
acquisition, EMG’s sales would have decreased by 7.1%.

EMG’s operating income in 2002 increased to
$80.2 million from $70.6 million in 2001, an increase
of 13.6%. The increase was the result of the unusual charges
recorded in the fourth quarter of 2001, and improved operating
margins resulting from headcount reductions, shifting production
to low-cost locales and other expense reduction initiatives. EMG
also benefited from the non-amortization of goodwill in 2002.
EMG’s pretax goodwill amortization in 2001 was
$5.2 million. Group operating margins were 16.0% of sales
in 2002, up from 13.6% of sales in 2001.

Fourth Quarter Results

Results for the fourth quarter of 2002 compared
with the fourth quarter of 2001 are presented because the two
quarters differ in comparability due to significant unusual
events in the fourth quarter of 2001. In the fourth quarter of
2001 the Company recorded unusual expenses associated with the
realignment of its cost structure and asset writedowns. Also, in
the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company recognized tax benefits
from the closure of a number of tax years. In the fourth quarter
of 2003 and 2002, significant unusual events did not take place.

Sales for the fourth quarter of 2002 were
$252.6 million, compared with $237.3 million in the
fourth quarter of 2001, an increase of $15.3 million, or
6.4%. The increase in sales was primarily driven by the IRAS
acquisition, although the difficult global economic environment
continued to impact many of the Company’s businesses.
Without the acquisition, fourth quarter 2002 sales increased
slightly.

Operating income for the fourth quarter of 2002
was $36.5 million, compared with $5.3 million for the
fourth quarter of 2001, an increase of $31.2 million.
Operating income was lower in the fourth quarter of 2001


primarily due to the recording of unusual
expenses that totaled $23.3 million, of which
$12.4 million was related to the costs of employee
reductions, facility closures, and the continued migration of
production to low-cost locales, and $10.9 million was
related to asset writedowns. In the fourth quarter of 2002, the
Company continued to benefit from the aggressive management of
its cost structure, which began in the fourth quarter of 2000.
The contribution from the acquisition of IRAS and the
non-amortization of goodwill, which started at the beginning of
2002, also benefited the 2002 fourth quarter.

Selling, general and administrative expenses were
$23.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2002, a decrease of
$3.7 million or 13.4%, when compared with the fourth
quarter of 2001. Selling expenses, as a percentage of sales,
decreased to 7.6% in the fourth quarter of 2002, compared with
9.8% for the same period in 2001, which reflects the
Company’s continual focus on cost reduction initiatives,
and the unusual charges in 2001. This decrease was partially
offset by selling expenses related to the IRAS acquisition,
acquired in December 2001. The 2001 fourth quarter included
selling, general and administrative expenses of
$2.7 million related to unusual charges.

Corporate expenses for the fourth quarter of 2002
were $4.8 million or 1.9% of sales, compared to
$4.3 million, or 1.8% of sales in the fourth quarter of
2001. After deducting corporate expenses, consolidated operating
income totaled $36.5 million or 14.4% of sales for the
fourth quarter of 2002, compared with $5.3 million, or 2.2%
of sales for the fourth quarter of 2001.

Interest expense was $5.7 million in the
fourth quarter of 2002, compared with $6.6 million for the
same quarter of 2001. The decrease of $0.9 million, or
13.6%, resulted from lower interest rates and debt levels.

The fourth quarter 2002 provision for income
taxes were $9.5 million compared to a tax benefit of
$10.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2001. The 2001
fourth quarter results included a tax benefit of
$10.5 million, from the closure of a number of tax years by
U.S. federal and state tax authorities.

Net income for the fourth quarter of 2002 totaled
$21.3 million, or $0.32 per diluted share on a post-stock
split basis, an increase of $9.8 million, or 86.1% from the
fourth quarter of 2001 net income of $11.5 million, or
$0.17 per diluted share. Net income for the fourth quarter of
2001 included goodwill amortization of $2.7 million after
tax, or $0.04 per diluted share.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash provided by operating activities totaled
$154.9 million for 2003, compared with $103.7 million
in 2002, an increase of $51.2 million, or 49.4%. The
increase in operating cash flow was primarily the result of
higher earnings, and continuing emphasis on operating working
capital management. Excluding the impact of the 2003
acquisitions, accounts receivable and inventories were lower
than the prior year-end totals, and the Company’s inventory
turnover and accounts receivable collection cycle improved. The
inventory improvements were achieved even though the Company
continued to move certain production to low-cost manufacturing
sites. Lower pension plan contributions and lower required tax
payments also benefited operating cash flow in 2003. The strong
operating cash flow during 2003 enhanced the Company’s
ability to make acquisitions, which are discussed below, with
minimal impact on debt levels. Free cash flow (operating cash
flow less capital spending) was $133.6 million in 2003,
compared with $86.3 million in 2002, an increase of 54.8%.
EBITDA (earnings before income taxes, interest, depreciation and
amortization) was $191.1 million in 2003, compared with
$180.4 million in 2002, a 5.9% improvement. Free cash flow
and EBITDA are presented because the Company is aware that they
are important measures that are used by third parties in
evaluating the Company. (See table on page 14 for a
reconciliation of comparable GAAP measures to non-GAAP measures).

Cash used for investing activities was
$181.0 million for 2003, compared with $19.7 million
for 2002. In 2003, the Company purchased three businesses for
$163.9 million. The Company acquired Airtechnology in
January 2003, SCI in February 2003 and Chandler Instruments in
August 2003. Cash provided by operating activities, along with
additional borrowings, funded the 2003 acquisitions. Additions
to property, plant and equipment totaled $21.3 million in
2003, compared with $17.4 million in 2002.


Cash provided by financing activities totaled
$26.9 million in 2003, compared with cash used of
$84.6 million in 2002. In 2003, net borrowings increased by
$24.0 million compared with a decrease in borrowings of
$82.8 million in 2002. Long-term borrowings increased
$27.4 million and included a September 2003,
50 million British pound sterling (approximately
$80.0 million) loan. The British pound sterling loan
provides a natural hedge of the Company’s investment in
United Kingdom-based Airtechnology. The remaining proceeds from
the additional long-term borrowings were used to repay
borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit agreement.
The Company had available borrowing capacity of
$239.1 million under its $300 million revolving bank
credit facility, and $11.0 million under its accounts
receivable securitization agreement at December 31, 2003.
The revolving bank credit facility was amended on
February 25, 2004 to extend its expiration date from
September 2006 to February 2009. Extension of the credit
facility provides the Company with increased flexibility to
support its growth plans.

At December 31, 2003, total debt outstanding
was $424.4 million compared with $390.1 million at
December 31, 2002. The debt-to-capital ratio was 44.5%,
down from 48.1% at December 31, 2002. The Company’s
debt agreements contain various covenants including limitations
on indebtedness, dividend payments and maintenance of certain
financial ratios. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the
Company was well within the allowable limits of the financial
ratios.

Repurchases of the Company’s common stock in
2003 totaled $5.8 million for 380,000 shares, compared to
$7.3 million for 473,800 shares acquired in 2002. In March
2003, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a new
$50 million share repurchase program, adding to the
$2.4 million remaining balance from an earlier share
repurchase program. As of December 31, 2003,
$52.4 million was available for future share repurchases.

In January 2004, the Company’s Board of
Directors approved a 100% increase in its quarterly cash
dividend effective with the March 2004 dividend payment. Cash
dividends paid in 2003 were $8.1 million.

The following table summarizes AMETEK’s
contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2003 and the
effect such obligations are expected to have on the
Company’s liquidity and cash flows in future years.


Other Commitments

The Company has standby letters of credit of
approximately $24.9 million related to performance and
payment guarantees. Based on experience with these arrangements,
the Company believes that any obligations that may arise will
not be material to its financial position.

The Company may, from time to time, redeem,
tender for, or repurchase its long-term debt in the open market
or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon
availability, market conditions and other factors.

As a result of all of the Company’s cash
flow activities in 2003, cash and cash equivalents increased
slightly to $14.3 million at year-end, compared with
$13.5 million at December 31, 2002. The Company
believes it has sufficient cash-generating capabilities and
available financing alternatives to enable it to meet operating
needs and contractual commitments.

Transactions with Related Parties

The Company has a business relationship with the
law firm of Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP, a
Partner of which is a member of the Company’s Board of
Directors.

In 2003, Stroock & Stroock &
Lavan LLP billed fees to the Company in the aggregate for
services rendered of $286,000.

Critical Accounting Policies

The Company has identified its most critical
accounting policies as those accounting policies that can have a
significant impact on the presentation of the Company’s
financial condition and results of operations, and that require
the use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past
experience and management’s judgment. Because of the
uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may
differ materially from the estimates used. The consolidated
financial statements and related notes contain information that
is pertinent to the Company’s accounting policies and to
management’s discussion and analysis. The information that
follows represents additional specific disclosures about the
Company’s accounting policies regarding risks, estimates,
subjective decisions, or assessments whereby materially
different results of operations and financial condition could
have been reported had different assumptions been used or
different conditions existed. Primary disclosure of the
Company’s significant accounting policies is in Note 1
of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,”
included elsewhere in this report.

•

Revenue Recognition.

The Company recognizes revenues in
    accordance with invoice terms, generally when products are
    shipped and services are rendered. The policy with respect to
    sales returns and allowances generally provides that the
    customer may not return products or be given allowances, except
    at the Company’s option. Accruals for sales returns, other
    allowances, and estimated warranty costs are provided at the
    time of shipment based upon past experience. At
    December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, the accrual for future
    warranty obligations was $6.9 million, $6.4 million
    and $7.7 million, respectively. The Company’s expense
    for warranty obligations approximated $5.0 million in each
    of the last three years. The warranty periods for products sold
    vary widely among the Company’s operations, but for the
    most part do not exceed one year. The Company calculates its
    warranty expense provision based on past warranty experience and
    adjustments are made periodically to reflect actual warranty
    expenses. If actual future sales returns, allowances and
    warranty amounts are higher than past experience, additional
    amounts may be required.

•

Inventories.

The
    Company uses the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method of accounting
    for the majority of its inventories, whereby inventories
    reported on its balance sheet are conservatively valued. If the
    Company had used the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method of
    inventory valuation, which approximates current replacement
    cost, inventories would have been approximately
    $26.8 million and $27.0 million higher than the amount
    reported in the balance sheet at December 31, 2003 and
    2002, respectively. The Company provides estimated inventory
    reserves for slow-moving and obsolete inventory based on current
    assessments about future demand, market conditions, customers
    who may be experiencing


financial difficulties, and related management
    initiatives. If these factors are less favorable than those
    projected by management, additional inventory reserves may be
    required.

•

Goodwill and Intangible
    Assets.

The Company accounts for
    goodwill and intangible assets under SFAS No. 142,
    “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”. Under SFAS
    No. 142, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite
    lives are not amortized; rather, they are tested for impairment
    at least annually. As required by SFAS No. 142, the Company
    ceased amortization of all goodwill and intangible assets with
    indefinite lives as of January 1, 2002. Intangible assets
    with finite lives are amortized over their useful lives.

SFAS No. 142 requires a two-step impairment
    test for goodwill. The first step is to compare the carrying
    amount of the reporting unit’s assets to the fair value of
    the reporting unit. If the fair value exceeds the carrying
    value, no further evaluation is required and no impairment loss
    is recognized. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value
    then the second step must be completed, which involves
    allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to each asset
    and liability, with the excess being implied goodwill. An
    impairment loss occurs if the amount of the recorded goodwill
    exceeds the implied goodwill. The Company would be required to
    record such impairment losses. The determination of the fair
    value of the Company’s reporting units is based, among
    other things, on estimates of future operating performance of
    the reporting unit being valued. Changes in market conditions,
    among other factors, may have an impact on these estimates. The
    Company’s acquisitions have generally included a large
    goodwill component and the Company expects to continue to make
    acquisitions. At December 31, 2003, goodwill totaled
    $507.0 million or 41.7% of the Company’s total assets.
    The Company performed its required annual impairment test in the
    fourth quarter of 2003 and determined that the Company’s
    goodwill was not impaired. There can be no assurance that
    goodwill impairment will not occur in the future.

•

Pensions.

The
    Company has defined benefit and defined contribution pension
    plans. The discussion that follows only covers the
    Company’s accounting policy for its U.S. defined
    benefit pension plans. AMETEK accounts for its defined benefit
    pension plans in accordance with SFAS No. 87,
    “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions”, which
    requires that amounts recognized in financial statements be
    determined on an actuarial basis. The most significant elements
    in determining the Company’s pension income or expense are
    the assumed pension liability discount rate and the expected
    return on plan assets. The pension discount rate reflects the
    current interest rate at which the pension liabilities could be
    settled at the year-end valuation date. At the end of each year,
    the Company determines the assumed discount rate to be used to
    discount plan liabilities. In estimating this rate, the Company
    looks to rates of return on high-quality, fixed-income
    investments. The discount rate used in determining the 2003
    pension cost was 6.75% for U.S. defined benefit pension
    plans. The discount rate used for determining the funded status
    of the plans at December 31, 2003, and determining the 2004
    U.S. defined benefit pension plan cost is 6.25%. The
    Company has assumed that the expected long-term rate of return
    on plan assets for U.S. defined benefit pension plans for
    year-end 2003 and for the 2004 pension expense will be 8.9%. The
    rate of compensation increase used in determining the 2003 and
    2004 pension expense for these plans was 3.5%. The unrecognized
    pension loss, which results from the net effect of changes in
    the assumed discount rate, as well as the effect of differences
    between the expected return and the actual return on plan
    assets, has been deferred and is subject to amortization. It
    totaled $62.2 million for U.S. defined benefit pension
    plans at December 31, 2003, compared with
    $74.9 million at December 31, 2002. This deferred loss
    will ultimately affect future pension costs. For the year ended
    December 31, 2003, the Company recognized consolidated
    pretax pension expense of $7.5 million from its defined
    benefit pension plans, which includes approximately
    $1.0 million in curtailment costs. This compares with
    pension income of $1.2 million recognized from these plans
    in 2002. As a result of the improved equity security market at
    the end of 2003, the Company anticipates lower pension expense
    for these plans by approximately $5 million in 2004. The
    Company made cash contributions to its U.S. defined benefit
    pension plans during 2003 which totaled $5.2 million,
    compared with $30.3 million in 2002. Based on the current
    economic outlook, the Company anticipates


making a cash contribution of approximately
    $5 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans
    in 2004.

•

Accounts Receivable.

The Company maintains allowances for
    estimated losses resulting from the inability of specific
    customers to meet their financial obligations to the Company. A
    specific reserve for bad debts is recorded against the amount
    due from these customers. For all other customers, the Company
    recognizes reserves for bad debts based on the length of time
    specific receivables are past due based on its past experience.
    If the financial condition of the Company’s customers were
    to deteriorate, resulting in their inability to make payments,
    additional allowances may be required. The allowance for
    possible losses on receivables at December 31, 2003 was
    $8.2 million, compared with $7.2 million at
    December 31, 2002.

New Accounting Standards

In January 2003, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Interpretation
No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities” (“FIN 46”) and subsequently
revised it in December 2003 with the issuance of FIN 46-R.
FIN 46-R requires a company to consolidate a variable
interest entity if the Company is designated as a primary
beneficiary of that entity even if the company does not have a
majority voting interest in the entity. A variable interest
entity is generally defined as an entity in which equity
investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling
financial interest, or do not have sufficient equity at risk for
the entity to finance its own activities without additional
financial support from other parties, or whose owners lack the
risks and rewards of ownership. FIN 46-R also has a
disclosure requirement for all variable interest entities of a
company, even if the company is not the primary beneficiary. The
Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting
FIN 46-R applicable to variable interest entities created
prior to February 1, 2003 but does not expect a material
impact.

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 143, “Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations.” SFAS No. 143 addresses
financial accounting and reporting for legal obligations
associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets
that result from the acquisition, construction, development and
normal operation of a long-lived asset. SFAS No. 143
requires that the fair value of a liability for an asset
retirement obligation be recognized in the period in which it is
incurred, if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made.
The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as a part
of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset and subsequently
allocated to expense over the asset’s useful life. The
adoption of SFAS No. 143 had no effect on the
Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial
position, or cash flows.

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company
adopted SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated
with Exit or Disposal Activities”. SFAS No. 146
replaces Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue
No. 94-3, “Liability Recognition for Certain Employee
Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity
(including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring).”
Among other things, SFAS No. 146 requires that a liability
for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be
recognized when the liability is incurred instead of at the date
of an entity’s commitment to an exit plan, as under EITF
Issue No. 94-3. The initial adoption of SFAS No. 146
had no effect on the Company’s consolidated results of
operations, financial position, or cash flows.

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company
adopted the recognition and measurement provisions of FASB
Interpretation No. 45, “Guarantor’s Accounting
and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others,”
(“FIN No. 45”) for guarantees issued or
modified after December 31, 2002. FIN No. 45
requires that upon issuance of a guarantee, the entity must
recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation it
assumes under that guarantee. The Company does not provide
significant guarantees on a routine basis. As a result, the
adoption of FIN No. 45 did not have an impact on the
Company’s financial statements. The disclosures required by
FIN No. 45 are included in Note 16 of the notes
to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in
this report, “Guarantees.”

Effective December 31, 2003, the Company
adopted EITF Issue 03-1, “The Meaning of
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain
Investments.” EITF Issue 03-1 reached a consensus


that the quantitative and qualitative disclosures
presented in SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” are required
for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2003, and that
the disclosures will only be required for the latest year
presented in the financial statements. The disclosures required
by EITF Issue 03-1 are included in Note 1 of the notes
to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in
this report, “Significant Accounting Policies.”

Internal Reinvestment

Capital Expenditures

Capital expenditures were $21.3 million for
2003, compared with $17.4 million for 2002. Approximately
50% of the expenditures in 2003 were for equipment to increase
productivity and expand capacity. The Company’s 2004
capital expenditures are expected to increase slightly when
compared with 2003 levels, with a continuing emphasis on
spending to improve productivity and expand low-cost
manufacturing facilities. The Company expects 2004 capital
expenditures to continue to approximate 2% of sales.

Product Development and Engineering

Product development and engineering expenses are
directed toward the development and improvement of new and
existing products and processes. Such expenses were
$49.9 million in 2003, an increase from $46.8 million
in 2002, and $45.2 million in 2001. Included in the amounts
above are net expenses for research and development of
$23.4 million for 2003, $23.7 million for 2002, and
$22.6 million for 2001.

Environmental Matters

Certain historic processes in the manufacture of
previous AMETEK products have resulted in environmentally
hazardous waste by-products as defined by federal and state laws
and regulations. While these waste products were handled in
compliance with regulations existing at that time, the Company
has been named a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) regarding
waste remediation at several non-AMETEK sites that are the
subject of government-mandated cleanups. In addition to these
non-AMETEK sites, the Company has an ongoing practice of
providing reserves for probable remediation activities at
certain of its manufacturing locations and for claims and
proceedings against the Company with respect to other
environmental matters once the Company has determined that a
loss is probable and estimable. Total environmental reserves at
December 31, 2003 and 2002 were approximately
$6.4 million and $7.1 million, respectively. In 2003,
the Company spent approximately $1.1 million on such
environmental matters, compared with approximately
$2.0 million in 2002. The Company also has agreements with
former owners of certain of its acquired businesses as well as
new owners of previously owned businesses. Under certain of the
agreements the former owners retained, or assumed and agreed to
indemnify the Company against, certain environmental and other
liabilities under certain circumstances. The Company and some of
the other parties carry insurance coverage for some
environmental matters. To date, those parties have met their
obligation in all material respects. The Company has no reason
to believe that such third parties would fail to perform their
obligation in the future. However, if the Company were required
to record a liability with respect to all, or a portion of, such
matters on its balance sheet, the effect on income and the
amount of the liability would not be significant. In the opinion
of management, based upon presently available information and
past experience related to such matters, either adequate
provision for probable costs has been made, or the ultimate cost
resulting from these actions is not expected to materially
affect the consolidated financial position, results of
operations, or cash flows of the Company.

Market Risk

The Company’s primary exposures to market
risk are fluctuations in interest rates on its short-term debt,
foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices for certain
raw material purchases.

All of the Company’s long-term debt carries
fixed rates and its short-term debt is variable-rate debt. These
financial instruments are more fully described in the notes to
the financial statements.


The foreign currencies to which the Company has
the most significant exchange rate exposure include the euro,
the British pound sterling, and the Japanese yen. Exposure to
foreign currency rate fluctuation is monitored, and when
possible, mitigated through the use of local borrowings in the
foreign country affected. The effect of translating foreign
subsidiaries’ balance sheets into U.S. dollars is
included in other comprehensive income, within
stockholders’ equity. Foreign currency transactions have
not had a significant effect on the operating results reported
by the Company.

The primary commodities to which the Company has
market exposure are raw material purchases of nickel, copper and
steel. Exposure to price changes in these commodities is
generally mitigated through adjustments in selling prices of the
ultimate product, and purchase order pricing arrangements,
although forward contracts may be used in some circumstances to
manage some of those exposures.

Based on a hypothetical ten percent adverse
movement in interest rates, commodity prices, or foreign
currency exchange rates, the potential losses in future
earnings, fair value of risk-sensitive financial instruments,
and cash flows are not material, although the actual effects may
differ materially from the hypothetical analysis.

Forward-Looking Information

Certain matters discussed in this Form 10-K
are “forward-looking statements” as defined in the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act (PSLRA) of 1995, which
involve risk and uncertainties that exist in the Company’s
operations and business environment, and are subject to change
based on various important factors. The Company wishes to take
advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the PSLRA
by cautioning readers that numerous important factors discussed
below, among others, in some cases have caused, and in the
future could cause, the Company’s actual results to differ
materially from those expressed in any forward-looking
statements made by, or on behalf of, the Company. The following
include some, but not all, of the factors or uncertainties that
could cause actual results to differ from projections:


The Company believes that it has the product
offerings, facilities, personnel and competitive and financial
resources for continued business success. However, future
revenues, costs, margins, product mix and profits are all
influenced by a number of factors, as discussed above.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    about Market Risk

Information concerning market risk is set forth
under the heading “Market Risk” in
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 26 and
27 herein.

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data:

Financial Statement Schedules (Item 15(a)
2)

Financial statement schedules have been omitted
because either they are not applicable or the required
information is included in the financial statements or the notes
thereto.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
AMETEK, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of AMETEK, Inc. as of December 31, 2003
and 2002, and the related consolidated statements of income,
cash flows, and stockholders’ equity for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2003. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of
AMETEK, Inc. at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States.

As discussed in Notes 1 and 6 to the
consolidated financial statements, in 2002 AMETEK, Inc.
changed its method of accounting for goodwill in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.”

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

January 27, 2004, except for the fourth

paragraph of Note 7, pertaining to

the Company’s extension of its

Revolving Credit Facility, as to

which the date is February 25, 2004


AMETEK, Inc.

Consolidated Statement of Income

(1)

Amounts have been restated to reflect a
    two-for-one stock split effective February 27, 2004.

See accompanying notes.


AMETEK, Inc.

Consolidated Balance Sheet

(1)

Share amounts have been restated to reflect a
    two-for-one stock split effective February 27, 2004.

See accompanying notes.


AMETEK, Inc.

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’
Equity

(1)

Amounts presented are net of tax based on an
    average tax rate of 35%, except for foreign currency translation
    adjustments, which are presented on a pretax basis.

(2)

Includes reclassification adjustment for (losses)
    gains included in net income for 2003, 2002, and 2001 of
    $0.1 million, ($0.1) million, and $0.6 million,
    respectively.

See accompanying notes.


AMETEK, Inc.

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

See accompanying notes.


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

1.     Significant
Accounting Policies

Basis of Consolidation

The accompanying consolidated financial
statements reflect the operations, financial position and cash
flows of AMETEK, Inc. (the “Company”), and
include the accounts of the Company and subsidiaries, after
elimination of all significant intercompany transactions in
consolidation. The Company’s investments in 50% or less
owned joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method of
accounting. Such investments are not significant.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect amounts reported in the financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.

Cash Equivalents, Securities, and Other
Investments

All highly liquid investments with maturities of
three months or less when purchased are considered cash
equivalents. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, all of the
Company’s equity securities and fixed-income securities
(primarily those of a captive insurance subsidiary) are
classified as “available-for-sale”, although the
Company may hold fixed-income securities until their maturity
dates. The aggregate market value of such securities at
December 31, 2003 and 2002 was: 2003 —
$14.8 million ($13.4 million amortized cost) and
2002 — $13.9 million ($14.0 million
amortized cost). The temporary unrealized gain or loss on such
securities is recorded as a separate component of other
comprehensive income (in stockholders’ equity) at
December 31, 2003, and is not material. The Company
recognized other-than-temporary impairment losses against
earnings of $0.7 million in 2003 and $0.3 million in
2002. Certain of the Company’s other investments are
accounted for by the equity method.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or
market, cost being determined for the majority of inventories by
the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method of inventory valuation, and
market on the basis of the lower of replacement cost or
estimated net proceeds from sales. The excess of the first-in,
first-out (FIFO) value over the LIFO value at
December 31, 2003 and 2002 was $26.8 million and
$27.0 million, respectively.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost.
Expenditures for additions to plant facilities, or that extend
their useful lives, are capitalized. The cost of minor tools,
jigs, and dies, and maintenance and repairs is charged to
operations as incurred. Depreciation of plant and equipment is
calculated principally on a straight-line basis over the
estimated useful lives of the related assets.

Revenue Recognition

The Company generally recognizes revenue when
products are shipped and services are rendered. The policy with
respect to sales returns and allowances generally provides that
a customer may not return products, or be given allowances,
except at the Company’s option. Accruals for sales returns,
other allowances, and estimated warranty costs are provided at
the time of shipment based upon past experience, and are
adjusted periodically to reflect actual expenses. The warranty
periods for products sold vary widely among the Company’s
operations, but for the most part do not exceed one year. The
Company calculates its warranty expense provision based on past
warranty experience and adjustments are made periodically to
reflect actual


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

warranty expenses. At December 31, 2003 and
2002, the accrual for future warranty obligations was
$6.9 million and $6.4 million, respectively.

Research and Development

Company-funded research and development costs are
charged to operations as incurred and during the past three
years were: 2003 — $23.4 million,
2002 — $23.7 million, and 2001 —
$22.6 million.

Earnings Per Share

The calculation of basic earnings per share is
based on the average number of common shares outstanding during
the period. The calculation of diluted earnings per share
includes the effect of all potentially dilutive securities
(primarily outstanding common stock options). The following
table (computed on a post-stock split basis) presents the number
of shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share
and diluted earnings per share:

Foreign Currency Translation

Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are
translated using exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet
date, and their results of operations are translated using
average exchange rates for the year.

Certain transactions of the Company and its
subsidiaries are made in currencies other than their functional
currency. Exchange gains and losses from those transactions
generally are included in operating results for the year.
Certain foreign currency transactions have been designated as
hedges of an underlying item. Exchange gains and losses on those
transactions are deferred in other comprehensive income to the
extent they are effective as hedges.

Stock-Based Compensation

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation

(SFAS 123) and SFAS No. 148,

Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and
Disclosures

, which amends SFAS 123, encourage entities
to recognize compensation expense for stock-based employee
compensation plans at fair value, but provide the option of
measuring compensation expense using the intrinsic value method
prescribed in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

(APB 25).
The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance
with APB 25. The exercise price of stock options, set at
the time of the grant, is not less than the fair market value
per share at the date of the grant. Had the Company applied the
fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123, pretax
stock-based compensation expense would have increased
$4.9 million, $4.5 million, and $3.2 million for
2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. Diluted earnings per share
would have been lower by $0.04, $0.03, and $0.03 on a post-stock
split basis for the respective years. Options generally have a
four-to ten-year vesting period from date of grant. Note 9
presents pro forma results of operations as if SFAS 123 had
been used to account for stock-based compensation plans.


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Derivative Financial Instruments

The Company makes infrequent use of derivative
financial instruments to manage interest rate, foreign exchange,
and forward contract exposure. The Company does not hold or
trade in derivatives for speculative purposes. Interest rate
swap and cap agreements are sometimes used to manage the
interest rate characteristics of certain outstanding revolving
credit loans to a more desirable fixed or variable rate basis,
or to limit the Company’s exposure to rising interest
rates. These swaps and caps are matched with the underlying
fixed or variable rate debt, and any periodic cash payments are
accrued on a settlement basis and accounted for as adjustments
to interest costs. There were no interest rate swap or cap
agreements in place at, or during the years ended,
December 31, 2003 or 2002. Foreign currency option
contracts, foreign currency exchange contracts, and foreign
currency swap agreements may be entered into to mitigate the
translation exposure from investments in certain foreign
subsidiaries. Foreign currency forward contracts are entered
into from time to time to hedge specific firm commitments for
certain inventory purchases or export sales, thereby minimizing
the Company’s exposure to foreign currency fluctuation.
These contracts may be entered into for periods generally not
exceeding one year. When present, all derivative financial
instruments are accounted for in accordance with
SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities”. There was one forward
contract outstanding at December 31, 2003, which was
acquired with one of the 2003 acquisitions, for the purchase of
certain inventories. The amount of the forward contract and the
gain recognized in earnings on the underlying transactions were
not material to the Company. The Company had no derivatives
outstanding at December 31, 2002.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Goodwill represents costs in excess of fair
values assigned to the underlying net assets of acquired
businesses. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 142,
goodwill was amortized on a straight-line basis primarily over a
30-year period for all purchase business combinations made prior
to July 1, 2001. Business combinations can also result in
other intangible assets being recognized. Amortization of such
intangible assets, if applicable, occurs over their estimated
useful lives. SFAS No. 142 required companies to cease
amortizing goodwill that existed at June 30, 2001, and
established criteria for testing goodwill for impairment on at
least an annual basis, or when events occur that might reduce
the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value.

Reclassifications

Certain amounts appearing in the prior
year’s financial statements and supporting footnote
disclosures have been reclassified to conform to the current
year’s presentation.

2.     Stock Split

(Subsequent to December 31,
2003)

On January 27, 2004, the Company’s
Board of Directors approved a two-for-one split of its common
stock distributed on February 27, 2004, to shareholders of
record on February 13, 2004. All share and per share
amounts included in this report have been restated to reflect
the stock split.

3.     Accounting
Pronouncements

In January 2003, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Interpretation
No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities” (“FIN 46”) and subsequently
revised it in December 2003 with the issuance of FIN 46-R.
FIN 46-R requires a company to consolidate a variable
interest entity if it is designated as a primary beneficiary of
that entity even if the company does not have a majority voting
interest in the entity. A variable interest entity is generally
defined as an entity in which equity investors do not have the
characteristics of a controlling financial interest, or do not
have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its own
activities without additional financial support from other
parties, or whose owners lack the risks


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

and rewards of ownership. FIN 46-R also has
a disclosure requirement for all variable interest entities of a
company, even if the company is not the primary beneficiary. The
Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting
FIN 46-R applicable to variable interest entities created
prior to February 1, 2003 but does not expect a material
impact upon its adoption.

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(“SFAS”) No. 143, “Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations.” SFAS No. 143 addresses
financial accounting and reporting for legal obligations
associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets
that result from the acquisition, construction, development and
normal operation of a long-lived asset. SFAS No. 143
requires that the fair value of a liability for an asset
retirement obligation be recognized in the period in which it is
incurred, if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made.
The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as a part
of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset and subsequently
allocated to expense over the asset’s useful life. The
adoption of SFAS No. 143 had no effect on the
Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial
position, or cash flows.

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company
adopted SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities”.
SFAS No. 146 replaces Emerging Issues Task Force
(“EITF”) Issue No. 94-3, “Liability
Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other
Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a
Restructuring).” Among other things, SFAS No. 146
requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or
disposal activity be recognized when the liability is incurred
instead of at the date of an entity’s commitment to an exit
plan, as under EITF Issue No. 94-3. The initial adoption of
SFAS No. 146 had no effect on the Company’s
consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash
flows.

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company
adopted the recognition and measurement provisions of FASB
Interpretation No. 45, “Guarantor’s Accounting
and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others,”
(“FIN No. 45”) for guarantees issued or
modified after December 31, 2002. FIN No. 45
requires that upon issuance of a guarantee, the entity must
recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation it
assumes under that guarantee. The Company does not provide
significant guarantees on a routine basis. As a result, the
adoption of FIN No. 45 did not have an impact on the
Company’s financial statements. The disclosures required by
FIN No. 45, are included in Note 16 of this
Report, “Guarantees.”

Effective December 31, 2003, the Company
adopted EITF Issue 03-1, “The Meaning of
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain
Investments.” EITF Issue 03-1 reached a consensus that
the quantitative and qualitative disclosures presented in
SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments
in Debt and Equity Securities,” are required for fiscal
years ending after December 15, 2003, and that the
disclosures will only be required for the latest year presented
in the financial statements. The disclosures required by EITF
Issue 03-1 are included in Note 1 of this Report,
“Significant Accounting Policies.”

4.     Acquisitions

In 2003, the Company made three acquisitions. In
January 2003, the Company acquired Airtechnology Holdings
Limited (Airtechnology) from Candover Partners Limited, for
approximately 50 million British pounds sterling, or about
$80 million in cash. Airtechnology is a supplier of motors,
fans and environmental control systems for the aerospace and
defense markets. Airtechnology is a part of the Company’s
Electromechanical Group. In February 2003, the Company acquired
Solidstate Controls, Inc. (SCI) from Marmon Industrial
Companies LLC for approximately $34 million in cash. SCI is
a leading supplier of uninterruptible power supply systems for
the process and power generation industries. SCI is a part of
the Company’s Electronic Instruments Group. In August 2003,
the Company acquired Chandler Instruments Company, LLC.
(Chandler Instruments), for approximately $49 million in
cash. Chandler Instruments is a


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

leading manufacturer of high-quality measurement
instrumentation for the oil and gas industry. Chandler
Instruments is a part of the Company’s Electronic
Instruments Group. The aggregate purchase price paid for the
2003 acquisitions is subject to adjustment for finalization of
the value of the net assets acquired.

The operating results of the above acquisitions
are included in the Company’s consolidated results from
their respective dates of acquisition.

The acquisitions have been accounted for using
the purchase method in accordance with SFAS No. 141,
“Business Combinations.” The following table presents
the tentative allocation of the aggregate purchase price for the
2003 acquisitions based on their estimated fair values:

The amount allocated to goodwill is reflective of
the benefit the Company expects to realize from expanding its
presence in high-end technical motors through Airtechnology, the
process and power generation industries through SCI and the oil
and gas production and refining markets through Chandler
Instruments.

Of the $29.9 million in other intangible
assets, $15.0 million was assigned to intangibles with
estimated remaining amortizable lives of up to 15 years.
The remaining $14.9 million was assigned to infinite-lived
intangibles other than goodwill.

The Company is in the process of completing
third-party valuations of certain tangible and intangible assets
acquired with certain of the acquired businesses. Therefore, the
allocation of purchase price is subject to revision.

In 2001, the Company made three acquisitions. In
May 2001, the Company acquired from SPX Corporation the assets
of GS Electric, a leading U.S. manufacturer of universal
and permanent magnet motors for the global floor care and other
markets for approximately $32.0 million in cash.
GS Electric is now part of the Company’s
Electromechanical Group. In July 2001, the Company acquired
EDAX, Inc., a leading manufacturer of analytic instrumentation,
which complements the Company’s process and analytical
instruments product lines, from Panta Electronics for
approximately $37.0 million in cash. In December 2001, the
Company acquired, from PerkinElmer, Inc., Instruments for
Research and Applied Science (IRAS), a leading developer and
manufacturer of advanced analytical instrumentation that is used
in a number of applications including nuclear spectroscopy,
research electrochemistry and electronic signal processing for
approximately $63.0 million. EDAX and IRAS are now part of
the Company’s Electronic Instruments Group. Together with
the EDAX acquisition, IRAS greatly expands the Company’s
presence in the laboratory and research markets.


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table provides pro forma results of
operations for the year ended December 31, 2002, as if the
2003 acquisitions had been made as of January 1, 2002. The
pro forma amounts are not necessarily indicative of the results
that would have occurred if the acquisitions had been completed
on the date indicated. Pro forma net sales, net income and
diluted earnings per share would not have been materially
different than the amounts reported in the consolidated
statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2003.

Had the 2001 acquisitions been made at the
beginning of 2001, pro forma net sales for 2001 would have been
$1,106.3 million. Pro forma net income, after giving effect
to the amortization of goodwill, and diluted earnings per share
would not have been materially different, as a result of the
acquisitions, for the year.

5.     Other Balance
Sheet Information


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

6.     Goodwill

Effective January 1, 2002, the Company
ceased the amortization of goodwill in accordance with
SFAS No. 142. Results adjusted to exclude amounts no
longer being amortized, are as follows (in thousands, except per
share amounts):

As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, goodwill
by segment was: Electronic Instrument Group (EIG) —
$309.0 million and $244.1 million; Electromechanical
Group (EMG) — $197.9 million and
$147.8 million. Changes in the carrying value of goodwill
during 2003 were the result of the three acquisitions, described
in Note 4, and the translation effect of changes in foreign
currency exchange rates during the year.

Goodwill is subject to annual impairment testing
as required under SFAS No. 142. The Company conducts this
review for impairment for all of its reporting units during the
fourth quarter of its fiscal year. The results of this review in
the fourth quarter of 2003 determined that the Company’s
goodwill was not impaired.

7.     Debt

At December 31, 2003 and 2002, long-term
debt consisted of the following:

Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at
December 31, 2003 are as follows: $0.1 million in
2005; $0.4 million in 2006; $0.4 million in 2007;
$225.3 million in 2008; $0.3 million in 2009; and
$91.1 million in 2010 and thereafter. The Company’s
senior notes and its revolving credit loans have equal priority
with respect to liquidation preference.

In September 2003, the Company issued
50 million British pound sterling (approximately
$80 million) senior notes due in 2010.


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company has an unsecured $300 million
Revolving Credit Facility which had an original expiration date
of September 17, 2006. On February 25, 2004, the
agreement was amended to change the expiration date to
February 25, 2009. Except for the new 5-year term, the
Credit Facility is essentially the same as the original
agreement. Interest rates on outstanding loans under the
Revolving Credit Facility are either at the London Interbank
Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a negotiated spread over LIBOR, or at
the U.S. prime rate plus a spread. At December 31,
2003, the Company had $36.0 million in revolving credit
loans outstanding, at a blended rate of 2.4%, all of which is
included in short-term borrowings. At December 31, 2003,
$239.1 million was unused and available under the Revolving
Credit Facility. The Company also had outstanding letters of
credit totaling $24.9 million at December 31, 2003.

The Revolving Credit Facility places certain
restrictions on allowable foreign debt, and the measurement of
the pro forma effect of potential acquisitions in certain debt
covenant compliance calculations. The Revolving Credit Facility
also places certain restrictions on certain cash payments,
including the payment of dividends. At December 31, 2003,
retained earnings of approximately $24.6 million were not
subject to the dividend limitation.

The Company’s accounts receivable financing
agreement with a bank, which expires in 2004, provides for
borrowings of up to $75 million against its trade accounts
receivable. At December 31, 2003 and 2002,
$64.0 million and $65.0 million, respectively, was
borrowed under this secured credit facility. The weighted
average interest rate on the amount outstanding under the
accounts receivable securitization at December 31, 2003 and
2002 was 1.8% and 2.1%, respectively.

Foreign subsidiaries of the Company had available
credit facilities with local foreign lenders of approximately
$34.1 million, of which $8.7 million was outstanding
at December 31, 2003, including $2.6 million reported
in long-term debt.

The weighted average interest rate on total debt
outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was 5.6% and
5.4%, respectively.

8.     Stockholders’
Equity

In 2003, the Company repurchased 380,000 shares
(on a post-stock split basis) of its common stock, under a
previous share repurchase authorization at a total cost of
$5.8 million. This compares with repurchases of 473,800
shares at a total cost of $7.3 million in 2002. In March
2003, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a new
$50 million share repurchase program, adding to the
remainder of the previous share repurchase program. At
December 31, 2003, approximately $52.4 million of the
current share purchase authorization was unexpended. At
December 31, 2003, the Company held approximately
2.1 million shares in its treasury at a cost of
$29.6 million compared with approximately 1.6 million
shares at a cost of $24.2 million at the end of 2002. The
number of shares outstanding at December 31, 2003 was
67.0 million shares, compared with 66.1 million shares
at December 31, 2002.

The Company has a Shareholder Rights Plan, under
which the Company’s Board of Directors declared a dividend
of one-half of a Right for each share of Company common stock
owned. The Plan provides, under certain conditions involving
acquisition of the Company’s common stock, that holders of
Rights, except for the acquiring entity, would be entitled
(i) to purchase shares of preferred stock at a specified
exercise price, or (ii) to purchase shares of common stock
of the Company, or the acquiring company, having a value of
twice the Rights exercise price. The Rights under the Plan
expire in 2007.


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

9.     Stock Option
and Award Plans

The information that follows gives effect to the
two-for-one stock split in February 2004.

The Company’s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan
permits the grant of up to 4.0 million shares of common
stock to eligible employees and nonemployee directors of the
Company in the form of options, phantom stock awards, restricted
stock awards and stock rights. The Company’s 1999 Stock
Incentive Plan permits the grant of up to 4.0 million
shares of common stock. The Company’s 1997 Stock Incentive
Plan permits the grant of up to 7.6 million shares of
common stock. Stock options may be granted as non-qualified
stock options or as incentive stock options.

Restricted awards of the Company’s common
stock are made to eligible employees and non-employee directors
at such cost to the grantee as the stock option committee of the
Board of Directors may determine. Such shares are issued subject
to certain conditions with respect to transfer and other
restrictions as prescribed by the plan. Upon issuance of
restricted stock, unearned compensation, equivalent to the
excess of the market price of the shares awarded over the price
paid by the grantee at the date of grant, is charged to
stockholders’ equity and is amortized to expense over the
periods until the restrictions lapse. Three hundred thousand
shares of restricted stock that were granted to the
Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 2000
vested in the third quarter of 2003 and the unamortized
compensation expense totaling $2.1 million was charged to
expense. There was no restricted stock outstanding at
December 31, 2003. No restricted stock awards were granted
in 2003 or 2002. Under the terms of the existing Stock Incentive
Plans, at December 31, 2003, 777,106 additional shares of
restricted stock may be granted. In January 2004, the Company
adopted a change in its long-term incentive compensation program
for officers and other senior managers to grant approximately
50% of its long-term incentive awards as restricted stock and
50% as stock options, rather than primarily stock options as it
had previously. This change becomes effective in 2004.

In 2003, the Company reserved 17,094 shares of
common stock, and there were reductions for retirements and
terminations which totaled 5,414 shares, under a Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”), bringing the total
number of shares reserved to 172,480 shares of common stock as
of December 31, 2003. Charges to expense under the SERP,
not significant in amount, are considered pension expense (see
Note 12), with the offsetting credit reflected in
stockholders’ equity.

At December 31, 2003, 8,615,898 (9,938,132
in 2002) shares of common stock were reserved for issuance,
including stock options outstanding, under the 2002, 1999 and
1997 plans. The options are exercisable at prices not less than
market prices on dates of grant, and in installments over four-
to ten-year periods from dates of grant. The Company had no
stock appreciation rights outstanding at December 31, 2003
or 2002. Stock appreciation rights, if and when issued, are
exercisable for cash and/or shares of the Company’s common
stock when the related option is exercised. A charge to income
would be made for these rights and the related options.


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

A summary of the Company’s stock option
activity and related information for the years ended
December 31 follows:

The following table summarizes information
pertaining to the Company’s stock options outstanding at
December 31, 2003:


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company applies Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees”, in accounting for its stock option plans, which
recognizes expense based on the intrinsic value of the award at
the date of grant. Since stock options have been issued with the
exercise price per share equal to the fair market value per
share at the date of grant, no compensation expense has
resulted. Had the Company accounted for stock options in
accordance with the fair value method prescribed by SFAS
No. 123 “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation,” the Company would have reported the
following pro forma results for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001:

The weighted average fair value of each option
grant on the grant date was $6.19 for 2003, $6.54 for 2002, and
$4.44 for 2001. The fair value of each option was estimated
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions for options granted in each of the
last three years.

10.     Leases

Minimum aggregate rental commitments under
non-cancellable leases in effect at December 31, 2003
(principally for production and administrative facilities and
equipment) amounted to $25.8 million, consisting of annual
payments of $6.3 million in 2004, $5.3 million in
2005, $4.3 million in 2006, $2.9 million in 2007,
$2.5 million in 2008 and $4.5 million in 2009 and
thereafter. Rental expense was $9.0 million in 2003,
$8.5 million in 2002 and $8.9 million in 2001.


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

11.     Income
Taxes

The components of income before income taxes and
the details of the provision for income taxes are as follows:

Significant components of the Company’s
deferred tax (asset) liability as of December 31 are
as follows:


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The effective rate of the provision for income
taxes reconciles to the statutory rate as follows:

(a)

Includes the reversal of certain prior
    years’ excess federal and state income tax accruals.

(b)

At year-end 2001, U.S. tax authorities closed
    several open years for which the Company’s income tax
    returns were under examination. As a result, the Company
    recognized a tax benefit of $10.5 million after tax. The
    benefit consisted of tax refunds received of $4.4 million
    (including interest) and the reversal of certain federal and
    state tax accruals totaling $6.1 million associated with
    the closed years.

During 2003, the Company fully utilized available
operating loss carryforwards from prior years, which totaled
$0.9 million. At December 31, 2003, the Company had no
net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income.

Undistributed earnings of the Company’s
foreign subsidiaries amounted to approximately
$60.8 million at December 31, 2003. Those earnings are
considered to be indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no
provision for U.S. deferred taxes has been made. Upon
distribution of those earnings to the United States, the Company
would be subject to U.S. income taxes (subject to a reduction
for foreign tax credits) and withholding taxes payable to the
various foreign countries. Determination of the amount of
unrecognized deferred income tax liability is not practicable.

12.     Retirement
and Pension Plans

The Company sponsors several retirement and
pension plans in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries
covering eligible salaried and hourly employees. The plans
generally provide benefits based on participants’ years of
service and/or compensation. Following is a brief description of
each of the Company’s retirement and pension plans.

The Company maintains noncontributory defined
benefit pension plans. Benefits for eligible U.S. and foreign
salaried and hourly employees are funded through trusts
established in conjunction with the plans. The Company’s
funding policy with respect to its defined benefit plans is to
contribute amounts that provide for benefits in accordance with
legal funding requirements. Assets of these plans are invested
in a variety of equity and debt instruments and in pooled
temporary funds, as well as in the Company’s common stock.

The Company also sponsors a 401(k) retirement and
savings plan for eligible employees. Participants in the savings
plan may contribute a portion of their compensation on a
before-tax basis. The Company matches employee contributions on
a dollar-for-dollar basis up to 6% of eligible compensation or a
maximum of $1,200 per participant.

The Company’s retirement and savings plan
has a defined contribution retirement feature principally to
cover U.S. salaried employees joining the Company after
December 31, 1996. Under this retirement feature, the
Company makes contributions for eligible employees based on a
pre-established percentage of the covered


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

employee’s salary. Employees of certain of
the Company’s foreign operations participate in various
local plans that in the aggregate are not significant.

The Company also has a defined contribution
retirement plan for most of its acquired businesses for the
benefit of eligible employees. Company contributions are made
for each participant up to a specified percentage, not to exceed
6% of the participant’s base compensation.

The Company has nonqualified unfunded retirement
plans for its Directors and certain retired employees. It also
provides supplemental retirement benefits, through contractual
arrangements and/or a SERP covering certain current and former
employees of the Company. These supplemental benefits are
designed to compensate the employee for retirement benefits that
would have been provided under the Company’s primary
retirement plan, except for statutory limitations on
compensation that may be taken into account under those plans.
The projected benefit obligations of the SERP and the contracts
will primarily be funded by a grant of shares of the
Company’s common stock upon retirement or termination of
the employee. The Company is providing for these obligations by
charges to earnings over the applicable periods.

The Company uses a measurement date of
December 31 for its U.S. pension plans.

The following tables provide information on
benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets for the funded
and unfunded U.S. defined benefit plans for 2003 and 2002:

The accumulated benefit obligation
(“ABO”) at the end of 2003 and 2002 consisted of the
following:


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

On an ABO basis, in the aggregate the
Company’s funded U.S. defined benefit pension plans were
102% funded at December 31, 2003, compared with 97% funded
at December 31, 2002. For a presentation of the plans whose
ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets, see page 50.

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine
end-of-year benefit obligations:

The asset allocation for the Company’s U.S.
defined benefit pension plans at December 31, 2003 and
2002, and the target allocation for 2004 by asset category,
follows. The Company periodically reviews its asset allocation
taking into consideration plan liabilities, plan benefit payment
streams and the investment strategy of the pension plans. The
actual asset allocation is monitored frequently relative to the
established targets and ranges, and, when necessary, rebalancing
will occur.

(a)

Amount in 2003 includes a 9% investment in
    alternative assets consisting of diversified hedge funds.
    Amounts in 2003 and 2002 also include cash and cash equivalents.

The fair value of plan assets for these plans was
$318.2 million and $279.0 million at December 31,
2003 and 2002, respectively. The expected long-term rate of
return on these plan assets was 8.90% in 2003 and 9.25% in 2002.
Equity securities include AMETEK, Inc. common stock in the
amount of $27.6 million (8.6% of total plan investments)
and $22.0 million (7.9% of total plan investments) at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

The objectives of the AMETEK, Inc. defined
benefit plans’ investment strategy are to maximize the
plans’ funded status over the long term and minimize
Company contributions and plan expense. Because the goal is to
optimize returns over the long term, an investment policy that
favors equity holdings has been established. Since there may be
periods of time where both equity and fixed-income markets
provide poor returns, an allocation to alternative assets may be
made to improve the overall portfolio’s diversification and
return potential.

The equity portfolio will be diversified by
market capitalization and style. The equity portfolio may also
include an international component.

The objective of the fixed-income portion of the
pension assets is to provide interest rate sensitivity for a
portion of the assets and to provide diversification. The
fixed-income portfolio will be diversified within certain
quality and maturity guidelines in an attempt to minimize the
adverse effects of interest rate fluctuations.

Certain investments are prohibited, including
venture capital, private placements, unregistered or restricted
stock, margin trading, commodities, limited partnerships, short
selling, and rights and warrants.


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Swaps, options, forwards and futures may be used
to avoid market exposure, and to manage foreign currency
exposure.

Based on current economic conditions, AMETEK
estimates that it will make cash contributions of approximately
$5 to $6 million to its worldwide defined benefit pension
plans in 2004.

The following table provides the amounts
recognized in the consolidated balance sheets at
December 31, 2003 and 2002 for the Company’s U.S.
plans:

At the end of 2003 and 2002, the projected
benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation, and fair
value of plan assets for pension plans with a projected benefit
obligation in excess of plan assets, and pension plans with an
accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets, were as
follows (in thousands):


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table provides the components of
net periodic benefit expense (income) for the Company’s
U.S. based pension plans for the three years ended
December 31:

The weighted-average assumptions used to
determine the above net periodic expense (income)
were:

The expected return on plan assets assumption was
developed based on a review of historical investment returns for
the investment categories for the defined benefit pension
assets. This review also considered current capital market
conditions and expectations of projected future investment
returns. The estimates of future capital market returns by asset
category are lower than the actual long-term historical returns.
The current low interest rate environment influences this
outlook. Therefore, the assumed rate of return selected for 2004
of 8.90% is lower than the rate that would have been selected
based solely on the fund’s historical return.


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

In connection with its acquisition of
United-Kingdom-based Airtechnology in January 2003, the Company
acquired a contributory defined benefit pension plan covering
eligible salaried and hourly employees, and former employees of
Airtechnology.

Information relative to the Airtechnology pension
plan, prepared in accordance with SFAS No. 87, is as
follows:

The above amounts were determined based on an
assumed discount rate of 5.50% and an expected return on plan
assets of 7.20%.

The Company has a deferred compensation plan,
which allows employees whose compensation exceeds the statutory
IRS limit for retirement benefits to defer a portion of earned
bonus compensation. The plan permits deferred amounts to be
deemed invested in either, or a combination of (a) an
interest-bearing fund, benefits from which are payable out of
the general assets of the Company, or (b) a fund which
invests in shares of the Company’s common stock on behalf
of the employee. The amount deferred under the plan, including
income earned, was $4.3 million and $2.8 million at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Initial employee
deferrals began January 1, 2000. Administrative expense for
the plan is borne by the Company and is not significant.

The Company provides limited postretirement
benefits other than pensions for certain retirees and a small
number of employees. Benefits under these arrangements are not
significant. The Company also provides limited postemployment
benefits for certain former or inactive employees after
employment but before retirement. Those benefits, which are not
significant in amount, are accounted for on the accrual basis of
accounting

.


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

13.     Financial
Instruments

The Company makes limited use of derivative
financial instruments, and does not use them for trading
purposes. Such instruments are generally used to manage
well-defined interest rate risks and to hedge firm commitments
related to certain export sales denominated in a foreign
currency.

Interest rate swap and cap agreements are used to
reduce the potential impact of increases in interest rates on
the Company’s borrowings. Accordingly, the Company may
enter into these agreements to effectively convert floating-rate
loans to fixed-rate loans and to cap certain interest rates that
are indexed to LIBOR rates to reduce the risk from rising
interest rates. During 2003 and 2002, no such agreements were
outstanding.

Cross-currency and interest rate agreements may
be used to hedge a portion of the Company’s net investment
in certain foreign subsidiaries. During 2003 and 2002, no such
agreements were outstanding.

Forward currency contracts may be entered into
from time to time to hedge certain firm inventory purchases and
export sales commitments denominated in foreign currencies. The
purpose of such hedging activities is to protect the Company
from the risk that the eventual net cash dollar inflows and
outflows resulting from the purchase of certain inventories or
the sales to foreign customers will be adversely affected by
changes in exchange rates. The terms of the currency contracts
are dependent on the firm commitment and generally do not exceed
one year. Deferred gains and losses on such contracts are
recognized in operations as the related purchases and sales
occur. During 2003, the Company was party to one forward
contract for the purchase of certain inventories in connection
with one of its 2003 acquisitions. The amounts involved are not
material to the Company. During 2002, the Company was not party
to any forward currency contracts.

The estimated fair values of the Company’s
other financial instruments are compared below to the recorded
amounts at December 31, 2003 and 2002. Cash, cash
equivalents, and marketable securities are recorded at fair
value at December 31, 2003 and 2002 in the accompanying
balance sheet.

The fair value of fixed-income investments is
based on quoted market prices. The fair value of equity
investments is based on amounts reported by the investee. The
fair value of short-term borrowings is based on the carrying
value at year-end. The fair value of the Company’s
long-term debt, which consists primarily of publicly traded
notes, is based on the quoted market price for such notes and
borrowing rates currently available to the Company for loans
with similar terms and maturities.

14.

Additional Income Statement and Cash Flow
    Information

Included in other income are interest and other
investment income of $1.0 million, $0.9 million, and
$2.0 million for 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. Income
taxes paid in 2003, 2002, and 2001 were $25.1 million,
$26.9 million, and $27.6 million, respectively. Cash
paid for interest was $24.1 million, $24.0 million,
and $27.5 million in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively.


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

15.

Business Segment and Geographic
    Information

Descriptive Information About Reportable
Segments

The Company has two reportable segments, the
Electronic Instruments Group and the Electromechanical Group.
The Company organizes its businesses primarily on the basis of
product type, production processes, distribution methods, and
management organizations.

The Electronic Instruments Group produces
instrumentation for various electronic applications that service
certain types of transportation industries, including aircraft
cockpit instruments and displays, airborne electronics systems
that monitor and record flight and engine data, and pressure,
temperature, flow, and liquid-level sensors for commercial
airlines and aircraft and jet engine manufacturers. The Group
also produces analytical instrumentation for the laboratory and
research markets, as well as instruments for food service
equipment, measurement and monitoring instrumentation for
various process industries, and instruments and complete
instrument panels for heavy trucks and heavy construction and
agricultural vehicles. The Group also manufactures
high-temperature-resistant and corrosion-resistant materials, as
well as thermoplastic compounds for automotive, appliance, and
telecommunications applications.

The Electromechanical Group produces air-moving
electric motors and motor-blower systems for manufacturers of
floor care appliances and outdoor power equipment, fractional
horsepower and brushless air-moving motors for aerospace, mass
transit, medical equipment, computer and business machine
applications. The Group also produces high-purity metal powders
and alloys in powder, strip, and wire form for electronic
components, aircraft and automotive products. Sales of electric
motors, blowers, and fans represented 42.2% in 2003, 41.7% in
2002, and 44.1% in 2001 of the Company’s consolidated net
sales.

Measurement of Segment Results

Segment operating income represents sales, less
all direct costs and expenses (including certain administrative
and other expenses) applicable to each segment, but does not
include an allocation of interest expense. Net sales by segment
are reported after elimination of intra- and inter-segment
sales, which are insignificant in amount. Such sales are
generally based on prevailing market prices. Reported segment
assets include allocations directly related to the
segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist primarily of
investments, insurance deposits, and deferred taxes.


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Reportable Segment Financial
Information

(1)

Includes $13.9 million in 2003,
    $2.1 million in 2002, and $6.0 million in 2001 from
    acquired businesses.

(2)

2001 includes goodwill amortization of
    $11.9 million. Goodwill amortization is not permitted after
    2001 in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and
    Other Intangible Assets”.


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Geographic Areas

Information about the Company’s operations
in different geographic areas for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001 is shown below. Net sales
were attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the
customer. Accordingly, U.S. export sales are reported in
international sales.

(a)

Includes U.S. export sales of
    $200.8 million in 2003, $192.0 million in 2002, and
    $170.0 million in 2001.

(b)

Represents long-lived assets of foreign-based
    operations only.

16.

Guarantees

The Company does not provide significant
guarantees on a routine basis. The Company primarily issues
guarantees, stand-by letters of credit and surety bonds in the
ordinary course of its business to provide financial or
performance assurance to third parties on behalf of its
consolidated subsidiaries to support or enhance the
subsidiary’s stand-alone creditworthiness. The amounts
subject to certain of these agreements vary depending on the
covered contracts actually outstanding at any particular point
in time. The maximum amount of future payment obligations
relative to these various guarantees was approximately
$42.7 million, and the outstanding liability under those
guarantees was approximately $28.6 million, which is
recorded in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31,
2003. These guarantees expire from 2004 through 2006.

Indemnifications

In conjunction with certain acquisition and
divestiture transactions, the Company may agree to make payments
to compensate or indemnify other parties for possible future
unfavorable financial consequences resulting from specified
events (e.g., breaches of contract obligations, or retention of
previously existing


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

environmental, tax or employee liabilities) whose
terms range in duration and often are not explicitly defined.
Where appropriate, the obligation for such indemnifications is
recorded as a liability. Because the amount of these types of
indemnifications generally is not specifically stated, the
overall maximum amount of the obligation under such
indemnifications cannot be reasonably estimated. Further, the
Company indemnifies its directors and officers who are or were
serving at the Company’s request in such capacities.
Historically, any such costs incurred to settle claims related
to these indemnifications have been minimal for the Company. The
Company believes that future payments, if any, under all
existing indemnification agreements would not have a material
impact on its results of operations, financial position, or cash
flows.

Product Warranties

The Company provides limited warranties in
connection with the sale of its products. The warranty periods
for products sold vary widely among the Company’s
operations, but for the most part do not exceed one year. The
Company calculates its warranty expense provision based on past
warranty experience and adjustments are made periodically to
reflect actual warranty expenses.

The change in the carrying amount of the
Company’s accrued product warranty obligation from
December 31, 2002 to December 31, 2003 was as follows
(in thousands):

Certain settlements of warranties made during the
period were for specific non-recurring warranty obligations.


AMETEK, Inc.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

17.

Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

(a)

The sum of quarterly earnings per share may not
    equal total year earnings per share due to the effect of the
    Company’s purchasing shares of its outstanding common stock.

(b)

Amounts were restated to reflect a two-for-one
    stock split effective February 27, 2004.

(c)

Trading ranges are based on the New York Stock
    Exchange composite tape.


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

The Company maintains disclosure controls and
procedures that are designed to ensure that information required
to be disclosed in the Company’s reports submitted under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
“Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized
and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and
forms of the SEC and that such information is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosures.

The Company carried out an evaluation, under the
supervision and with the participation of our management,
including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer, on the effectiveness of the design and operation of the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to
Exchange Act Rule 13a–15, and has concluded that the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective
for their intended purposes as of the end of the period covered
by this report on Form 10-K. There have been no significant
changes in the Company’s internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to the date of their evaluation.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant

a)

Directors of the Registrant.

Information with respect to Directors of the
Company is set forth under the heading “Election of
Directors” in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the
2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein
by reference.

b)

Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Information with respect to executive officers of
the company is set forth under the heading “Executive
Officers” in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the
2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein
by reference.

c)

Section 16(a) Compliance.

Information concerning compliance with
Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is set
forth under the heading “Compliance with Section 16(a)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934” in the
Company’s Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.

d)

Identification of the Audit Committee.

Information concerning the audit committee of the
Company is set forth under the heading “Board
Committees” in the Company’s Proxy Statement for the
2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein
by reference.

e)

Audit Committee Financial Expert.

Information concerning the audit committee
financial expert of the Company is set forth under the heading
“Board Committees” in the Company’s Proxy
Statement for the 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is
incorporated herein by reference.


f)

Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and
    Senior Financial Officers.

The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics for the
Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers (“the
Code”). The Code may be found on the Company’s
Internet website at

www.ametek.com.

Any amendments to the
Code or any grant of a waiver from the provisions of the Code
requiring disclosure under applicable SEC rules will be
disclosed on the Company’s website.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

Information regarding executive compensation
appearing under “Compensation of Directors,”
“Executive Compensation,” “Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation,” “Compensation
Committee Report on Executive Compensation,” and
“Employment Contracts and Termination, Severance and Change
of Control Arrangements” in the 2004 Proxy Statement is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
    Matters

Equity Compensation Plan Information

The following table sets forth information as of
December 31, 2003 regarding all of the Company’s
existing compensation plans pursuant to which shares of equity
securities are authorized for issuance to employees and
non-employee directors:

Information regarding security ownership of
certain beneficial owners and management appearing under
“Stock Ownership,” “Other Beneficial
Ownership,” and “Stock Options and Stock Appreciation
Rights” in the 2004 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein
by reference.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions

Information appearing under “Certain
Relationships and Transactions” in the 2004 Proxy Statement
is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and
    Services

Information appearing under “Independent
Auditor Information” in the 2004 Proxy Statement is
incorporated herein by reference.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,
    and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) (1) and (2) Financial Statements,
Financial Statement Schedules and Exhibits

(1) Financial Statements:

(2) Financial Statement Schedules:

Financial statement schedules have been omitted
    because either they are not applicable or the required
    information is included in the financial statements or the notes
    thereto.

Schedules other than that listed above are
    omitted because they are not required, are inapplicable or the
    information is otherwise shown in our Consolidated Financial
    Statements or notes thereto.

(3) Exhibits

Exhibits are shown in the index on pages 63-68 of
    this report.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

During the quarter ended December 31, 2003,
    the Company furnished the following Current Report on
    Form 8-K:

On October 21, 2003, the Company furnished a
    Current Report on Form 8-K under items 7 and 12
    reporting the Company’s sales and earnings for the quarter
    and nine months ended September 30, 2003.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

AMETEK, Inc.

By

/s/FRANK S. HERMANCE

Frank S. Hermance, Chairman of the Board,

Chief Executive Officer and Director

Dated: March 11, 2004

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.


Index to Exhibits

Item 15(a)3)






*

Management contract or compensatory plan required
    to be filed pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K.

68