Item 1A.RISK FACTORS

Prolonged unfavorable economic and market conditions could adversely affect our business.

Unfavorable general economic and market conditions in the United States and internationally, particularly in our key end markets, could have a negative impact on our sales and operations. To the extent that these factors result in continued instability of capital markets, shortages of raw materials or component parts, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of customer orders or an inability to market our products effectively, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

We are dependent upon key customers.

We rely on several key customers who represent a significant portion of our business. While we believe our relationships with our customers are generally good, our top customers could choose to reduce or terminate their relationships with us. In addition, many of our customers place orders for products on an as-needed basis and operate in cyclical industries. As a result, customer order levels have varied from period to period in the past and may vary significantly in the future. Such customer orders are dependent upon their markets and customers and may be subject to delays and cancellations. Furthermore, the average service life of certain products in our end markets has increased in recent years due to innovations in technologies and manufacturing processes, which has also allowed end users to replace parts less often. As a result of our dependence on our key customers, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition if we lost any one or more of our key customers or if there is a reduction in their demand for our products.

Our business operates in a highly competitive industry.

We operate in a global, competitive marketplace and face substantial competition from a limited number of established competitors, some of which may have greater financial resources than we do, may have a more extensive low-cost sourcing strategy and presence in low-cost regions than we do or may receive significant governmental support. Price competition is strong and, coupled with the existence of a number of cost conscious customers with significant negotiating power, has historically limited our ability to increase prices. In addition to price, competition is based on product performance and technological leadership, quality, reliability of delivery and customer service and support. If our competitors invest heavily in innovation and develop products that are more efficient or effective than our products, we may not be able to compete effectively. There can be no assurance that competition in one or more of our markets will not adversely affect us and our results of operations.

We intend to pursue acquisitions, joint ventures and alliances that involve a number of inherent risks, any of which may cause us not to realize anticipated benefits.

One aspect of our business strategy is to selectively pursue acquisitions, joint ventures and alliances that we believe will improve our market position and provide opportunities to realize operating synergies. These transactions involve inherent risks and uncertainties, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition including:

•difficulties in achieving identified financial and operating synergies, including the integration of operations, services and products;

•diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns;

•the assumption of unknown liabilities; and

•unanticipated changes in the market conditions, business and economic factors affecting such an acquisition, joint venture or alliance.

We cannot assure that we will be able to consummate any future acquisitions, joint ventures or other business combinations. If we are unable to identify or consummate suitable acquisitions, joint ventures or alliances, we may be unable to fully implement our business strategy, and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected as a result. In addition, our ability to engage in such strategic transactions will be dependent on our ability to raise substantial capital, and we may not be able to raise the funds necessary to implement this strategy on terms satisfactory to us, if at all.

A failure to predict and react to customer demand could adversely affect our business.

If we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our existing products or to react appropriately to changes in demand, we may experience delayed product shipments and customer dissatisfaction. If demand increases significantly from current levels, both we and our suppliers may have difficulty meeting such demand, particularly if such demand increases occur rapidly. Alternatively, we may carry excess inventory if demand for our products decreases below projected levels.

Additionally, we have dedicated significant resources to the development, manufacturing and marketing of new products. Decisions to develop and market new transportation products are typically made without firm indications of customer










acceptance. Moreover, by their nature, new products may require alteration of existing business methods or threaten to displace existing equipment in which our customers may have a substantial capital investment. There can be no assurance that any new products that we develop will gain widespread acceptance in the marketplace or that such products will be able to compete successfully with other new products or services that may be introduced by competitors. Furthermore, we may incur additional warranty or other costs as new products are tested and used by customers.

Failure to accurately predict and react to customer demand could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We may fail to respond adequately or in a timely manner to innovative changes in new technology.

In recent years, the global transportation landscape has been characterized by rapid changes in technology, leading to innovative transportation and logistics concepts that could change the way the railway industry does business. There may be additional innovations impacting the railway industry that we cannot yet foresee. Any failure by us to quickly adapt to and adopt new innovations in products and processes desired by our customers may result in a significant loss of demand for our product and service offerings. In addition, advances in technology may require us to increase investments in order to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments.

A portion of our sales are related to delivering products and services to help our U.S. railroad and transit customers meet the Positive Train Control ("PTC") mandate from the U.S. federal government, which requires the use of on-board locomotive computers and software by the end of 2018.

For the fiscal year endedDecember 31, 2018, we had sales of about$395 millionrelated to train control and signaling, which includes PTC. In 2015, the industry's PTC deadline was extended by three years through December 31, 2018, which also included the ability of railroads to request an additional two years for compliance with the approval of the Department of Transportation if certain parameters are met.  This could change the timing of our revenues and could cause us to reassess the staffing, resources and assets deployed in delivering PTC services.

Our revenues are subject to cyclical variations in the railway and passenger transit markets and changes in government spending.

The railway industry historically has been subject to significant fluctuations due to overall economic conditions, the use of alternate methods of transportation and the levels of government spending on railway projects. In economic downturns, railroads have deferred, and may defer, certain expenditures in order to conserve cash in the short term. Reductions in freight traffic may reduce demand for our replacement products.

The passenger transit railroad industry is also cyclical and is influenced by a variety of factors. New passenger transit car orders vary from year to year and are influenced by a variety of factors, including major replacement programs, the construction or expansion of transit systems by transit authorities and the quality and cost of alternative modes of transportation.  To the extent that future funding for proposed public projects is curtailed or withdrawn altogether as a result of changes in political, economic, fiscal or other conditions beyond our control, such projects may be delayed or cancelled, resulting in a potential loss of business for us, including transit aftermarket and new transit car orders. There can be no assurance that economic conditions will be favorable or that there will not be significant fluctuations adversely affecting the industry as a whole and, as a result, us.

Our backlog is not necessarily indicative of the level of our future revenues.

Our backlog represents future production and estimated potential revenue attributable to firm contracts with, or written orders from, our customers for delivery in various periods.  Instability in the global economy, negative conditions in the global credit markets, volatility in the industries that our products serve, changes in legislative policy, adverse changes in the financial condition of our customers, adverse changes in the availability of raw materials and supplies, or un-remedied contract breaches could possibly lead to contract termination or cancellations of orders in our backlog or request for deferred deliveries of our backlog orders, each of which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations.

A growing portion of our sales may be derived from our international operations, which exposes us to certain risks inherent in doing business on an international level.

For the fiscal year endedDecember 31, 2018, approximately67%of our consolidated net sales were to customers outside of the United States. We intend to continue to expand our international operations, including in emerging markets, in the future. Our global headquarters for the Transit group is located in France, and we conduct other international operations through a variety of wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries and joint ventures, including in Australia, Austria, Brazil, Canada,










China, Czech Republic, France, Germany, India, Italy, Macedonia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Poland, Russia, Spain, South Africa, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. As a result, we are subject to various risks, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on those operations and on our business as a whole, including:

•lack of complete operating control;

•lack of local business experience;

•currency exchange fluctuations and devaluations;

•restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate income or capital;

•the complexities of operating within multiple tax jurisdictions;

•foreign trade restrictions and exchange controls;

•adverse impacts of international trade policies, such as import quotas, capital controls or tariffs;

•difficulty enforcing agreements and intellectual property rights;

•the challenges of complying with complex and changing laws, regulations, and policies of foreign governments;

•the difficulties involved in staffing and managing widespread operations;

•the potential for nationalization of enterprises;

•economic, political and social instability; and

•possible terrorist attacks, conflicts and wars, including those against American interests.

Our exposure to the risks associated with international operations may intensify if our international operations expand in the future.

We may have liability arising from asbestos litigation.

Claims have been filed against us and certain of our affiliates in various jurisdictions across the United States by persons alleging bodily injury as a result of exposure to asbestos-containing products. Most of these claims have been made against our wholly owned subsidiary, Railroad Friction Products Corporation ("RFPC"), and are based on a product sold by RFPC prior to the time that we acquired any interest in RFPC.

Most of these claims, including all of the RFPC claims, are submitted to insurance carriers for defense and indemnity or to non-affiliated companies that have retained the liabilities for the asbestos-containing products at issue. We cannot, however, assure that all these claims will be fully covered by insurance or that the indemnitors or insurers will remain financially viable. Our ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to these claims, as is the case with most other pending litigation, cannot be estimated.

We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws, in various jurisdictions.

We are subject to various laws, rules and regulations administered by authorities in jurisdictions in which we do business, such as the anti-corruption laws of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the French Law n° 2016-1691 (Sapin II) and the U.K. Bribery Act, relating to our business and our employees. We are also subject to other laws and regulations governing our international operations, including regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security, the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, and various non-U.S. government entities, including applicable export control regulations, economic sanctions on countries and persons, customs requirements, currency exchange regulations, and transfer pricing regulations. Despite our policies, procedures and compliance programs, our internal controls and compliance systems may not be able to protect us from prohibited acts willfully committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate such applicable laws and regulations. Any such improper acts could damage our reputation, subject us to civil or criminal judgments, fines or penalties, and could otherwise disrupt our business, and as a result, could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.

In addition, our manufacturing operations are subject to safety, operations, maintenance and mechanical standards, rules and regulations enforced by various federal and state agencies and industry organizations both domestically and internationally. Our business may be adversely impacted by new rules and regulations or changes to existing rules or regulations, which could require additional maintenance or substantial modification or refurbishment of certain of our products or could make such products obsolete or require them to be phased out prior to their useful lives. We are unable to predict what impact these or other regulatory changes may have, if any, on our business or the industry as a whole. We cannot assure that costs incurred to comply with any new standards or regulations will not be material to our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations.

We are subject to a variety of increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations governing discharges to air and water, substances in products, the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous or solid waste materials and the remediation of contamination associated with releases of hazardous substances. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, both operating and capital costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including costs associated with the clean-up and










investigation of some of our current and former properties and offsite disposal locations. We believe our operations currently comply in all material respects with all of the various environmental laws and regulations applicable to our business; however, there can be no assurance that environmental requirements will not change in the future or that we will not incur significant costs to comply with such requirements. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could have significant consequences on our business and results of operations, including the imposition of substantial fines and sanctions for violations, injunctive relief (including requirements that we limit or cease operations at affected facilities), and reputational risk.

In addition, certain of our products are subject to extensive, and increasingly stringent, statutory and regulatory requirements governing,e.g., emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the European Union and other regulatory agencies around the world. We have made, and will continue to make, significant capital and research expenditures relating to compliance with these standards. The successful development and introduction of new and enhanced products in order to comply with new regulatory requirements are subject to other risks, such as delays in product development, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical and manufacturing difficulties. In addition to these risks, the nature and timing of government implementation and enforcement of these standards-particularly in emerging markets-are unpredictable and subject to change.

Future climate change regulation could result in increased operating costs, affect the demand for our products or affect the ability of our critical suppliers to meet our needs.

We have followed the current debate over climate change and the related policy discussion and prospective legislation. We have reviewed the potential challenges for us that climate change policy and legislation may pose. Any such challenges are heavily dependent on the nature and degree of climate change legislation and the extent to which it applies to our industry. At this time, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of climate change and climate change legislation on our operations. Further, when or if these impacts may occur cannot be assessed until scientific analysis and legislative policy are more developed and specific legislative proposals begin to take shape. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of greenhouse gas could require us to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for our products. In addition, the price and availability of certain of the raw materials that we use could vary in the future as a result of environmental laws and regulations affecting our suppliers. An increase in the price of our raw materials or a decline in their availability could adversely affect our operating margins or result in reduced demand for our products.

The occurrence of litigation in which we could be named as a defendant is unpredictable.

From time to time, we are subject to litigation or other commercial disputes and other legal and regulatory proceedings with respect to our business, customers, suppliers, creditors, stockholders, product liability, intellectual property infringement, warranty claims or environmental-related matters. Due to the inherent uncertainties of any litigation, commercial disputes or other legal or regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict their ultimate outcome, including the outcome of any related appeals. We may incur significant expense to defend or otherwise address current or future claims. Any litigation, even a claim without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Although we maintain insurance policies for certain risks, we cannot make assurances that this insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to potential future claims or that these levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or at all.

If we are not able to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, we may be adversely affected.










In addition, we operate in industries in which there are many third-party owners of intellectual property rights. Owners of intellectual property that we need to conduct our business as it evolves may be unwilling to license such intellectual property rights to us on terms we consider reasonable. Third party intellectual property owners may assert infringement claims against us based on their intellectual property portfolios. If we are sued for intellectual property infringement, we may incur significant expenses investigating and defending such claims, even if we prevail.

We face risks relating to cybersecurity attacks that could cause loss of confidential information and other business disruptions.

Our manufacturer’s warranties or product liability may expose us to potentially significant claims.

We warrant the workmanship and materials of many of our products. Accordingly, we are subject to a risk of product liability or warranty claims in the event that the failure of any of our products results in personal injury or death or does not conform to our customers’ specifications. In addition, in recent years, we have introduced a number of new products for which we do not have a history of warranty experience. Although we currently maintain liability insurance coverage, we cannot assure that product liability claims, if made, would not exceed our insurance coverage limits or that insurance will continue to be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. The possibility exists for these types of warranty claims to result in costly product recalls, significant repair costs and damage to our reputation.

Labor shortages and labor disputes may have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability.

We depend on skilled labor in our manufacturing and other businesses. Due to the competitive nature of the labor markets in which we operate, we may not be able to retain, recruit and train the personnel we require, particularly when the economy expands, production rates are high or competition for such skilled labor increases.

We collectively bargain with labor unions at some of our operations throughout the world.  Failure to reach an agreement could result in strikes or other labor protests which could disrupt our operations. Furthermore, non-union employees in certain countries have the right to strike.  If we were to experience a strike or work stoppage, it would be difficult for us to find a sufficient number of employees with the necessary skills to replace these employees. We cannot assure that we will reach any such agreement or that we will not encounter strikes or other types of conflicts with the labor unions of our personnel.

Any such labor shortages or labor disputes could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, could cause us to lose revenues and customers and might have permanent effects on our business.

Equipment failures, interruptions, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems or information technology systems, could adversely affect our business.

All of our facilities, equipment, supply chains, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornados, hurricanes or weather conditions. An interruption in our manufacturing capabilities, supply chains, distribution systems or information technology systems, whether as a result of such catastrophic loss or any other reason, could reduce, prevent or delay our production and shipment of our product offerings, result in defective products or services, damage customer relationships and our reputation and result in legal exposure and large repair or replacement expenses. This could result in the delay or termination of orders, the loss of future sales and a negative impact to our reputation with our customers.

Third-party insurance coverage that we maintain with respect to such matters will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on cost, availability and our decisions regarding risk retention, and may be unavailable or insufficient to










protect us against losses. Any of these risks coming to fruition could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We may be exposed to raw material shortages, supply shortages and fluctuations in raw material, energy and commodity prices.

We purchase energy, steel, aluminum, copper, rubber and rubber-based materials, chemicals, polymers and other key manufacturing inputs from outside sources, and traditionally have not had long-term pricing contracts with our pure raw material suppliers. The costs of these raw materials have been volatile historically and are influenced by factors that are outside our control. If we are unable to pass increases in the costs of our raw materials on to our customers, experience a lag in our ability to pass increases to our customers, or operational efficiencies are not achieved, our operating margins and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.

Our businesses compete globally for key production inputs. In addition, we rely upon third-party suppliers, including certain single-sourced suppliers, for various components for our products. In the event of a shortage or discontinuation of certain raw materials or key inputs, we may experience challenges sourcing certain of our components to meet our production requirements and may not be able to arrange for alternative sources of certain raw materials or key inputs. Any such shortage may materially adversely affect our competitive position versus companies that are able to better or more cheaply source such raw materials or key inputs.

We may incur increased costs due to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates

In the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to increases in interest rates that may adversely affect funding costs associated with variable-rate debt and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs may be denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn and report revenues and vice versa. In addition, a decrease in the value of any of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could reduce our profits from non-U.S. operations and the translated value of the net assets of our non-U.S. operations when reported in U.S. dollars in our consolidated financial statements. We may seek to minimize these risks through the use of interest rate swap contracts and currency hedging agreements.  There can be no assurance that any of these measures will be effective.  Material changes in interest or exchange rates could result in material losses to us.

If we lose our senior management or key personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected.

The success of our business is largely dependent on our senior management team, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other qualified key personnel. It cannot be assured that we will be able to retain all of our current senior management personnel and attract and retain other key personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of senior management and other key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Following the consummation of the acquisition of GE Transportation, we will have substantial operations located in India, and will be subject to regulatory, economic, social and political uncertainties in India.

Although we currently have operations in India, following the consummation of our acquisition of GE Transportation, these operations will be substantially more significant, including a large-scale project involving the construction of a factory in the state of Bihar, which includes a township to house employees. The project also includes construction of two service sheds, in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. Operations in India are inherently risky due to a number of regulatory, economic, social and political uncertainties. For example, in September 2017, several media outlets reported that the Indian government expressed a desire to switch the country's rail system from diesel to electric locomotives, which would threaten to interfere with the completion of the project and curtail the viability of our ongoing operations in India. While no such actions have been taken to date, any change in policy with respect to India’s rail system could have a material adverse effect on the business of the combined company.

In addition, the Indian government has exercised and continues to exercise significant influence over many aspects of the Indian economy. Since 1991, successive Indian governments have generally pursued policies of economic liberalization and financial sector reforms, including by significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant and we cannot assure you that such liberalization policies will continue. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting foreign investments in India could change as well, including exposure to possible expropriation, nationalization or other governmental actions.

Further, protests against privatizations and government corruption scandals, which have occurred in the past, could slow the pace of liberalization and deregulation. A significant change in India’s policy of economic liberalization and deregulation or










any social or political uncertainties could significantly harm business and economic conditions in India generally and our business and prospects.

India’s physical infrastructure is less developed than that of many developed nations. Any congestion or disruption with respect to communication systems or any public facility, including transportation infrastructure, could disrupt our normal business activity. Any deterioration of India’s physical infrastructure would harm the national economy, disrupt the transportation of people, goods and supplies, and add costs to doing business in India. These disruptions could interrupt our business operations and significantly harm our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health.

AtDecember 31, 2018, we had total debt of$3,856.9 million. We entered into a Credit Agreement, as amended, dated June 8, 2018, by and among us, Wabtec Netherlands B.V, the other borrowing subsidiaries party thereto from time to time, PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, and the other parties thereto, which includes (i) a $1.2 billion Revolving Credit Facility, (ii) a $350.0 million Refinancing Term Loan and (iii) a $400.0 million Delayed Draw Term Loan.  Being indebted could have important consequences to us.  For example, our indebtedness could:

•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;

•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;

•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate;

•place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; and

•limit our ability to borrow additional funds.

The indenture for our $500.0 million floating rate senior notes due in 2021, our$744.4 million4.375% senior notes due in 2023, our$499.1 million4.150% senior notes due in 2024, our $750.0 million 3.450% senior notes due in 2026, our $1.25 billion 4.700% senior notes due in 2028 and our Credit Agreement contain various covenants that limit our management’s discretion in the operation of our businesses.

Our Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties by us and our subsidiaries, including customary use of materiality, material adverse effect, and knowledge qualifiers. We and our subsidiaries are also subject to (i) customary affirmative covenants that impose certain reporting obligations on us and our subsidiaries and (ii) customary negative covenants, including limitations on: indebtedness; liens; restricted payments; fundamental changes; business activities; transactions with affiliates; restrictive agreements; changes in fiscal year; and use of proceeds. In addition, we are required to maintain (i) a ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of at least 3.00 to 1.00 over each period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the last day of a fiscal quarter and (ii) a Leverage Ratio, calculated as of the last day of a fiscal quarter for a period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, of 3.25 to 1.00 or less;providedthat, any material acquisition in which the cash consideration paid exceeds $500.0 million, the maximum Leverage Ratio permitted will be (x) 3.75 to 1.00 at the end of the fiscal quarter in which such acquisition is consummated and each of the three fiscal quarters immediately following such fiscal quarter and (y) 3.50 to 1.00 at the end of each of the fourth and fifth full fiscal quarters after the consummation of such acquisition.

The indenture under which our senior notes were issued contain covenants and restrictions which limit among other things, the following: sale and leaseback transactions, sale of assets, change in control, mergers and consolidations and the incurrence of liens.

The integration of our recently completed acquisitions may not result in anticipated improvements in market position or the realization of anticipated operating synergies or may take longer to realize than expected.

Although we believe that our recent acquisitions will improve our market position and realize positive operating results, including operating synergies, operating expense reductions and overhead cost savings, we cannot be assured that these improvements will be obtained or the timing of such improvements. The management and acquisition of businesses involves substantial risks, any of which may result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, including:

•the uncertainty that an acquired business will achieve anticipated operating results;

•significant expenses to integrate;

•diversion of management’s attention;

•departure of key personnel from the acquired business;

•effectively managing entrepreneurial spirit and decision-making;

•integration of different information systems;

•unanticipated costs and exposure to unforeseen liabilities; and

•impairment of assets.














