Item 1.Business.





Masco Corporation manufactures, distributes and installs home
    improvement and building products, with emphasis on brand-name
    consumer products and services holding leadership positions in
    their markets. We are among the largest manufacturers in North
    America of a number of home improvement and building products,
    including faucets, cabinets, architectural coatings and windows,
    and we are one of the largest installers of insulation for the
    new home construction market. We generally provide broad product
    offerings in a variety of styles and price points and distribute
    products through multiple channels, including directly to
    homebuilders and wholesale and retail channels. Approximately
    78 percent of our 2010 sales were generated by our North
    American operations.



We continue to experience a prolonged and substantial downturn
    in the home improvement and new home construction markets. As a
    result, during 2010, we continued to focus on the strategic
    rationalization of our businesses, including business
    consolidations, plant closures, headcount reductions, system
    implementations and other cost savings initiatives. Since 2006,
    across our businesses, we have closed 23 manufacturing
    facilities; also, since 2006, we have closed approximately 100
    locations formerly operated by our Installation and Other
    Services segment. In 2010, we began the combination of our North
    American retail and builder cabinet businesses to
    form Masco Cabinetry. In 2010, we decided to discontinue
    the manufacture ofready-to-assembleand other non-core in-stock assembled cabinet product lines, as
    they were not consistent with Masco Cabinetry’s strategy of
    growth through brand building and innovation. In 2010, we also
    decided to close a cabinet manufacturing facility that had
    previously been idled.



We continue to focus on our cost structure and are driving
    process improvement through the implementation of the Masco
    Business System (“MBS”). The MBS is the integrated
    leadership practices, processes, tools and capabilities that
    enable the effective and consistent execution of our strategies
    and operating plans to maximize our full potential. Through the
    MBS, we are advancing our strategy of growing organic sales
    based on a better understanding of our customer needs and
    investing in new product innovation. We are also focusing on
    enhancing customer experience through improvements in product
    quality. In 2010, we introduced several new products, including
    the ESSENCE
    SERIEStmwood and fiberglass window by Milgard, the
    RED®line of staple guns and nail tackers and the
    ACE®Salt water sanitizing system. We are also continuing to invest
    in several initiatives launched in 2009, including programs
    related to BEHR PREMIUM PLUS
    ULTRA®interior paint, the
    DELTA®TOUCH2O®faucet, retro-fit home energy efficiency services and the sale
    of
    BEHR®and
    KILZ®branded products to professional painters.





We report our financial results in five business segments
    aggregated by similarity in products and services. The following
    table sets forth, for the three years ended December 31,
    2010, the contribution of our segments to net sales and
    operating (loss) profit. Additional financial information
    concerning our operations by segment and by geographic regions,
    as well as general corporate expense, net, as of and for the
    three years ended December 31, 2010, is set forth in
    Note O to our consolidated financial statements included in
    Item 8 of this Report.



(In Millions)Net Sales (1)201020092008Cabinets and Related Products$1,464$1,674$2,276Plumbing Products2,6922,5643,002Installation and Other Services1,1471,2561,861Decorative Architectural Products1,6931,7141,629Other Specialty Products596584716Total$7,592$7,792$9,484





Operating (Loss) Profit (1)(2)(3)(4)201020092008Cabinets and Related Products$(250)$(64)$4Plumbing Products331237110Installation and Other Services(834)(131)(46)Decorative Architectural Products345375299Other Specialty Products19(199)(124)Total$(389)$218$243









(1)Amounts exclude discontinued operations.(2)Operating (loss) profit is before general corporate expense,
    net, charge for defined-benefit plan curtailment, accelerated
    stock compensation expense, and loss on corporate fixed assets,
    net.(3)Operating (loss) profit is before charge regarding the 2009
    Cabinets and Related Products litigation settlement of
    $7 million and the 2008 Installation and Other Services
    litigation settlement of $9 million.(4)Operating (loss) profit includes impairment charges for goodwill
    and other intangible assets as follows: For 2010 –
    Plumbing Products – $1 million; and Installation
    and Other Services – $720 million. For
    2009 – Plumbing Products – $39 million;
    and Other Specialty Products – $223 million. For
    2008 – Cabinets and Related Products –
    $59 million; Plumbing Products –
    $203 million; Installation and Other Services –
    $52 million; and Other Specialty Products –
    $153 million.



Cabinets
    and Related Products



In North America, we manufacture and sell economy, stock and
    semi-custom assembled cabinetry for kitchen, bath, storage, home
    office and home entertainment applications in a broad range of
    styles and price points. In Europe, we manufacture and sell
    assembled andready-to-assemblekitchen, bath, storage, home office and home entertainment
    cabinetry. These products are sold in the United States and in
    Europe under a number of trademarks including
    KRAFTMAID®,

    DISTINCTIONS®,

    TVILUM-SCANBIRKtmand
    WOODGATE®primarily to dealers and home centers, and under the
    MERILLAT®,

    MOOREStmand QUALITY
    CABINETStmbrands primarily to distributors and homebuilders for both the
    home improvement and new home construction markets. Cabinet
    sales are significantly affected by levels of activity in both
    new home construction and retail consumer spending, particularly
    spending for major home improvement products. A significant
    portion of our sales for the home improvement market is made
    through home center retailers. We have also





expanded our product offerings in this segment to include the
    manufacture and sale of countertops in North America.



Over the past several years, the new home construction market
    has declined over 70 percent since the peak; this segment
    has been particularly affected by this downturn, as well as
    builders producing smaller homes with smaller kitchens. This
    segment has also been negatively affected by a downturn in the
    repair and remodel market, particularly by consumers deferring
    expenditures for big-ticket items.



In 2010, we began the combination of our Builder Cabinet Group
    and Retail Cabinet Group to form Masco Cabinetry. We
    believe that the creation of Masco Cabinetry will help us
    establish an even stronger position to lead the cabinet category
    within the repair and remodel and new home construction markets.
    Masco Cabinetry will offer a three brand portfolio of cabinets
    covering several price points addressing consumer preferences.
    Masco Cabinetry will also focus on growing the countertop
    business.



Over the past several years, we have closed several
    manufacturing plants in this segment. In 2010, we decided to
    discontinue the manufacture ofready-to-assembleand other non-core in-stock assembled cabinet product lines, as
    they were not consistent with Masco Cabinetry’s strategy of
    growth through brand building and innovation. This will result
    in the closure of two additional manufacturing facilities in the
    second quarter of 2011. In 2010, we also decided to close a
    manufacturing facility that had been previously idled.



We are currently focused on improving cabinet production
    efficiencies at lower volumes while maintaining our ability to
    respond effectively to increased demand when the home
    improvement and new home construction markets improve. We expect
    that by the end of the second quarter of 2011, we will be able
    to manufacture common cabinetry at most of our plants that
    principally manufacture cabinets for the new home construction
    market in North America.



The cabinet manufacturing industry in the United States and
    Europe is highly competitive, with several large competitors and
    numerous local and regional competitors. In addition to price,
    we believe that competition in this industry is based largely on
    product quality, responsiveness to customer needs, product
    features and selection. Our significant North American
    competitors include American Woodmark Corporation and Fortune
    Brands, Inc.



Plumbing
    Products



Our Plumbing Products segment sells a wide variety of faucet and
    showering devices that are manufactured by or for us. Our
    plumbing products are sold in North America and Europe under
    various brand names including
    DELTA®,

    PEERLESS®,

    HANSGROHE®,

    AXOR®,

    BRIZO®,

    BRASSTECH®,

    BRISTANtm,

    GINGER®,

    NEWPORT
    BRASS®,

    ALSONS®,

    SIRRUStmand PLUMB
    SHOP®.

    Our products include single-handle and double-handle faucets,
    showerheads, handheld showers and valves, which are sold to
    major retail accounts and to wholesalers and distributors who,
    in turn, sell our products to plumbers, building contractors,
    remodelers, smaller retailers and others.



We believe that our plumbing products are among the leaders in
    sales in the North American and European markets, with American
    Standard, Kohler, Moen and Price Pfister as major brand
    competitors. We also have several European competitors,
    primarily in Germany, including Friedrich Grohe. We face
    significant competition from private label products (including
    house brands sold by certain of our customers). Many of the
    faucet and showering products with which our products compete
    are manufactured in Asia. The businesses in our Plumbing
    Products segment source products from Asia and manufacture
    products in the United States, Europe and Asia.



Other plumbing products manufactured and sold by us include
    products branded as AQUA
    GLASS®,

    MIROLIN®and AMERICAN SHOWER &
    BATHtmacrylic and gelcoat tub and shower systems, bath and shower
    enclosure units, shower trays and laundry tubs, which are sold
    primarily to wholesale plumbing distributors and home center
    retailers for the North American home improvement and new home
    construction markets. Our spas are manufactured and sold under
    HOT
    SPRING®,

    CALDERA®and other trademarks directly to independent dealers. Major
    competitors include Kohler, Lasco, Maax and Jacuzzi. We sell





HÜPPE®shower enclosures through wholesale channels primarily in
    western Europe.
    HERITAGEtmceramic and acrylic bath fixtures and faucets are principally
    sold in the United Kingdom directly to selected retailers.



Also included in the Plumbing Products segment are brass and
    copper plumbing system components and other plumbing
    specialties, which are sold to plumbing, heating and hardware
    wholesalers and to home center retailers, hardware stores,
    building supply outlets and other mass merchandisers. These
    products are marketed in North America for the wholesale trade
    under the
    BRASSCRAFT®and BRASSTECH trademarks and for the “do-it-yourself”
    market under the MASTER
    PLUMBER®and PLUMB SHOP trademarks and are also sold under private label.



In addition to price, we believe that competition in our
    Plumbing Products markets is based largely on brand reputation,
    product quality, product innovation and features, and breadth of
    product offering.



A substantial portion of our plumbing products are made from
    brass, the major components of which are copper and zinc. We
    have encountered volatility in the price of brass. We have
    implemented a hedging strategy to attempt to minimize the impact
    of commodity price volatility. Legislation enacted in
    California, Vermont and Maryland mandates new standards for
    acceptable lead content in plumbing products sold in those
    states. Federal legislation mandating a national standard for
    lead content in plumbing products will become effective in
    January 2014. Faucet and water supply valve manufacturers,
    including our plumbing product companies, will be required to
    obtain adequate supplies of lead-free brass or suitable
    alternative materials for continued production of faucets and
    certain of our plumbing products.



In 2008, our Delta Faucet business introduced faucets
    incorporating its
    TOUCH2O
    technology and, in the future, Delta Faucet plans to expand the
    use of its capacitance sensing
    PROXIMITYtmtechnology in its product offerings. Also in 2008, our Delta
    Faucet business introduced a new water delivery system known as
    DIAMONDtmSeal Technology. DIAMOND Seal Technology reduces the number of
    potential leak points in a faucet, simplifies installation and
    satisfies the legislation described above regulating the
    acceptable lead content in plumbing products. Delta Faucet has
    continued to incorporate DIAMOND Seal Technology into most of
    its faucets. The success of DIAMOND Seal Technology depends on
    many factors, including the performance of the technology and
    the market’s acceptance of the technology as well as Delta
    Faucet’s ability to successfully integrate the technology
    into its most popular faucets.



Installation
    and Other Services





Within this segment, we have launched several new initiatives
    related to improved energy efficiency, including energy audit
    and repair services and retrofit installation services delivered
    directly to homeowners as well as through retailers and dealer
    outlets.



In addition to price, we believe that competition in this
    industry is based largely on customer service and the quality of
    installation service. We believe that we are the largest
    national provider of installed insulation in





the new home construction industry in the United States. Our
    competitors include several regional contractors, as well as
    numerous local contractors and lumber yards. We believe that our
    financial resources are substantial compared to regional and
    local contractors.



Decorative
    Architectural Products



We produce architectural coatings including paints, primers,
    specialty paint products, stains and waterproofing products. The
    products are sold in the United States, Canada, China, Mexico
    and South America under the brand names
    BEHR®,

    KILZ®and
    EXPRESSIONS®to “do-it-yourself” and professional customers through
    home centers, paint stores and other retailers. Net sales of
    architectural coatings comprised approximately 20 percent,
    20 percent and 15 percent of our consolidated net
    sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Competitors in the architectural coatings market
    include large national and international brands such as Benjamin
    Moore, Glidden, Olympic, Sherwin-Williams, Valspar and Zinsser,
    as well as many regional and other national brands. In addition
    to price, we believe that competition in this industry is based
    largely on product quality, technology and product innovation,
    customer service and brand reputation.



Our BEHR products are sold through The Home Depot, the
    segment’s and our largest customer. The paint departments
    at The Home Depot stores include the Behr color center and
    computer kiosk with the COLOR SMART BY
    BEHR®computerized color-matching system that enables consumers to
    select and coordinate their paint-color selection. In 2009,
    Behr’s product offering was enhanced by the introduction of
    the BEHR PREMIUM PLUS ULTRA interior paint, which is a
    high-quality, low volatile organic compound, interior paint and
    primer in one. The loss of this segment’s sales to The Home
    Depot would have a material adverse effect on this
    segment’s business and on our consolidated business as a
    whole.



Titanium dioxide is a major ingredient in the manufacture of
    paint. Shortages of supply and cost increases for titanium
    dioxide in the past have resulted from surges in global demand
    and from production capacity limitations. Petroleum products are
    also used in the manufacture of architectural coatings.
    Significant increases in the cost of crude oil and natural gas
    lead to higher raw material costs (e.g., for resins, solvents
    and packaging, as well as titanium dioxide), which can adversely
    affect the segment’s results of operations.



Our Decorative Architectural Products segment also includes
    LIBERTY®branded cabinet, door, window and other hardware, which is
    manufactured for us and sold to home centers, other retailers,
    original equipment manufacturers and wholesale markets. Key
    competitors in North America include Amerock, Top Knobs, Direct
    Import, Hickory Hardware and Stanley Black & Decker.
    Decorative bath hardware and shower accessories are sold under
    the brand names FRANKLIN
    BRASS®and DECOR
    BATHWARE®to distributors, home centers and other retailers. Competitors
    include Moen and GATCO.



Other
    Specialty Products



We manufacture and sell vinyl, fiberglass and aluminum windows
    and patio doors under the
    MILGARD®brand name to the home improvement and new home construction
    markets, principally in the western United States. MILGARD
    products are sold primarily through dealers and, to a lesser
    extent, directly to production homebuilders and through lumber
    yards and home centers. In late 2010, Milgard introduced the
    ESSENCE SERIES of wood and fiberglass windows and doors,
    including the ESSENCE SERIES Wood Window, a window that
    combines a wood interior with a fiberglass exterior. This
    segment’s competitors in North America include national
    brands, such as Jeld-Wen, Simonton, Pella and Andersen, and
    numerous regional brands. In the United Kingdom, we manufacture
    and sell windows, related products and components under several
    brand names including
    GRIFFINtm,

    CAMBRIANtm,

    PREMIERtmand
    DURAFLEXtm.

    Sales are primarily through dealers and wholesalers to the
    repair and remodeling markets, although our Duraflex business is
    also a supplier to other window fabricators. United Kingdom
    competitors include many small and mid-sized firms and a few
    large, vertically integrated competitors. In addition to price,
    we believe that competition in this industry is based largely on
    customer service and product quality.





We manufacture and sell a complete line of manual and electric
    staple gun tackers, staples and other fastening tools under the
    brand names
    ARROW®and
    POWERSHOT®.

    We sell these products through various distribution channels
    including home centers and other retailers and wholesalers. Our
    principal North American competitor in this product line is
    Stanley Black & Decker. In 2010, Arrow introduced a
    new product line of staple guns and nail tackers, which are
    Reliable, Ergonomic and Durable
    (RED®).



Additional
    Information





•We hold United States and foreign patents, patent applications,
    licenses, trademarks, trade names, trade secrets and proprietary
    manufacturing processes. As a manufacturer and distributor of
    brand name products, we view our trademarks and other
    intellectual property rights as important, but do not believe
    that there is any reasonable likelihood of a loss of such rights
    that would have a material adverse effect on our present
    business as a whole.



•All of our operating segments, except the Plumbing Products
    segment, normally experience stronger sales during the second
    and third calendar quarters, corresponding with the peak season
    for new home construction and remodeling.



•We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the
    protection of the environment. In addition to our
    responsibilities for environmental remediation, our businesses
    are subject to other requirements regarding protection of the
    environment and worker health and safety. Our businesses are
    subject to requirements relating to the emission of volatile
    organic compounds which may impact our sourcing of
    particleboard, require that we install special equipment in
    manufacturing facilities or that we reformulate paint products.
    As described above, our Plumbing Products segment is subject to
    restrictions on lead content in some of its products. Compliance
    with such laws and regulations could significantly affect
    product performance as well as our production costs. We monitor
    applicable laws and regulations relating to the protection of
    the environment, climate disruption and worker health and
    safety, and incur ongoing expense relating to compliance. We do
    not expect compliance with the federal, state and local
    regulations relating to the discharge of materials into the
    environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the
    environment and worker health and safety, will result in
    material capital expenditures or have a material adverse effect
    on our earnings or competitive position.



•We do not consider backlog orders to be material.



•At December 31, 2010, we employed approximately
    32,500 people. Satisfactory relations have generally
    prevailed between us and our employees.



Available
    Information



Our website is www.masco.com. Our periodic reports and all
    amendments to those reports required to be filed or furnished
    pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge
    through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after
    those reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the
    Securities and Exchange Commission. This Report is being posted
    on our website concurrently with its filing with the Securities
    and Exchange Commission. Material contained on our website is
    not incorporated by reference into this Report.

