Item 1.Business.

Masco Corporation
manufactures, distributes and installs home improvement and building products, with an emphasis on brand-name consumer products and services holding leadership positions. We are among the largest manufacturers in North America of a number of home
improvement and building products, including faucets, cabinets, architectural coatings and windows, and we are one of the largest installers of insulation for new home construction. We provide broad product offerings in a variety of styles and price
points and distribute products through multiple channels, including directly to homebuilders and wholesale and retail channels. Approximately 78 percent of our 2012 sales were generated by our North American operations.

In 2012, new home construction increased approximately 25 percent; however, with the significant decline in new home construction over the past
several years, the demand for new homes remains below the historic average. Consumer spending for big ticket home improvements continued to be depressed during the year. Additionally, we experienced a negative mix shift for certain products, with
consumers demanding more value-priced products. All of these factors continue to impact our results.

Throughout
2012, we have pursued four strategic initiatives to improve our performance. First, we are extending and expanding our product leadership positions by leveraging our brands and introducing innovative new and improved products. We are gaining share
in our North American plumbing business with our DELTA®, PEERLESS®, and BRIZO®brands, and internationally
with our Hansgrohe®products. We continued to extend the Delta and Peerless brands to additional product categories,
introducing toilets in 2012, and we also pursued international opportunities for these brands. In 2012, Masco Contractor Services achieved share gains in insulation for new home construction, retrofit and commercial channels. Behr®paint experienced growth in the Pro®paint segment, and is pursuing international opportunities. Milgard, our manufacturer of windows in the western U.S., and our U.K. Window Group continue to gain share
in their markets.

Our second strategic initiative is to improve our performance by reducing costs, primarily through supply chain
savings, and implementing lean principles and production process improvements. Over the last several years, we have closed 33 facilities and reduced headcount by over 31,000, enabling us to achieve significant fixed cost reductions. We have improved
our global supply chain by leveraging our size to realize purchasing cost savings, simplifying the purchasing process, and coordinating logistical operations. At several of our businesses, we have implemented new ERP systems to improve operations,
including customer service and inventory management, and to reduce costs.

Our third strategic initiative is to improve our
under-performing businesses, particularly our Cabinet and Installation businesses, which were impacted by the downturn in new home construction and the reduced consumer spending for big ticket home improvement items. While our Cabinet businesses,
including our European operations, continue to experience challenges, in 2012 this segment significantly reduced its operating losses compared to 2011. In our Installation segment, we experienced significant operating profit improvement in 2012,
generated by incremental new home construction activity, cost reductions from lean processes, leveraging of our new ERP system, and supply chain savings.

Our fourth strategic initiative is strengthening our balance sheet through net debt reduction and maintaining strong liquidity. This year, we reduced our debt by approximately $400 million through the retirement of
notes due in July. We had approximately $1.4 billion of cash at December 31, 2012.

We believe that we have managed our businesses
successfully through the economic crisis and subsequent recession of recent years. We believe that our focus on our strategic initiatives of expanding our market leadership positions, reducing costs, improving our underperforming businesses







and strengthening our balance sheet will improve our performance and position us well as the economy recovers.

Our Business Segments

We report our financial results in five business segments
aggregated by similarity in products and services. The following table sets forth the contribution of our segments to net sales and operating profit (loss) for the three years ended December 31, 2012. Additional financial information concerning
our operations by segment and by geographic regions, as well as general corporate expense, net, as of and for the three years ended December 31, 2012, is set forth in Note O to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8
of this Report.



(In Millions)Net Sales (1)201220112010Cabinets and Related Products$1,189$1,231$1,464Plumbing Products2,9552,9132,692Installation and Other Services1,2091,0771,041Decorative Architectural Products1,8181,6701,693Other Specialty Products574576596Total$7,745$7,467$7,486Operating Profit (Loss) (1)(2)(3)(4)201220112010Cabinets and Related Products$(120)$(206)$(250)Plumbing Products307322331Installation and Other Services(19)(79)(798)Decorative Architectural Products329196345Other Specialty Products(31)(401)19Total$466$(168)$(353)



(1)Amounts exclude discontinued operations.



(2)Operating profit (loss) is before general corporate expense, net, and gain on sale of fixed assets, net.



(3)Operating profit (loss) is before net charges of $77 million regarding the 2012 litigation settlement, primarily in the Installation and Other Services segment and $9 million
regarding the 2011 litigation settlements in the Cabinets and Related Products and the Other Specialty Products segments.



(4)Operating profit (loss) includes impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets as follows: For 2012 – Other Specialty Products – $42 million. For 2011
– Cabinets and Related Products – $44 million; Plumbing Products – $1 million; Decorative Architectural Products – $75 million; and Other Specialty Products – $374 million. For 2010 – Plumbing Products – $1
million; and Installation and Other Services – $697 million.

All of our operating segments, except the Plumbing
Products segment, normally experience stronger sales during the second and third calendar quarters, corresponding with the peak season for new home construction and repair and remodel activity.

Cabinets and Related Products

In
North America, we manufacture and sell value-priced, stock and semi-custom assembled cabinetry for kitchen, bath, storage, home office and home entertainment applications in a broad range







of styles and price points to address consumer preferences. We have also expanded our product offerings in this segment to include the manufacture and sale of kitchen countertops, as well as an
integrated bathroom vanity and countertop solution. In Europe, we manufacture and sell assembled and ready-to-assemble kitchen, bath, storage, home office and home entertainment cabinetry. These products are sold in the United States and in Europe
under a number of trademarks. Our KRAFTMAID®and TVILUM®brands are sold primarily to dealers, home centers and mass merchants and our MERILLAT®, MOORES™ and QUALITY CABINETS™ brands are sold primarily to distributors and homebuilders for both home improvement and new home construction. Cabinet sales
are significantly affected by levels of activity in both new home construction and retail consumer spending, particularly spending for major kitchen and bathroom renovation projects. A significant portion of our sales for home improvement are made
through home center retailers.

New home construction has declined significantly over the past several years, and our Cabinet segment has
been particularly affected by this downturn. This segment has also been negatively affected by a downturn in repair and remodel, particularly by consumers who continue to defer expenditures for big-ticket items and, when purchasing, are demanding
more value-priced products. Although home construction is improving and is expected to continue to improve, the demand for new homes remains below the historic average. The size of new homes has decreased and demand has increased for multi-family
housing units, which are smaller than single-family housing units and require fewer cabinets for the kitchen and bathrooms. Further, consumer spending for big ticket home improvements continues to be depressed. In response, we have implemented a
strategy to increase our sales in this segment through brand building, new product introductions and product innovation. We have also reviewed our cost structure, which resulted in the closure of several manufacturing plants in this segment and
exited our North American ready-to-assemble cabinet product line. Additionally, we continue to focus on improving cabinet production efficiencies at lower volumes.

The cabinet manufacturing industry in the United States and Europe is highly competitive, with several large competitors and numerous local and regional competitors. In recent years, we have experienced significant
competition in the form of promotional pricing, discounts, and new product offerings by our competitors, which have impacted the segment’s results of operations. We are also experiencing significant competition from foreign manufacturers,
particularly in our European cabinet operations. In addition to price, we believe that competition in this industry is based largely on product quality, responsiveness to customer needs, product features and selection. Our North American competitors
include American Woodmark Corporation and Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc.

Plumbing Products

The businesses in our Plumbing Products segment sell a wide variety of faucet and showering devices that are manufactured by or
for us. The majority of our plumbing products are sold in North America and Europe under the brand names DELTA®, PEERLESS®,
HANSGROHE®, AXOR®, BRIZO®, BRASSTECH®, BRISTAN™, GINGER®, NEWPORT BRASS®, ALSONS®and PLUMB
SHOP®. Our products include single-handle and double-handle faucets, showerheads, handheld showers and valves, and, in
2012, we introduced toilets. These products are sold to major retail accounts and to wholesalers and distributors that, in turn, sell our products to plumbers, building contractors, remodelers, smaller retailers and others.

Other plumbing products manufactured and sold by us include products branded as AQUA GLASS®,
MIROLIN®and AMERICAN SHOWER & BATH™ such brands use innovex acrylic and gelcoat for tub and shower systems,
bath and shower enclosure units, shower trays and laundry tubs, which are sold primarily to wholesale plumbing distributors and home center retailers for home improvement and new home construction in North America. Our spas are manufactured and sold
under HOT SPRING®, CALDERA®and other trademarks directly to independent dealers. Major competitors include Kohler, Aquatic, Maax and Jacuzzi. We sell HÜPPE®shower enclosures through







wholesale channels primarily in Western Europe. HERITAGE™ ceramic and acrylic bath fixtures and faucets are principally sold in the United Kingdom directly to selected retailers.

Also included in the Plumbing Products segment are brass and copper plumbing system components and other plumbing specialties,
which are sold to plumbing, heating and hardware wholesalers and to home center retailers, hardware stores, building supply outlets and other mass merchandisers. These products are marketed in North America for the wholesale trade under the
BRASSCRAFT®and BRASSTECH®trademarks and for the “do-it-yourself” consumers under the BRASSCRAFT MASTER PLUMBER®and PLUMB SHOP®trademarks, and are
also sold under private label.

We believe that our plumbing products are among the leaders in sales in North America and Europe, with
American Standard, Kohler, Moen and Pfister as major brand competitors. We also have several European competitors, primarily in Germany, including Friedrich Grohe. We face significant competition from private label products (including house brands
sold by certain of our customers). Many of the faucet and showering products with which our products compete are manufactured by foreign manufacturers that are putting downward pressures on price, particularly in the emerging markets we are
entering. The businesses in our Plumbing Products segment source products from Asia and manufacture products in the United States, Europe and Asia. Certain businesses in our Plumbing Product segment are also experiencing a shift in the mix of
products we sell toward more value-priced or opening price point products, which impacts our profitability. In addition to price, we believe that competition for our plumbing products is based largely on brand reputation, product quality, product
innovation and features, and breadth of product offering.

A substantial portion of our plumbing products contain brass, the major
components of which are copper and zinc. We have encountered price volatility for brass, brass components and any components containing copper and zinc; therefore, we have implemented a hedging strategy to minimize the impact of this volatility.
Legislation enacted in California, Vermont and Maryland mandates new standards for acceptable lead content in plumbing products sold in those states. Federal legislation mandating a national standard for lead content in plumbing products will become
effective in January 2014. Faucet and water supply valve manufacturers, including our plumbing product companies, will be required to obtain adequate supplies of lead-free brass or suitable alternative materials for continued production of faucets
and certain of our plumbing products. Over the last several years, our Delta Faucet business introduced the DIAMOND™ SEAL TECHNOLOGY, which reduces the number of potential leak points in a faucet, simplifies installation and satisfies
legislation regarding the acceptable lead content in plumbing products.

Installation and Other Services

Our Installation and Other Services segment sells installed building products and distributes building products primarily to the new home
construction market, and, to a lesser extent, the retrofit and commercial construction markets, throughout the United States. In addition to insulation, we sell installed gutters, after-paint products, garage doors and fireplaces. The installation
and distribution of insulation comprised approximately eleven percent, nine percent and nine percent of our consolidated net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Installed building products are supplied primarily to custom and production
homebuilders by our network of branches located across the United States. Our distributed products include insulation, insulation accessories, roofing and gutters, among others. Distributed products are sold primarily to contractors and dealers
(including lumber yards) from distribution centers in various parts of the United States.

There has been a significant decrease in
demand in the new home construction industry over the past several years. Additionally, the size of new homes has decreased, and demand has increased for multi-family housing units such as apartments and condominiums, which are often smaller than
single-family housing units. The effect of these trends has resulted in the use of less insulation. In response,







we have expanded our ability to serve the residential retrofit and light commercial markets. Within the Installation and Other Services segment, we have several initiatives related to improved
residential energy efficiency, including retrofit installation services (primarily insulation) delivered directly to homeowners, as well as through retailers and dealer outlets.

In addition to price, we believe that competition in this industry is based largely on customer service and the quality of installation service. We
believe that we are the largest national provider of installed insulation in the new home construction industry in the United States. Our competitors include several regional contractors, as well as numerous local contractors and lumber yards. We
believe that our capabilities and financial resources are substantial compared to regional and local contractors.

Decorative Architectural
Products

We produce architectural coatings including paints, primers, specialty paint products, stains and
waterproofing products. The products are sold in the United States, Canada, China, Mexico and South America under the brand names
BEHR®and
KILZ®to “do-it-yourself” and professional customers through home centers, paint stores and other retailers. Net
sales of architectural coatings comprised approximately 20 percent of our consolidated net sales in each of 2012, 2011 and 2010. Competitors in the architectural coatings market include large national and international brands such as Benjamin Moore,
Glidden, Olympic, Sherwin-Williams, Valspar and Zinsser, as well as many regional and other national brands. In addition to price, we believe that competition in this industry is based largely on product quality, technology and product innovation,
customer service and brand reputation. In 2012, we enhanced our paint formulations with a zero-VOC PREMIUM PLUS®paint and
greater stain-blocking properties in our PREMIUM PLUS ULTRA®paint.

Our BEHR products are sold through The Home Depot, this segment’s and our largest customer. The loss of this segment’s sales to The Home
Depot would have a material adverse effect on this segment’s business and on our consolidated business as a whole.

Titanium dioxide
is a major ingredient in the manufacture of paint. The industry has experienced cost increases for titanium dioxide as a result of surges in global demand and production capacity limitations, which has impacted our operating results in this segment.
Petroleum products are also used in the manufacture of architectural coatings. Significant increases in the cost of crude oil and natural gas lead to higher raw material costs (e.g., for resins, solvents and packaging, as well as titanium dioxide),
which can adversely affect the segment’s results of operations.

Our Decorative Architectural Products segment
also includes LIBERTY®and BRAINERD®branded cabinet, door, window and other hardware, which is manufactured for us and sold to home centers, other retailers, original equipment manufacturers and
wholesale markets. Key competitors in North America include Amerock, Top Knobs and house brands. Decorative bath hardware and shower accessories are sold under the brand names DELTA®, FRANKLIN BRASS®and DECOR BATHWARE®to distributors, home centers and other retailers. Competitors include Moen, Gatco and house brands sold by certain of our
customers.

Other Specialty Products

We manufacture and sell vinyl, fiberglass and aluminum windows and patio doors, as well as the ESSENCE SERIES®windows and doors, which combines a wood interior with a fiberglass exterior, under the MILGARD®brand name for home improvements and new home construction, principally in the western United States. MILGARD products are sold primarily through dealers and, to a
lesser extent, directly to production and custom homebuilders and through lumber yards and home centers. This segment’s competitors in North America include national brands, such as Jeld-Wen, Marvin, Pella and Andersen, and numerous regional
brands.

In the United Kingdom, we manufacture and sell windows, related products and components under several brand names including
GRIFFIN™, CAMBRIAN™, PREMIER™ and DURAFLEX™.







Sales are primarily through dealers and wholesalers to the repair and remodeling markets, although our DURAFLEX products are also sold to other window fabricators. United Kingdom competitors
include many small and mid-sized firms and a few large, vertically integrated competitors. In addition to price, we believe that competition in this industry is based largely on customer service and product quality.

We manufacture and sell a complete line of manual and electric staple gun tackers, staples and other fastening tools under the
brand names ARROW®and POWERSHOT®. We sell these products through various distribution channels including home centers and other retailers and wholesalers. Our principal North American competitor in
this product line is Stanley Black & Decker.

Additional Information

We hold U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications, licenses, trademarks, trade names, trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing processes. As
a manufacturer and distributor of brand name products, we view our trademarks and other intellectual property rights as important, but do not believe that there is any reasonable likelihood of a loss of such rights that would have a material adverse
effect on our present business as a whole.

We are subject to U.S. and foreign government regulations, particularly those pertaining to
health and safety (including protection of employees and consumers), climate disruption and environmental issues. In addition to our responsibilities for environmental remediation, our businesses are subject to other requirements regarding
protection of the environment and worker health and safety. Our businesses are subject to requirements relating to the emission of volatile organic compounds which may impact our sourcing of particleboard, require that we install special equipment
in manufacturing facilities or that we reformulate paint products. As described above, our Plumbing Products segment is subject to restrictions on lead content in some of its products. Compliance with such laws and regulations could significantly
affect product performance as well as our production costs. We monitor applicable laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, climate disruption and worker health and safety, and incur ongoing expense relating to compliance.
We do not expect compliance with the federal, state and local regulations relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment and worker health and safety, will result in material
capital expenditures or have a material adverse effect on our earnings or competitive position.

We do not consider backlog orders to be
material in any of our segments.

At December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 30,000 people. We have generally experienced
satisfactory relations with our employees.

Available Information

Our website is www.masco.com. Our periodic reports and all amendments to those reports required to be filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. This Report is being posted on our website concurrently with its filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Material contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report.



