Item 1. Business.

Masco Corporation manufactures,
distributes and installs home improvement and building products, with emphasis on brand-name consumer products and services holding leadership positions in their markets. We are among the largest manufacturers in North America of a number of home
improvement and building products, including faucets, cabinets, architectural coatings and windows, and we are one of the largest installers of insulation for the new home construction market. We provide broad product offerings in a variety of
styles and price points and distribute products through multiple channels, including directly to homebuilders and wholesale and retail channels. Approximately 76 percent of our 2011 sales were generated by our North American operations.

In 2011, we experienced increased commodity costs while the economy continued to experience declining home values, lack of job creation
and depressed consumer confidence, hindering a housing recovery, all of which impacted our performance. Notwithstanding this challenging environment, we continued to take actions designed to increase our market share in our major product categories,
strengthen our brands, invest in product innovation and introduce new products. We have done this while continuing to rationalize our business operations and manage our cost structure. We believe our strategy has improved our business execution and
has positioned us well for a recovery in our markets.

We have taken many actions to increase our market share and
strengthen our brands and businesses. We are gaining share in the U.S. with our DELTA®, PEERLESS®,
BRIZO®, HOT SPRING®and CALDERA®brands. We are also
extending the Delta and Peerless brands to additional product categories, including tub and shower bathing systems and bath hardware, and are pursuing international opportunities for these brands. In 2011, we achieved year-over-year overall share
gains in our Installation and Other Services segment and we also completed the implementation of a new Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system in this segment. Behr increased its brand share across all DIY architectural coatings
categories, and is also pursuing international opportunities. Milgard Manufacturing continued to gain share in the western United States, and the U.K. Window Group is gaining share in its markets in the United Kingdom.

We are focused on enhancing customer experience through new product development and product innovation. In 2011, Delta Faucet
Company launched its innovative TOUCH2O®technology for lavatory faucets. Behr introduced a new low-VOC formula in its core PREMIUM PLUS®paint line and also launched the KILZ®PRO-X™ coatings line program at The Home Depot. Masco Cabinetry introduced a countertop product for the kitchen and an integrated bathroom vanity countertop solution. Arrow Fastener has introduced several new products to enhance their core
product line including the T50 ELITE™ tool line, which is gaining share with domestic and international retailers.

We believe our commitment to developing innovative products and building our brands is demonstrated by the recognition we received in 2011. KraftMaid cabinetry ranked “Highest in Customer Satisfaction with
Cabinets” in the J.D. Power and Associates 2011 U.S. Kitchen Cabinet Satisfaction StudySM. Delta Faucet was named WaterSense®Partner of the Year by the Environmental
Protection Agency in recognition of its ongoing commitment to promoting advancements in water efficiency. Hansgrohe again received the prestigious Product Design Award from the Federal Republic of Germany. Behr was recognized by The Home Depot as
“2011 Partner of the Year Department 24 – Paint” in the U.S. and in Canada, and Behr products again achieved #1 rankings in a leading consumer study. The Kilz brand ranked highest among paint brands for the second year in a row based
on a 2011 Harris poll. MILGARD®ESSENCE SERIES®windows received the 2011 Crystal Achievement Award for Most Innovative New Window for a Large Manufacturer fromWindow & Door, a trade magazine. The
MILGARD®TUSCANY®SERIES windows and doors with the
SMARTTOUCH®technology was named winner of the 2011 Smart Choice Award by the 50+ Housing Council, a group







focused on the needs of the aging population in Southern California.Builder, a leading magazine for the residential construction industry, named Milgard Windows and Doors as the Brand
Leader in Overall Vinyl Quality in its 2012 Brand Use Study, marking the seventh time Milgard products have been recognized. Lastly, the HOT SPRING ARIA®spa received the “Best Buy” distinction from Consumers Digest.

Since the economic downturn, we have taken significant actions designed to rationalize our business operations, manage our cost structure and improve our business processes. We have successfully managed our cash
position, resulting in approximately $1.7 billion of cash at December 31, 2011. Over the last several years, we have closed 28 facilities and reduced headcount by over 30,000, enabling us to achieve a significant reduction in our fixed costs.
We have improved our global supply chain by leveraging our size to realize purchasing cost savings, simplify the purchasing process, and coordinate logistical operations. At several of our businesses, we have implemented new ERP systems to improve
the operations of our businesses, including customer service and inventory management and reduce costs. We are also implementing lean principles and production process studies to reduce production costs and improve efficiencies. Our Retail and
Builder Cabinet businesses have been integrated, achieving profit and process improvements as a result of integration savings, lean and sourcing activities and spending reductions.

In 2011, we took additional actions designed to manage our costs, including additional plant closures and divestitures, further
reducing our headcount. We also commenced the integration of our WELLHOME®business into our Masco Contractor Services
(“MCS”) group to enhance MCS’s sales and marketing capability and further expand our retrofit insulation business. Finally, we completed the common architecture program for the MERILLAT®and QUALITY CABINETSTMbrands at Masco Cabinetry and completed the exit of our ready-to-assemble product line in North America.

We believe that our actions have managed our businesses successfully through the economic crisis and subsequent recession of recent years. We also believe that our actions have strengthened our businesses and that
we are ready to meet the economic challenges that will come with growth out of the recession in all of our markets.

Our Business Segments

We report our financial results in five business segments aggregated by similarity in products and services. The following table
sets forth the contribution of our segments to net sales and operating (loss) profit for the three years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Additional financial information concerning our operations by segment and by geographic regions, as
well as general corporate expense, net, as of and for the three years ended December 31, 2011, is set forth in Note O to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report.



(In Millions)Net Sales(1)201120102009Cabinets and Related Products$1,231$1,464$1,674Plumbing Products2,9132,6922,564Installation and Other Services1,0771,0411,121Decorative Architectural Products1,6701,6931,714Other Specialty Products576596584Total$7,467$7,486$7,657







Operating (Loss) Profit (1)(2)(3)(4)201120102009Cabinets and Related Products$(206)$(250)$(64)Plumbing Products322331237Installation and Other Services(79)(798)(116)Decorative Architectural Products196345375Other Specialty Products(401)19(199)Total$(168)$(353)$233



(1)Amounts exclude discontinued operations.



(2)Operating (loss) profit is before general corporate expense, net, charge for defined-benefit plan curtailment, accelerated stock compensation expense, and loss on corporate fixed
assets, net.



(3)Operating (loss) profit is before charges of $9 million regarding the 2011 litigation settlements in the Cabinets and Related Products and the Other Specialty Products segments.
Operating (loss) profit is before a charge of $7 million regarding the 2009 litigation settlement in the Cabinets and Related Products segment.



(4)Operating (loss) profit includes impairment charges for goodwill and other intangible assets as follows: For 2011 – Cabinets and Related Products – $44 million;
Plumbing Products – $1 million; Decorative Architectural Products – $75 million; and Other Specialty Products – $374 million. For 2010 – Plumbing Products – $1 million; and Installation and Other Services – $697
million. For 2009 – Plumbing Products – $39 million; and Other Specialty Products – $223 million.

All of
our operating segments, except the Plumbing Products segment, normally experience stronger sales during the second and third calendar quarters, corresponding with the peak season for new home construction and repair and remodel activity.

Cabinets and Related Products

In North America, we manufacture and sell value-priced, stock and semi-custom assembled cabinetry for kitchen, bath, storage, home office and home entertainment applications in a broad range of styles and price
points to address consumer preferences. We have also expanded our product offerings in this segment to include the manufacture and sale of kitchen countertops, as well as an integrated bathroom vanity and countertop solution. In Europe, we
manufacture and sell assembled and ready-to-assemble kitchen, bath, storage, home office and home entertainment cabinetry. These products are sold in the United States and in Europe under a number of trademarks including KRAFTMAID®,
TVILUM®and WOODGATE®primarily to dealers and home centers, and under the MERILLAT®, MOORES™ and QUALITY CABINETS™ brands primarily to distributors and homebuilders for both the home improvement and new home construction markets. Cabinet
sales are significantly affected by levels of activity in both new home construction and retail consumer spending, particularly spending for major kitchen and bathroom renovation projects. A significant portion of our sales for the home improvement
market are made through home center retailers.

New home construction has declined over 70 percent during the last
six years, and this segment has been particularly affected by this downturn. This segment has also been negatively affected by a downturn in the repair and remodel market, particularly by consumers deferring expenditures for big-ticket items. In
response, we have closed several manufacturing plants in this segment, and in 2011 we idled two additional facilities and completed the exit of our North American ready-to-assemble cabinet product line. Additionally, we continue to be focused on
improving cabinet production efficiencies at lower volumes. We completed the common architecture platform for our
MERILLAT®and QUALITY CABINETS™ brands in 2011, which we believe will enhance our manufacturing flexibility. Lastly,
we have completed the integration of our Builder Cabinet Group and Retail Cabinet Group to form Masco Cabinetry, and we are beginning to realize cost savings from the integration.







The cabinet manufacturing industry in the United States and Europe is highly competitive, with several
large competitors and numerous local and regional competitors. In 2011, we experienced greater promotional pricing activity in this segment, which impacts the segment’s results of operations. In addition to price, we believe that competition in
this industry is based largely on product quality, responsiveness to customer needs, product features and selection. Our significant North American competitors include American Woodmark Corporation and Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc.

Plumbing Products

The businesses in our Plumbing Products segment sell a wide variety of faucet and showering devices that are manufactured by or for us. The majority of our plumbing products are sold in North America and Europe
under the brand names DELTA®, PEERLESS®, HANSGROHE®, AXOR®,
BRIZO®, BRASSTECH®, BRISTANtm, GINGER®, NEWPORT BRASS®, ALSONS®and PLUMB SHOP®. Our products include single-handle and double-handle faucets, showerheads, handheld showers and valves, which are sold to
major retail accounts and to wholesalers and distributors who, in turn, sell our products to plumbers, building contractors, remodelers, smaller retailers and others.

We believe that our plumbing products are among the leaders in sales in the North American and European markets, with American Standard, Kohler, Moen and Pfister as major brand competitors. We also have several
European competitors, primarily in Germany, including Friedrich Grohe. We face significant competition from private label products (including house brands sold by certain of our customers). Many of the faucet and showering products with which our
products compete are manufactured in Asia. The businesses in our Plumbing Products segment source products from Asia and manufacture products in the United States, Europe and Asia.

Other plumbing products manufactured and sold by us include products branded as AQUA
GLASS®,
MIROLIN®, AMERICAN SHOWER & BATH™ and Innovex®acrylic and gelcoat tub and shower systems, bath and shower enclosure units, shower trays and laundry tubs, which are sold primarily to wholesale plumbing
distributors and home center retailers for the North American home improvement and new home construction markets. Our spas are manufactured and sold under HOT SPRING®, CALDERA®and other trademarks directly
to independent dealers. Major competitors include Kohler, Lasco, Maax and Jacuzzi. We sell HÜPPE®shower enclosures
through wholesale channels primarily in Western Europe. HERITAGE™ ceramic and acrylic bath fixtures and faucets are principally sold in the United Kingdom directly to selected retailers.

Also included in the Plumbing Products segment are brass and copper plumbing system components and other plumbing specialties,
which are sold to plumbing, heating and hardware wholesalers and to home center retailers, hardware stores, building supply outlets and other mass merchandisers. These products are marketed in North America for the wholesale trade under the
BRASSCRAFT®and BRASSTECH®trademarks and for the “do-it-yourself” market under the MASTER PLUMBER®and PLUMB SHOP®trademarks, and are
also sold under private label.

In addition to price, we believe that competition in our Plumbing Products markets is based largely on
brand reputation, product quality, product innovation and features, and breadth of product offering.

A substantial portion of our
plumbing products contain brass, the major components of which are copper and zinc. We have encountered price volatility for brass, brass components and any components containing copper and zinc; therefore, we have implemented a hedging strategy to
minimize the impact of this volatility. Legislation enacted in California, Vermont and Maryland mandates new standards for acceptable lead content in plumbing products sold in those states. Federal legislation mandating a national standard for lead
content in plumbing products will become effective in January 2014. Faucet and water supply valve manufacturers, including our plumbing product companies, will be required to obtain adequate supplies of lead-free brass or suitable alternative
materials for continued production of faucets and certain of our plumbing products. Over the







last several years, our Delta Faucet business introduced the DIAMOND™ SEAL TECHNOLOGY, which reduces the number of potential leak points in a faucet, simplifies installation and satisfies
legislation regarding the acceptable lead content in plumbing products.

Installation and Other Services

Our Installation and Other Services segment sells installed building products and distributes building products primarily to the new home
construction market, and, to a lesser extent, the retrofit and commercial construction markets, throughout the United States. In addition to insulation, we sell installed gutters, after-paint products, fireplaces and garage doors. The installation
and distribution of insulation comprised approximately nine percent of our consolidated net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. Installed building products are supplied primarily to custom and production homebuilders by our network of branches located
across the United States. Distributed products include insulation, insulation accessories, gutters, fireplaces and roofing. Distributed products are sold primarily to contractors and dealers (including lumber yards) from distribution centers in
various parts of the United States.

In order to respond to the significant decrease in demand in the new home construction industry
over the past several years, we have implemented various cost savings initiatives, including the consolidation and closure of approximately 110 branch locations. This rationalization has been accomplished while maintaining our strategic presence in
most of the top 100 Metropolitan Statistical Areas in the United States. In addition, we have de-emphasized the installation of certain non-insulation building products that are not core to our service offering, including windows and paint. In 2011,
we announced the decision to divest four non-core businesses in this segment that offered commercial drywall installation, millwork and framing services. We also completed the implementation of an ERP system, which we anticipate will enable us to
achieve future efficiencies through the automation of manual processes and to provide superior customer service to our customers.

Also
in response to the depressed new home construction market, we have expanded our ability to serve the residential retrofit and light commercial markets. Within the Installation and Other Services segment, we have several initiatives related to
improved residential energy efficiency, including retrofit installation services (primarily insulation) delivered directly to homeowners, as well as through retailers and dealer outlets.

In addition to price, we believe that competition in this industry is based largely on customer service and the quality of installation service. We
believe that we are the largest national provider of installed insulation in the new home construction industry in the United States. Our competitors include several regional contractors, as well as numerous local contractors and lumber yards. We
believe that our capabilities and financial resources are substantial compared to regional and local contractors.

Decorative Architectural
Products

We produce architectural coatings including paints, primers, specialty paint products, stains and
waterproofing products. The products are sold in the United States, Canada, China, Mexico and South America under the brand names
BEHR®,
KILZ®and BEHR EXPRESSIONS®to “do-it-yourself” and professional customers through home centers, paint stores and other retailers. Net sales of architectural coatings comprised
approximately 20 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009. Competitors in the architectural coatings market include large national and international brands such as Benjamin Moore, Glidden, Olympic, Sherwin-Williams, Valspar and
Zinsser, as well as many regional and other national brands. In addition to price, we believe that competition in this industry is based largely on product quality, technology and product innovation, customer service and brand reputation. Recently
our competitors have begun to offer combined paint and primer products similar to Behr’s PREMIUM PLUS ULTRA paint, which we introduced in 2009.







Our BEHR products are sold through The Home Depot, the segment’s and our
largest customer. The paint departments at The Home Depot stores include the Behr color center and computer kiosk with the COLOR SMART BY
BEHR®computerized color-matching system that enables consumers to select and coordinate their paint-color selection. The
loss of this segment’s sales to The Home Depot would have a material adverse effect on this segment’s business and on our consolidated business as a whole.

Titanium dioxide is a major ingredient in the manufacture of paint. The industry continues to experience cost increases for titanium dioxide as a result of surges in global demand and production capacity
limitations, which has impacted our operating results in this segment. Petroleum products are also used in the manufacture of architectural coatings. Significant increases in the cost of crude oil and natural gas lead to higher raw material costs
(e.g., for resins, solvents and packaging, as well as titanium dioxide), which can adversely affect the segment’s results of operations.

Our Decorative Architectural Products segment also includes LIBERTY®and BRAINERD®branded cabinet, door, window and other hardware, which is manufactured for us and sold to home centers, other retailers,
original equipment manufacturers and wholesale markets. Key competitors in North America include Amerock, Top Knobs, Direct Import, Hickory Hardware and Stanley Black & Decker. Decorative bath hardware and shower accessories are sold under
the brand names DELTA®, FRANKLIN BRASS®and DECOR BATHWARE®to distributors,
home centers and other retailers. Competitors include Moen and Gatco.

Other Specialty Products

We manufacture and sell vinyl, fiberglass and aluminum windows and patio doors under the MILGARD®brand name to the home improvement and new home construction markets, principally in the western United States. MILGARD
products are sold primarily through dealers and, to a lesser extent, directly to production and custom homebuilders and through lumber yards and home centers. In late 2010, Milgard Manufacturing introduced the ESSENCE SERIES™ wood windows and
doors, which combines a wood interior with a fiberglass exterior. This segment’s competitors in North America include national brands, such as Jeld-Wen, Simonton, Pella and Andersen, and numerous regional brands. In 2011, we closed four plants
in this segment.

In the United Kingdom, we manufacture and sell windows, related products and components under several brand names
including GRIFFIN™, CAMBRIAN™, PREMIER™ and DURAFLEX™. Sales are primarily through dealers and wholesalers to the repair and remodeling markets, although our DURAFLEX products are also sold to other window fabricators. United
Kingdom competitors include many small and mid-sized firms and a few large, vertically integrated competitors. In addition to price, we believe that competition in this industry is based largely on customer service and product quality.

We manufacture and sell a complete line of manual and electric staple gun tackers, staples and other fastening tools under the
brand names ARROW®and POWERSHOT®. We sell these products through various distribution channels including home centers and other retailers and wholesalers. Our principal North American competitor in
this product line is Stanley Black & Decker.

Additional Information



•We hold United States and foreign patents, patent applications, licenses, trademarks, trade names, trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing processes. As a
manufacturer and distributor of brand name products, we view our trademarks and other intellectual property rights as important, but do not believe that there is any reasonable likelihood of a loss of such rights that would have a material adverse
effect on our present business as a whole.







•We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. In addition to our responsibilities for environmental remediation, our
businesses are subject to other requirements regarding protection of the environment and worker health and safety. Our businesses are subject to requirements relating to the emission of volatile organic compounds which may impact our sourcing of
particleboard, require that we install special equipment in manufacturing facilities or that we reformulate paint products. As described above, our Plumbing Products segment is subject to restrictions on lead content in some of its products.
Compliance with such laws and regulations could significantly affect product performance as well as our production costs. We monitor applicable laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, climate disruption and worker health
and safety, and incur ongoing expense relating to compliance. We do not expect compliance with the federal, state and local regulations relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the
environment and worker health and safety, will result in material capital expenditures or have a material adverse effect on our earnings or competitive position.



•We do not consider backlog orders to be material.



•At December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 31,000 people. Satisfactory relations have generally prevailed between us and our employees.

Available Information

Our website is www.masco.com. Our periodic reports and all amendments to those reports required to be filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. This Report is being posted on our website concurrently with
its filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Material contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report.



