Item 1.Business.



Masco Corporation manufactures, distributes and installs home
    improvement and building products, with emphasis on brand-name
    consumer products and services holding leadership positions in
    their markets. We are among the largest manufacturers in North
    America of a number of home improvement and building products,
    including faucets, cabinets, architectural coatings and windows
    and we are one of the largest installers of insulation for the
    new home construction market. We generally provide broad product
    offerings in a variety of styles and price points and distribute
    products through multiple channels, including directly to
    homebuilders and wholesale and retail channels. Approximately
    79 percent of our 2009 sales were generated by our North
    American operations.



Over the past three years, we have experienced a significant
    downturn in the home improvement and new home construction
    markets. As a result, we have been focused on the strategic
    rationalization of our businesses, including business
    consolidations, plant closures, headcount reductions, system
    implementations and other cost savings initiatives. Throughout
    our businesses, we have closed several plants and since 2006, we
    have closed over 90 locations formerly operated by our
    Installation and Other Services segment.



We continue to focus on our cost structure and we are driving
    process improvement through the implementation of the Masco
    Business System (“MBS”). The MBS is the integrated
    leadership practices, processes, tools and capabilities that
    enable the effective and consistent execution of our strategies
    and operating plans to maximize our full potential. Through the
    MBS, we are advancing our strategy of growing organic sales
    based on a better understanding of our customer needs and
    investing in new product innovation. We are also focusing on
    enhancing customer experience through improvements in product
    quality. In 2009, we introduced several new products, including
    BEHR PREMIUM PLUS ULTRA
    INTERIOR®paint and the
    SIMPLICITYtmwindow by Milgard, and we expanded the
    DIAMONDtmSeal Technology faucets offered by Delta. We have also begun
    several new initiatives, including programs related to retro-fit
    home energy efficiency services, the sale of
    BEHR®paint to professional painters through The Home Depot and the
    combination of our North American cabinet business units to form
    Masco Cabinetry.





We report our financial results in five business segments
    aggregated by similarity in products and services. The following
    table sets forth, for the three years ended December 31,
    2009, the contribution of our segments to net sales and
    operating profit. Additional financial information concerning
    our operations by segment and by geographic regions, as well as
    general corporate expense, net, as of and for the three years
    ended December 31, 2009, is set forth in Note O to our
    consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of
    this Report.



(In Millions)Net Sales (1)200920082007Cabinets and Related Products$1,674$2,276$2,829Plumbing Products2,5643,0023,272Installation and Other Services1,2561,8612,615Decorative Architectural Products1,7141,6291,768Other Specialty Products584716929Total$7,792$9,484$11,413





Operating Profit (Loss) (1)(2)(3)(4)200920082007Cabinets and Related Products$(64)$4$336Plumbing Products237110271Installation and Other Services(131)(46)176Decorative Architectural Products375299384Other Specialty Products(199)(124)67Total$218$243$1,234









(1)Amounts exclude discontinued operations.(2)Operating profit (loss) is before general corporate expense,
    net, charge for defined-benefit plan curtailment, accelerated
    stock compensation expense, and (loss) gain on corporate fixed
    assets, net.(3)Operating profit (loss) is before charge regarding the 2009
    Cabinets and Related Products litigation settlement of
    $7 million and the 2008 Installation and Other Services
    litigation settlement of $9 million.(4)Operating profit (loss) includes impairment charges for goodwill
    and other intangible assets as follows: For 2009 –
    Plumbing Products – $39 million; and Other
    Specialty Products – $223 million. For
    2008 – Cabinets and Related Products –
    $59 million; Plumbing Products –
    $203 million; Installation and Other Services –
    $52 million; and Other Specialty Products –
    $153 million. For 2007 – Plumbing
    Products – $69 million; and Other Specialty
    Products – $50 million.



Cabinets
    and Related Products



In North America, we manufacture and sell economy, stock,
    semi-custom, assembled andready-to-assemblecabinetry for kitchen, bath, storage, home office and home
    entertainment applications in a broad range of styles and price
    points. In Europe, we manufacture and sell assembled andready-to-assemblekitchen, bath, storage, home office and home entertainment
    cabinetry. These products are primarily sold in the United
    States and in Europe under a number of trademarks including
    KRAFTMAID®,

    DISTINCTIONS®,

    TVILUM-SCANBIRKtmand
    WOODGATE®primarily to dealers and home centers, and under the brands
    MERILLAT®,

    MOOREStmand QUALITY
    CABINETS®primarily to distributors and homebuilders for both the home
    improvement and new home construction markets. Cabinet sales are
    significantly affected by levels of activity in both new home
    construction and retail consumer spending, particularly spending
    for major home





improvement products. A significant portion of our sales for the
    home improvement market is made through home center retailers.



Over the past several years, this segment of our business has
    been particularly affected by the downturn in the home
    improvement and new home construction markets due to new
    homebuilders producing smaller homes with smaller kitchens and
    end-consumers shifting to lower price point products. In 2009,
    we closed several manufacturing plants in this segment. We are
    currently focused on improving cabinet production efficiencies
    at lower volumes while maintaining our ability to respond
    effectively to increased demand when the home improvement and
    new home construction markets improve. By the end of 2010, we
    expect that we will be able to manufacture a common base cabinet
    at all of our plants that principally manufacture cabinets for
    the new home construction market in North America. We have also
    expanded our product offerings in this segment to include the
    manufacture and sale of countertops in North America.



The cabinet manufacturing industry in the United States and
    Europe is highly competitive, with several large competitors and
    numerous local and regional competitors. In addition to price,
    we believe that competition in this industry is based largely on
    product quality, responsiveness to customer needs, product
    features and selection. Significant North American competitors
    include American Woodmark Corporation and Fortune Brands, Inc.



In February 2010, we announced the combination of our Builder
    Cabinet Group and Retail Cabinet Group to form Masco
    Cabinetry. We believe that the creation of Masco Cabinetry will
    help us establish an even stronger position to lead the cabinet
    category within the repair and remodel and new home construction
    markets. Masco Cabinetry will focus on all channels of
    distribution by offering a broad portfolio of cabinets and
    countertops at a wide range of price points and in a variety of
    styles.



Plumbing
    Products



Our plumbing products segment sells a wide variety of faucet and
    showering devices that are manufactured by or for us. Our
    plumbing products are sold in North America and Europe under
    various brand names including
    DELTA®,

    PEERLESS®,

    HANSGROHE®,

    AXOR®,

    BRIZO®,

    BRASSTECH®,

    BRISTANtm,

    NEWPORT
    BRASS®,

    ALSONS®,

    SIRRUStmand PLUMB
    SHOP®.

    Products include single-handle and double-handle faucets,
    showerheads, handheld showers and valves, which are sold to
    major retail accounts and to wholesalers and distributors who
    sell these products to plumbers, building contractors,
    remodelers, smaller retailers and others.



We believe that our products in this segment are among the
    leaders in sales in the North American and European markets,
    with American Standard, Kohler, Moen and Price Pfister as major
    brand competitors. We also have several European competitors,
    primarily in Germany, including Friedrich Grohe. We face
    significant competition from private label products (including
    house brands sold by certain of our customers). Many of the
    faucet and showering products with which our products compete
    are manufactured in Asia. The businesses in our Plumbing
    Products segment source products from Asia and manufacture
    products in the United States, Europe, and Asia.



Other plumbing products manufactured and sold by us include AQUA
    GLASS®,

    MIROLIN®and AMERICAN SHOWER &
    BATHtmacrylic and gelcoat bath and shower enclosure units, shower
    trays and laundry tubs, which are sold primarily to wholesale
    plumbing distributors and home center retailers for the North
    American home improvement and new home construction markets. Our
    spas are manufactured and sold under HOT
    SPRING®,

    CALDERA®and other trademarks directly to independent dealers. Major
    competitors include Kohler, Lasco, Maax and Jacuzzi. We sell
    HÜPPE®shower enclosures through wholesale channels primarily in
    western Europe.
    HERITAGEtmceramic and acrylic bath fixtures and faucets are principally
    sold in the United Kingdom directly to selected retailers.



Also included in the Plumbing Products segment are brass and
    copper plumbing system components and other plumbing
    specialties, which are sold to plumbing, heating and hardware
    wholesalers and to home center retailers, hardware stores,
    building supply outlets and other mass merchandisers. These
    products are





marketed in North America for the wholesale trade under the
    BRASSCRAFT®and BRASSTECH trademarks and for the “do-it-yourself”
    market under the MASTER
    PLUMBER®and PLUMB SHOP trademarks and are also sold under private label.



In addition to price, we believe that competition in our
    Plumbing Products markets is based largely on brand reputation,
    product quality, product innovation and features, and breadth of
    product offering.



A substantial portion of our plumbing products are made from
    brass, the major components of which are copper and zinc. From
    time to time, we have encountered volatility in the price of
    brass. In the past, we have implemented a hedging strategy to
    attempt to minimize the impact of commodity price volatility; a
    hedging strategy may be implemented in the future. Legislation
    enacted in California and Vermont, which became effective in
    January 2010, mandates new standards for acceptable lead content
    in plumbing products sold in those states. Similar legislation
    may be considered by other states. Faucet and water supply valve
    manufacturers, including our plumbing product companies, will be
    required to obtain adequate supplies of lead-free brass or
    suitable alternative materials for continued production of
    faucets.



In 2008, our Delta Faucet business introduced a new water
    delivery system known as DIAMOND Seal Technology. DIAMOND Seal
    Technology reduces the number of potential leak points in a
    faucet, simplifies installation and satisfies the legislation
    enacted in California and Vermont regulating the acceptable lead
    content in plumbing products. Delta Faucet, in the near-term,
    plans to incorporate DIAMOND Seal Technology into its
    domestically manufactured single-handle faucets and, in the
    future, plans to expand the application of the technology to
    most other Delta faucets. The success of DIAMOND Seal Technology
    depends on many factors, including the performance of the
    technology and the market’s acceptance of the technology as
    well as Delta’s ability to integrate successfully the
    technology into its most popular faucets.



Installation
    and Other Services





Within this segment, we have also begun several new initiatives
    related to improved energy efficiency, including energy audit
    services and related home improvements targeted at the retrofit
    and remodeling markets.



In addition to price, we believe that competition in this
    industry is based largely on customer service and the quality of
    installation service. We believe that we are the largest
    national provider of installed insulation in the new home
    construction industry in the United States. Our competitors
    include several regional contractors, as well as numerous local
    contractors and lumber yards. We believe that our financial
    resources are substantial compared to regional and local
    contractors.





Decorative
    Architectural Products



We produce architectural coatings including paints, primers,
    specialty paint products, stains, varnishes and waterproofing
    products. The products are sold in the United States, Canada,
    China, Mexico and South America under the brand names
    BEHR®,

    KILZ®,

    CASUAL
    COLORS®and
    EXPRESSIONS®to the “do-it-yourself” and professional markets
    through home centers, paint stores and other retailers. Net
    sales of architectural coatings comprised approximately
    20 percent, 15 percent and 13 percent of our
    consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31,
    2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Competitors in the
    architectural coatings market include large national and
    international brands such as Benjamin Moore, Glidden, Olympic,
    Sherwin-Williams, Valspar and Zinsser, as well as many regional
    and other national brands. In addition to price, we believe that
    competition in this industry is based largely on product
    quality, technology and product innovation, customer service and
    brand reputation.



Our BEHR brand is sold through The Home Depot, the
    segment’s and our largest customer. The paint departments
    at The Home Depot stores include the Behr color center and
    computer kiosk with the COLOR SMART BY
    BEHR®computerized color-matching system that enables consumers to
    select and coordinate their paint-color selection. In 2009,
    Behr’s product offering was enhanced by the introduction of
    the BEHR PREMIUM PLUS ULTRA INTERIOR paint, which is a
    high-quality, low volatile organic compound, interior paint and
    primer in one. The loss of this segment’s sales to The Home
    Depot would have a material adverse effect on this
    segment’s business and on our consolidated business as a
    whole.



Titanium dioxide is a major ingredient in the manufacture of
    paint. Shortages of supply and cost increases for titanium
    dioxide in the past have resulted from surges in global demand
    and from production capacity limitations. Petroleum products are
    also used in the manufacture of architectural coatings.
    Significant increases in the cost of crude oil and natural gas
    lead to higher raw material costs (e.g., for resins, solvents
    and packaging, as well as titanium dioxide), which can adversely
    affect the segment’s results of operations.



Our Decorative Architectural Products segment also includes
    LIBERTY®cabinet, door, window and other hardware, which is manufactured
    for us and sold to home centers, other retailers, original
    equipment manufacturers and wholesale markets. Key competitors
    in North America include Amerock, Belwith, Umbra and Stanley.
    Decorative bath hardware and shower accessories are sold under
    the brand names FRANKLIN
    BRASS®and DECOR
    BATHWARE®to distributors, home center retailers and other retailers.
    Competitors include Moen and Globe Union.



Other
    Specialty Products



We manufacture and sell vinyl, fiberglass and aluminum windows
    and patio doors under the
    MILGARD®brand name to the home improvement and new home construction
    markets, principally in the western United States. MILGARD
    products are sold primarily through dealers and, to a lesser
    extent, directly to production homebuilders and through lumber
    yards and home center retailers. In 2009, Milgard expanded its
    product line with the introduction of the SIMPLICITY Window,
    which is an energy-efficient vinyl window targeted to
    value-conscious customers. This segment’s competitors in
    North America include national brands, such as Jeld-Wen,
    Simonton, Pella and Andersen, and numerous regional brands. In
    the United Kingdom, we manufacture and sell windows, related
    products and components under several brand names including
    GRIFFINtm,

    CAMBRIANtm,

    PREMIERtmand
    DURAFLEXtm.

    Sales are primarily through dealers and wholesalers to the
    repair and remodeling markets, although our Duraflex business is
    also a supplier to other window fabricators. United Kingdom
    competitors include many small and mid-sized firms and a few
    large, vertically integrated competitors. In addition to price,
    we believe that competition in this industry is based largely on
    customer service and product quality.



We manufacture and sell a complete line of manual and electric
    staple gun tackers, staples and other fastening tools under the
    brand names
    ARROW®and
    POWERSHOT®.

    We sell these products through various distribution channels
    including home centers and other retailers and wholesalers. Our
    principal North American competitor in this product line is
    Stanley.





Additional
    Information





•We hold United States and foreign patents, patent applications,
    licenses, trademarks and trade names. As a manufacturer and
    distributor of brand name products, we view our trademarks and
    other proprietary rights as important, but do not believe that
    there is any reasonable likelihood of a loss of such rights that
    would have a material adverse effect on our present business as
    a whole.



•All of our operating segments, except the Plumbing Products
    segment, normally experience stronger sales during the second
    and third calendar quarters, corresponding with the peak season
    for new home construction and remodeling.



•We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the
    protection of the environment. In addition to responsibilities
    relating to environmental remediation, our businesses are
    subject to other requirements regarding protection of the
    environment and worker health and safety. Our businesses are
    subject to requirements relating to the emission of volatile
    organic compounds which may impact our sourcing of
    particleboard, require that we install special equipment in
    manufacturing facilities or that we reformulate paint products.
    Our Plumbing Products segment is subject to restrictions on lead
    content in some of its products. Compliance with such laws and
    regulations could significantly affect product performance as
    well as our production costs. We monitor applicable laws and
    regulations relating to the protection of the environment and
    worker health and safety, and incur ongoing expense relating to
    compliance. Compliance with the federal, state and local
    regulations relating to the discharge of materials into the
    environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the
    environment and worker health and safety, is not expected to
    result in material capital expenditures or to have a material
    adverse effect on our earnings or competitive position.



•We do not consider backlog orders to be material.



•At December 31, 2009, we employed approximately
    35,400 people. Satisfactory relations have generally
    prevailed between us and our employees.



Available
    Information



Our website is www.masco.com. Our periodic reports and all
    amendments to those reports required to be filed or furnished
    pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge
    through our website. ThisForm 10-Kis being posted on our website concurrently with its filing with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission. We will continue to post
    our periodic reports onForm 10-Qand our current reports onForm 8-Kand any amendments to those documents to our website as soon as
    reasonably practicable after those reports are filed with or
    furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Material
    contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into
    this Report onForm 10-K.

