Item 1.    Business.

Masco Corporation manufactures, distributes and installs home improvement and building products, with an emphasis on brand-name
consumer products and services holding leadership positions. We are among the largest manufacturers in North America of a number of home improvement and building products, including faucets, cabinets,
architectural coatings and windows, and we are a leading provider of services that include the installation of insulation and other building products. We provide broad product offerings in a variety
of styles and price points and distribute products through multiple channels, including directly to homebuilders and wholesale and retail channels. Approximately 81 percent of our 2014 sales
were generated by our North American operations.

The
market for home improvement and building products at retailers increased by approximately four percent during 2014, despite continued economic uncertainties and modest consumer
spending. Housing starts increased approximately ten percent during 2014.

Throughout
2014, we continued the execution of our strategy to position the Company for future growth, focusing on three strategic pillars: leveraging opportunities across our
businesses, driving the full potential of our core businesses and actively managing our portfolio. We achieved gains in each of these areas. First, we leveraged our product leadership positions by
expanding our brands and introducing innovative new and improved products. We believe that we gained share in our North American plumbing business with our DELTA®, PEERLESS®,
and BRIZO® brands, and internationally with our HANSGROHE® products. In addition to its strong position with the "do-it-yourself" consumer, our decorative architectural
products businesses continued to focus on the professional segment with BEHRPRO® paint and KILZ® PRO-X product lines. BEHR® paint expanded its MARQUEE®
product line from exterior paint to interior paint and continued to pursue international opportunities. Milgard Manufacturing, our manufacturer of windows in the western U.S., and our U.K. Window
Group continued to gain share.

To
help drive the full potential of our core businesses, the second pillar of our strategy, we adopted a leaner operating model. We are transforming our corporate structure to a
center-led model. We believe this model will increase our business units' efficiencies and our overall effectiveness as an organization. This change will align our corporate structure to support our
strategy to drive the full potential of our businesses. In addition, we continued reducing costs and implementing lean principles and production process improvements. Our Installation and Other
Services segments saw progress toward its goals during 2014 through incremental new home construction activity, cost reductions from lean processes and leveraging our ERP system and supply chain
savings. During 2014, we remained focused on improvements at our Cabinets and Related Products businesses, which continued to face challenges.

The
third pillar of our strategy is to actively manage our portfolio. In September 2014, we announced a plan to spin off 100 percent of our Installation and Other Services
businesses into an independent, publicly-traded company through a tax-free stock distribution to our shareholders. We believe that these businesses will be better positioned to operate as a separate
company that will focus on growth by capitalizing on new home construction in the United States as well as further expanding into commercial and retrofit categories. The transaction is expected to be
completed in mid-2015.

To
further drive value creation for our shareholders, our Board of Directors approved the repurchase of an aggregate 50 million shares of our common stock and increased our
dividend by 20 percent. During 2014, we repurchased 7 million shares (including 1.7 million shares repurchased in the first quarter of 2014 to offset the dilutive impact of
long-term stock awards) of our common stock. At December 31, 2014, we had approximately $1.7 billion of cash, cash investments and short-term bank deposits.

We
believe that the actions we took during 2014 help provide the foundation for us to enhance future shareholder value. We also believe that the spin-off of our Installation and Other
Services businesses will allow us to pursue a more focused strategy of growth through the innovation and manufacturing of









branded
building products. We plan to continue to actively manage our portfolio, identify growth opportunities in key industries and produce new products that differentiate us in the marketplace. By
continuing our disciplined execution of our strategy, we believe that we will increase shareholder value by enhancing our customer experience and improving our efficiencies.

Our Business Segments

We report our financial results in five business segments aggregated by similarity in products and services. The following table sets
forth the contribution of our segments to net sales and operating profit (loss) for the three years ended December 31, 2014. Additional financial information concerning our operations by
segment and by geographic regions, as well as
general corporate expense, net, as of and for the three years ended December 31, 2014, is set forth in Note P to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this
Report.

(In Millions)Net Sales (1)201420132012Cabinets and Related Products$999$1,014$939Plumbing Products3,3083,1832,955Installation and Other Services1,5151,4121,209Decorative Architectural Products1,9981,9271,818Other Specialty Products701637574​​​​​​​​​​​Total$8,521$8,173$7,495​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Operating Profit (Loss)(1)(2)(3)(4)201420132012Cabinets and Related Products$(62)$(10)$(89)Plumbing Products512394307Installation and Other Services5837(19)Decorative Architectural Products360351329Other Specialty Products4735(31)​​​​​​​​​​​Total$915$807$497​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)Amounts exclude discontinued operations.(2)Operating profit (loss) is before general corporate expense, net, and gain on sale of fixed assets, net.(3)Operating profit (loss) is before income of $9 million regarding the 2014 litigation settlement in
the Decorative Architectural Products segment and before net charges of $77 million regarding the 2012 litigation settlement, primarily in the Installation and Other Services segment.(4)Operating profit (loss) includes impairment charges for other intangible assets as follows: For
2012 – Other Specialty Products – $42 million.

All
of our operating segments, except the Plumbing Products segment, normally experience stronger sales during the second and third calendar quarters, corresponding with the peak season
for new home construction and repair and remodel activity.









Cabinets and Related Products

In North America, we manufacture and sell value-priced, stock and semi-custom assembled cabinetry for kitchen, bath, storage, home
office and home entertainment applications in a broad range of styles and price points to address consumer preferences. We have also expanded our product offerings in this segment to include the
manufacture and sale of kitchen countertops, as well as an integrated bathroom vanity and countertop solution. In the United Kingdom, we manufacture and sell assembled and ready-to-assemble kitchen,
bath, and storage cabinetry. Our KRAFTMAID® brand is sold primarily to dealers, home centers and mass merchants and our MERILLAT®, MOORES™ and QUALITY
CABINETS™ brands are sold primarily to dealers and homebuilders for both home improvement and new home construction. Cabinet sales are significantly affected by levels of activity in both
new home construction and retail consumer spending, particularly spending for major kitchen and bathroom renovation projects. A significant portion of our sales for home improvement are made through
home center retailers.

Our
Cabinets and Related Products segment was particularly affected by the economic downturn and decline in new home construction and repair and remodel activity. While improving,
consumer spending for big ticket remodeling projects, including large kitchen and bath remodeling projects, continues to be below normal levels, which impacts our profitability. Although home
construction is improving and is expected to continue to improve, the demand for new homes remains below the historic average and demand has increased for multi-family housing units, which are smaller
than single-family housing units and require fewer cabinets for the kitchen and bathrooms. In addition, our initiatives to improve this segment, including rationalizing our businesses, closing plants
and reducing headcount, have been complex, time-consuming and expensive. The consolidation of our North American cabinet businesses has involved the integration of multiple manufacturing processes and
information technology platforms and continues to affect our operations. We continue to focus on our cost structure in this segment and improving cabinet production efficiencies. Although faced with
challenges, we are continuing to pursue our strategy to increase sales in this segment through brand building, new product introductions aimed to provide differentiated products to our multiple sales
channels, and product innovation.

The
cabinet manufacturing industry in the United States and the United Kingdom includes several large competitors and numerous local and regional competitors. In recent years, we have
experienced significant competition in the form of discounts and new product offerings by our
competitors, which have impacted the segment's results of operations. We also face competition from foreign manufacturers. In addition to price, we believe that competition in this industry is based
largely on product quality, responsiveness to customer needs, product features and selection. Our North American competitors include American Woodmark Corporation, Fortune Brands Home &
Security, Inc. and Norcraft Companies, Inc.

The
raw materials used in this segment are primarily hardwood lumber, plywood and particleboard, and are available from multiple sources, both domestic and foreign.

Plumbing Products

The businesses in our Plumbing Products segment sell a wide variety of faucet, bathing and showering devices that are manufactured by
or for us. The majority of our plumbing products are sold in North America and Europe under the brand names DELTA®, PEERLESS®, HANSGROHE®, AXOR®,
BRIZO®, BRASSTECH®, BRISTAN™, GINGER®, HERITAGE™, NEWPORT BRASS® and PLUMB SHOP®. Our products include single-handle
and double-handle faucets, showerheads, handheld showers, valves, bathing units and toilets. These products are sold to major retail accounts and to wholesalers and distributors that, in turn, sell
our products to plumbers, building contractors, remodelers, smaller retailers and others.









Our
spas are manufactured and sold under HOT SPRING®, CALDERA®, FREEFLOW® and other trademarks directly to independent specialty retailers as well as
through online mass merchant retailers. Competitors include Jacuzzi, Sundance Spas, Master Spas and Dynasty Spas. We sell HÜPPE® shower enclosures through wholesale channels
in Europe. HERITAGE™ ceramic and acrylic bath fixtures and faucets are principally sold in the United Kingdom directly to select retailers.

In
2014, we completed the process of integrating our plumbing products sold under our AQUA GLASS® and AMERICAN SHOWER & BATH™ brands into the DELTA and
PEERLESS brands. Our acrylic tub and shower systems, bath and shower enclosure units, shower
trays and laundry tubs are now manufactured and sold under the DELTA, PEERLESS, and MIROLIN® brand names. These products are sold primarily to home center retailers for home improvement
and new home construction in North America, although our MIROLIN products are also sold to wholesalers and distributors in Canada.

Also
included in our Plumbing Products segment are brass and copper plumbing system components and other plumbing specialties, which are sold to plumbing, heating and hardware
wholesalers and to home center retailers, hardware stores, building supply outlets and other mass merchandisers. These products are marketed in North America for the wholesale trade under our
BRASSCRAFT®, COBRA®, PLUMB SHOP®, and BRASSTECH®, and MASTER PLUMBER® trademarks, and are also sold under private label.

We
believe that our plumbing products are among the leaders in sales in North America and Europe, with American Standard Brands, Kohler Co., Fortune Brands Home &
Security Inc. and Pfister Faucets as major competitors. We are also experiencing competition from foreign manufacturers, including Grohe, particularly in Germany, China and the Middle East. We
face significant competition from private label products (including house brands sold by certain of our customers). Many of the faucet and showering products with which our products compete are
manufactured by foreign manufacturers that are putting downward pressure on price. The businesses in our Plumbing Products segment source products primarily from Asia and manufacture products in the
United States, Europe and Asia. In addition to price, we believe that competition for our plumbing products is based largely on brand reputation, product quality, product innovation and features and
breadth of product offering.

A
substantial portion of our plumbing products contain brass, the major components of which are copper and zinc. We have multiple sources, both domestic and foreign, for the raw
materials used in this segment, and sufficient raw materials have been available for our needs. We have encountered price volatility for brass, brass components and any components containing copper
and zinc; therefore, we have implemented a hedging strategy to help reduce the impact of this volatility.

Federal
legislation mandating a national standard for lead content in plumbing products used to convey drinking water became effective in January 2014. Faucet and water supply valve
manufacturers, including our plumbing product companies, are required to obtain adequate supplies of lead-free brass or suitable alternative materials for continued production of faucets and certain
of our other plumbing products. Our plumbing products that are affected by this legislation meet the federal standards, including our Delta Faucet products that use DIAMOND™ SEAL
TECHNOLOGY, which also reduces the number of potential leak points in a faucet and simplifies installation.

Installation and Other Services

Our Installation and Other Services segment sells installed building products and distributes building products primarily for new home
construction, and, to a lesser extent, retrofit and commercial construction, throughout the United States. In addition to insulation, we sell installed gutters, after-paint products, garage doors and
fireplaces. The installation and distribution of insulation comprised approximately thirteen percent, twelve percent and eleven percent of our consolidated net sales in 2014, 2013 and 2012,
respectively. We install building products primarily to homebuilders through our network of branches located across the United States. Our distributed products include insulation, insulation









accessories,
gutters and roofing, among others. Distributed products are sold primarily to contractors and dealers (including lumber yards) from distribution centers in various parts of the United
States.

We
continue to pursue the expansion of this segment to serve the residential and commercial channels and custom homes and we have several initiatives related to improved residential
energy efficiency, including retrofit installation services (primarily insulation) delivered directly to homeowners and traditional remodeling contractors, as well as through retailers and dealer
outlets.

In
addition to price, we believe that competition in this industry is based largely on customer service and the quality of installation service. We believe that we are a leading provider
of installed insulation in the new home construction industry in the United States. Our competitors include Installed Building Products and several regional contractors, as well as numerous local
contractors and lumber yards. We believe that our capabilities and financial resources are substantial compared to regional and local contractors.

We
procure the materials used by this segment, primarily insulation, from multiple sources.

Decorative Architectural Products

We produce architectural coatings including paints, primers, specialty paint products, stains and waterproofing products. The products
are sold in the United States, Canada, China, Mexico and South America under the brand names BEHRPRO®, BEHR® and KILZ® to "do-it-yourself" and professional
customers through home centers and other retailers. Net sales of architectural coatings comprised approximately 21 percent in 2014 and 2013 and approximately 20 percent of our
consolidated net sales in 2012. Our competitors include large national and international brands such as Benjamin Moore, Glidden, Olympic, PPG, Sherwin-Williams, Valspar and Zinsser, as well as many
regional and other national brands. In addition to price, we believe that competition in this industry is based largely on product quality, technology and product innovation, customer service and
brand reputation. In 2014, Behr introduced MARQUEE® Interior Paint that delivers high-performance, one-coat coverage with every color in the exclusive MARQUEE Interior One-Coat Color
Collection.

Our
BEHR products are principally sold through The Home Depot, this segment's and our largest customer. The loss of this segment's sales to The Home Depot would have a material adverse
effect on this segment's business and on our consolidated business as a whole.

Titanium
dioxide is a major ingredient in the manufacture of paint. The price for titanium dioxide can fluctuate as a result of surges in global demand and production capacity
limitations, which can impact our operating results in this segment. Petroleum products are also used in the manufacture of architectural coatings. Significant increases in the cost of crude oil and
natural gas lead to higher raw material costs (e.g., for resins, solvents and packaging, as well as titanium dioxide), which can adversely affect the segment's results of operations. We have
agreements with the significant suppliers of the major raw materials used in this segment which are intended to help assure continued availability.

Our
Decorative Architectural Products segment also includes LIBERTY® and BRAINERD® branded cabinet, door, window and other hardware, which is manufactured for us
and sold to home centers, other retailers, original equipment manufacturers and wholesalers. Key competitors in North America include Amerock, Top Knobs and house brands. Decorative bath hardware and
shower accessories are sold under the brand names DELTA®, FRANKLIN BRASS® and DECOR BATHWARE® to distributors, home centers and other retailers. Competitors include
Moen, Gatco and house brands sold by certain of our customers.

Other Specialty Products

We manufacture and sell vinyl, fiberglass and aluminum windows and patio doors, as well as the ESSENCE SERIES® windows and
doors, which combines a wood interior with a fiberglass exterior,









under
the MILGARD® brand name for home improvement and new home construction, principally in the western United States. MILGARD products are sold primarily through dealers and, to a lesser
extent, directly to production and custom homebuilders and through lumber yards and home centers. This segment's competitors in North America include national brands, such as Jeld-Wen, Marvin, Pella
and Andersen, and numerous regional brands.

In
the United Kingdom, we manufacture and sell windows, doors, related products and components under several brand names including GRIFFIN™, PREMIER™ and
DURAFLEX™. Sales are primarily through dealers and wholesalers to the repair and remodeling markets, although our DURAFLEX products are also sold to other window fabricators. United
Kingdom competitors include many small and mid-sized firms and a few large, vertically integrated competitors.

In
addition to price, we believe that competition in this industry in both the domestic and foreign markets is based largely on customer service, product quality and brand reputation.

We
manufacture and sell a complete line of manual and electric staple gun tackers, staples and other fastening tools under the brand names ARROW® and POWERSHOT®.
We sell these products through various distribution channels including home centers and other retailers and wholesalers. Our principal North American competitor in this product line is Stanley
Black & Decker.

The
raw materials used in this segment have been available from multiple sources.

Additional Information

We hold U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications, licenses, trademarks, trade names, trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing
processes. As a manufacturer and distributor of brand name products, we view our trademarks and other intellectual property rights as important, but do not believe that there is any reasonable
likelihood of a loss of such rights that would have a material adverse effect on our present business as a whole.

We
are subject to U.S. and foreign government regulations, particularly those pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees and consumers), climate disruption and
environmental issues. In addition to our responsibilities for environmental remediation, our businesses are subject to other requirements regarding protection of the environment and worker health and
safety. Our businesses are subject to requirements relating to the emission of volatile organic compounds which may impact our sourcing of particleboard and may require that we install special
equipment in manufacturing facilities or that we reformulate paint products. As described above, our Plumbing Products segment is subject to restrictions on lead content in some of its products.
Compliance with such laws and regulations could significantly affect product performance as well as our production costs. We monitor applicable laws and regulations relating to the protection of the
environment, climate disruption and worker health and safety, and incur ongoing expense relating to compliance. We do not expect compliance with the federal, state and local regulations relating to
the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment and worker health and safety, will result in material capital expenditures or have a
material adverse effect on our earnings or competitive position.

We
do not consider backlog orders to be material in any of our segments.

At
December 31, 2014, we employed approximately 32,000 people. We have generally experienced satisfactory relations with our employees.

Available Information

Our website is www.masco.com. Our periodic reports and all amendments to those reports required to be filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are
electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. This Report is being posted on our website concurrently with its filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Material contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report.









