10-K


a2197602z10-k.htm

10-K

Use these links to rapidly review the document

2009 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT 
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from            to

Commission File Number 001-34627

GENERAC HOLDINGS INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE

(State of incorporation)

20-5654756

(IRS Employer Identification No.)

S45 W29290 Hwy. 59, Waukesha, WI

(Address of principal executive offices)


(Zip Code)

(262) 544-4811

(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

SECURITIES
REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

Common Stock, $0.01 par value

New York Stock Exchange

(Title of class)

(Name of exchange on which registered)

SECURITIES
REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:

None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files). Yes

o

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this form 10-K or any amendment to
this form 10-K

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

o

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

ý

(Do not check if a

smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the
Act) Yes

o

No

ý

The aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant on June 30, 2009, the last business day of the
registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter, is not applicable because the registrant was not publicly traded as of June 30, 2009. The aggregate market value of the voting common
equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant, as of March 29, 2010, was approximately $366,088,154 million based upon the closing price reported for such date on the New
York Stock Exchange. For purposes of this disclosure, shares of common stock held by persons who hold more than 5% of the outstanding shares of common stock and shares held by executive officers and
directors of the registrant have been excluded because such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of executive officer or affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive
determination for other purposes.

As
of March 29, 2010, 67,529,290 shares of registrant's common stock were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions
of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2010 Proxy Statement"), which will be filed by the registrant on or prior to
120 days following the end of the registrant's fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.


2009 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT


Page

PART I

Item 1.

Business


Item 1A.

Risk Factors


Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments


Item 2.

Properties


Item 3.

Legal Proceedings


Item 4.

(Removed and Reserved)


PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities


Item 6.

Selected Financial Data


Item 7.

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


Item 9A(T).

Controls and Procedures


Item 9B.

Other Information


PART III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance


Item 11.

Executive Compensation


Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters


Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence


Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules



PART I

Forward-Looking Statements

This annual report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. All
statements other than statements of historical fact included in this annual report are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give our current expectations and projections relating to
our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business. You can identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to
historical or current facts. These statements may include words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "plan," "intend," "believe," "may," "should," "can have," "likely," "future" and
other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of the timing or nature of future operating or financial performance or other events.

The forward-looking statements contained in this annual report are based on assumptions that we have made in light of our industry experience and on our
perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. As you read and consider this annual report,
you should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) and assumptions. Although we believe
that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, you should be aware that many factors could affect our actual financial results and cause them to differ materially from
those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this annual report include estimates regarding:

•

our business, financial and operating results and future economic
performance;

•

proposed new product and service offerings; and

•

management's goals, expectations and objectives and other similar expressions concerning matters
that are not historical facts.

Factors that could affect our actual financial results and cause them to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements
include:

•

demand for our products;

•

frequency of major power outages;

•

availability of raw materials and key components used producing our
products;

•

competitive factors in the industry in which we
operate;

•

our dependence on our distribution network;

•

our ability to invest in, develop or adapt to changing technologies and manufacturing
techniques;

•

changes in environmental, health and safety laws and
regulations;

•

loss of our key management and employees;

•

increase in product liability claims; and

•

other factors that are described under
"Item 1A

—

Risk Factors."

Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of these assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may vary in material
respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements.

Any forward-looking statement made by us in this annual report speaks only as of the date on which we make it. Factors or events that could cause our actual
results to differ may emerge from time to time,



and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise,
except as may be required by law.

Item 1.    Business

We are a leading designer and manufacturer of a wide range of standby generators for the residential, industrial and commercial
markets. As the only significant market participant focused exclusively on these products, we have one of the leading market positions in the standby generator market in the United States and Canada.
We design, engineer and manufacture generators with an output of between 800W and 9mW of power. We design, manufacture, source and modify engines, alternators, automatic transfer switches and other
components necessary for our products. Our generators are fueled by natural gas, liquid propane, gasoline, diesel and Bi-Fuel™.

We
have what we believe is an industry leading, multi-layered distribution network, and our products are available in thousands of outlets across the United States and Canada. We
distribute our generators through independent residential and industrial dealers, electrical wholesalers, national accounts, private label arrangements, retailers, catalogs and e-commerce
merchants. We currently sell our products primarily in North America. We have a significant market share in the residential and light commercial generator markets, which we believe are currently under
penetrated. We believe that our leading market position is largely attributable to our strategy of providing a broad product line of high-quality, innovative and affordable products
through our extensive and multi-layered distribution network.

We
own and operate three manufacturing plants and one distribution facility in Eagle, Wisconsin, Waukesha, Wisconsin and Whitewater, Wisconsin, totaling approximately 1,000,000 total
square feet. We also maintain inventory warehouses in the United States that accommodate the rapid response requirements of our customers.

History

Generac Holdings Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was founded in 2006. Generac Power Systems, Inc., or Generac Power
Systems, our principal operating subsidiary, is a Wisconsin corporation, which was founded in 1959 to market a line of affordable portable generators that offered superior performance and features. We
expanded beyond portable generators in 1980 into the industrial market with the introduction of our first stationary generators that provided up to 200 kW. We entered the residential market in 1989
with a residential standby generator, and expanded our product development and global distribution system in the 1990s, forming a series of alliances that tripled our higher output generator net
sales. In 1998, we sold our Generac® portable products business to the Beacon Group, a private equity firm, which eventually sold this business to Briggs & Stratton. Our growth
accelerated in 2000 as we expanded our automatic residential standby generator product offering, implemented our multi-layered distribution philosophy, and introduced our quiet-running QT Series
generators in 2005, accelerating our penetration in the commercial market. In 2008, we successfully expanded our position in the portable generator market after the expiration of our
non-compete agreement with the Beacon Group entered into in connection with the aforementioned Beacon Group transaction. Today, we manufacture a full line of generators for a wide variety
of applications and markets. Our success is built on engineering expertise, manufacturing excellence and our innovative approaches to the market.

CCMP transactions

In November 2006, affiliates of CCMP Capital Advisors, LLC, or CCMP, together with affiliates of Unitas Capital Ltd., or
Unitas, and members of our management, purchased an aggregate of $689 million of our equity capital. In addition, on November 10, 2006, Generac Power Systems



borrowed
an aggregate of $1,380 million, consisting of an initial drawdown of $950 million under a $1.1 billion first lien secured credit facility and $430 million under a
$430 million second lien secured credit facility. With the proceeds from these equity and debt financings, together with cash on hand at Generac Power Systems, we (1) acquired all of the
capital stock of Generac Power Systems and repaid certain pre-transaction indebtedness of Generac Power Systems for $2.0 billion, (2) paid $66 million in transaction
costs related to the transaction and (3) retained $3.0 million for general corporate purposes.

We
refer to the foregoing transactions collectively as the "CCMP Transactions."

Initial public offering and corporate reorganization

On February 17, 2010, we completed our initial public offering (IPO) of 18,750,000 shares of our common stock at a price of
$13.00 per share. In addition, on March 18, 2010, the underwriters exercised their option and purchased an additional 1,950,500 shares of our common stock from us. We received approximately
$224.1 million in net proceeds at the initial closing, and approximately $23.8 million in net proceeds from the underwriters' option exercise, after deducting the underwriting discount
and total expenses related to the offering. The proceeds from the initial closing were used entirely to pay down our second lien credit facility in full and to repay a portion of our
first lien credit facility. Proceeds from the option exercise are to be used for general corporate purposes, including debt repayment.

Our
capitalization prior to the IPO consisted of Series A Preferred Stock, Class B Common Stock and Class A Common Stock. In connection with the IPO, we effected a
corporate reorganization in which, after giving effect to a 3.294 for one reverse Class A Common Stock split, our Class B Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock was converted
into Class A Common Stock and our Class A Common Stock was then reclassified as common stock. Following the IPO, we have only one class of common stock outstanding. We refer to these
transactions, as the "Corporate Reorganization." For more information regarding our Corporate Reorganization, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations—Corporate reorganization."

Our products

We design, engineer and manufacture generators with an output of between 800W and 9mW. In the manufacturing process for our generators,
we design, manufacture, source and modify engines, alternators, transfer switches and other components necessary to production. We classify our products into three classes based on similar range of
power output and similar primary customer usage: residential power products; industrial and commercial power products; and other products. The following summary outlines our portfolio of products,
including their key attributes and customer applications.

Residential power products

Our automatic residential standby generators range in output from 8kW to 60kW, with manufacturer's suggested retail prices, or MSRPs,
from approximately $2,000 to $15,000.
They operate on either natural gas or liquid propane and are permanently installed with an automatic transfer switch, which we also manufacture. Our residential standby generators powered by
air-cooled engines range in outputs from 8kW to 20kW and are available in steel and aluminum enclosures. Our generators powered by liquid-cooled engines range in outputs from 22kW to 60kW,
including the Guardian® Series and the premium Quietsource® Series, with a quiet, low-speed engine and a standard aluminum enclosure.

We
provide portable generators fueled by gasoline that range in size from 800W to 17,500W. Following the expiration of a non-compete agreement in 2007, we expanded our
portable product offering to introduce portable generators below 12,500W. We currently have four portable product lines:



the GP
series, targeted at homeowners, ranging from 1,850W to 17,500W; the XG series, targeted at the premium homeowner markets, ranging from 4,000 to 10,000W; the XP series, targeted at the
professional contractor market, ranging from 4,000 to 8,000W; and the iX series, targeted at the recreational market, ranging from 800W to 2,000W.

Residential
power products comprised 55.2%, 57.9% and 63.0%, respectively, of total net sales in 2007, 2008 and 2009.

Industrial and commercial power products

Our light-commercial standby generators include a full range of affordable generators from 22kW to 150kW and related transfer switches,
providing three-phase power that is sufficient for most small and mid-sized businesses including grocery stores, convenience stores, restaurants, gas stations, pharmacies, retail banks,
small health care facilities. Our light-commercial generators run on natural gas or liquid propane, which avoids the fuel spillages, spoilage, environmental or odor concerns that are common with
traditional diesel units.

We
manufacture a broad line of standard and configured standby generators and related transfer switches for industrial applications. Our single-engine industrial generators range in
output from 10kW to 600kW with our Modular Power System (MPS) technology extending our product range up to 9mW. We offer four fuel options including diesel, natural gas, liquid propane or
Bi-Fuel™. Bi-Fuel™ generators run on both diesel and natural gas to allow our customers the advantage of multiple fuel sources and extended run times.

Our
MPS technology combines the power of several smaller generators to produce the output of a larger generator, providing our customers with redundancy and scalability in a
cost-effective manner. For larger industrial applications, our MPS products offer customers an efficient, affordable way to scale their standby power needs. By offering a series of smaller
Generac generators integrated with Generac's proprietary PowerManager control system, we provide a lower cost alternative to traditional large, single-engine generators. The MPS product line also
offers superior functionality due to the redundancy and scalability of the generator systems.

We
provide the telecommunications market our full range of generator systems, ranging from 20kW air-cooled generators to 3mW MPS.

Industrial
and commercial power products comprised 37.0%, 36.2% and 31.9%, respectively, of total net sales in 2007, 2008 and 2009.

Other power products

Our RV generators range in size from 3.4kW to 8.5kW and are available in gasoline, liquid propane or diesel fuel models. These
generators are sold directly to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, as well as aftermarket dealers. We also sell our proprietary air-cooled engines to third-party equipment
OEMs and sell after-market generator service parts to our dealers.

Other
power products comprise 7.8%, 5.9% and 5.1%, respectively, of total net sales in 2007, 2008 and 2009.

Distribution channels and customers

We distribute our product through several channels to increase awareness of our product categories and the Generac® brand,
and to ensure our products reach a broad customer base. This distribution network includes independent residential and industrial dealers, electrical wholesalers, national accounts, private label
arrangements, retailers, catalogs and e-commerce merchants. We believe our distribution network is a competitive advantage that we have strengthened over the last decade by



expanding
our network from our base of industrial dealers to include other channels of distribution as we have increased our product offerings. Our network is well balanced with no single sales
channel providing more than 24% of our sales and no customer providing more than 8% of our sales in 2009.

Our
dealer network, which is located principally in the United States and Canada, is the industry's largest network of independent generator contractors.

Our
residential dealer network sells, installs and services our residential and commercial products to end users. We have developed a number of proprietary dealer management systems to
evaluate, manage and incentivize our dealers, which we believe has improved the level of customer service provided to end customers. These systems include both technical and sales training programs,
under which we train new and existing dealers about our products, service and installation. We regularly perform market analyses to determine if a given market is either under-served or has poor
independent distributor representation. Within these locations, we selectively add distribution or invest resources in existing dealer support and training to improve dealer performance.

Our
industrial dealer network provides industrial and commercial end-users with on-going, local and nationwide product support. Our sales group works in
conjunction with our industrial dealers to ensure that national accounts receive engineering support, competitive pricing and nationwide service. We promote our industrial generators through the use
of traveling demonstrations, specifying engineer education events, dealer forums and training events. In recent years, we have been particularly focused on expanding our industrial dealer network in
Canada and Latin America in order to expand our international sales opportunities.

Our
electrical wholesaler network consists of selling branches of both national and local distribution houses. Our electrical wholesalers distribute our residential, light-commercial and
industrial generators and are a key introduction to the standby generator category for electrical contractors who may not be Generac dealers.

On
a selective basis, we have established arrangements with private label partners to provide residential, light-commercial and industrial generators. The partners include leading HVAC
equipment, electrical equipment and construction machinery companies, each of which provides access to incremental channels of distribution for our products. We have multi-year contracts
with certain of these partners with terms of between three and four years establishing the terms of these arrangements.

Our
retail distribution network includes thousands of locations, which includes regional and national home improvement chains, retailers, clubs, buying groups and farm supply stores.
This is supplemented with a number of catalogue and e-commerce retailers. This network sells our residential standby, portable and light-commercial generators. In some cases, we have
worked with our retail partners to create installation programs using our dealers to support the sale and installation of standby generator products sold at retail. We also use a combination of
advertising through our partners and other national retail accounts to promote our products within the network.

We
also sell generators and air-cooled engines directly to OEM manufacturers and after-market dealers for use in the RV and lawn and garden industries.

Manufacturing

Our excellence in manufacturing reflects our philosophy of high standards, continuous improvement and commitment to quality. Our
facilities showcase our advanced manufacturing techniques and demonstrate the effectiveness of lean manufacturing.

We
are focused on low-cost production techniques and technology and continually seek to reduce manufacturing costs while improving product quality. We deliver an affordable
product to our customers through our low-cost design philosophy, our foreign sourcing strategy, our scale, and



adherence
to lean manufacturing principles. We believe we have sufficient capacity to achieve our business goals for the foreseeable future without the need for significant expansion.

Our
product quality is essential to maintaining a leading market position. Incoming shipments from our suppliers are tested to ensure engineering specifications are met. Purchased
components are tested for quality at the supplier's factory and before entering production lines and are continuously tested
throughout the manufacturing process. Internal product and production audits are performed to ensure a quality product and process. We test finished products under a variety of simulated conditions at
each of our manufacturing facilities.

Research and development and intellectual property

Our primary focus on generators drives technological innovation, specialized engineering and manufacturing competencies. Research and
development is a core competency and includes a staff of over 100 engineers working on numerous active projects. Our sponsored research and development expense was $9.6 million,
$9.9 million and $10.8 million for the years ended December 2007, 2008 and 2009. Research and development is conducted at each of our manufacturing facilities and additionally at our
technical center in Suzhou, China with dedicated teams for each product line. Research and development is focused on developing new technologies and product enhancements as well as maintaining product
competitiveness by improving manufacturing costs, safety characteristics, reliability and performance while ensuring compliance with governmental standards. We have had over 30 years of
experience using natural gas engines and have developed specific expertise with fuel systems and emissions technology. In the residential market we have developed proprietary engines, cooling
packages, controls and fuel and emissions systems.

We
rely on a combination of patents and trademarks to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our commitment to research and development has resulted in a portfolio of
approximately 50 U.S. and international patents and patent applications. Our patents expire between June 2012 and January 2027 and protect certain features and technologies we have developed
for use in our products including fuel systems, air flow, electronics and controls, noise reduction and air-cooled engines. U.S. trademark registrations generally have a perpetual duration
if they are properly maintained and renewed. New U.S. patents that are issued generally have a life of 20 years from the date the patent application is initially filed. We believe the existence
of these patents and trademarks, along with our ongoing processes to register additional patents and trademarks, protect our intellectual property rights and enhance our competitive position. We also
use proprietary manufacturing processes that require customized equipment.

Suppliers of raw materials

Our primary raw material inputs are steel, copper and aluminum, all of which are purchased from third parties and, in many cases, as
part of machined or manufactured components. We have developed an extensive network of reliable, low-cost suppliers in the United States and abroad. In 2009, we sourced more than half of
our components from outside the United States.

Competition

The market for onsite generators is competitive. We face competition from a variety of large diversified industrial companies as well
as smaller generator manufacturers abroad. However, most of the traditional participants in the standby generator market compete on a more specialized basis, focused on specific applications within
their larger diversified product mix. We are the only significant market participant focused exclusively on standby and portable generators with broad capabilities across the residential, industrial
and light-commercial generator markets. We believe that our engineering



capabilities
and core focus on generators provide us with manufacturing flexibility and enable us to maintain a first-mover advantage over our competition for product innovation.

Our
competitors include Briggs & Stratton, Caterpillar, Cummins, Honda, Kohler, MTU (Katolight division), and Techtronics International (TTI). In the market for standby industrial
and commercial generators, our primary competitors are Caterpillar, Cummins, Kohler and MTU, most of which focus on the market for diesel generators as they are also diesel engine manufacturers. In
the market for residential standby generators, our primary competitors include Briggs & Stratton, Cummins (Onan division) and Kohler, which also have broad operations in other manufacturing
businesses. In the portable generator market, our primary competitors include Briggs & Stratton, Honda and Techtronics International (TTI), along with a number of smaller domestic and foreign
competitors.

There
are a number of other standby generator manufacturers located outside North America, but most supply their products mainly to their respective regional markets. In a continuously
evolving sector, we believe our size and broad capabilities make us well positioned to remain competitive. Furthermore, we view several of these international manufacturers as potential candidates for
future strategic partnerships.

We
compete primarily on the basis of brand reputation, quality, reliability, pricing, innovative features, breadth of product and product availability.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we had 1,354 employees (1,293 full time and 61 part-time and temporary employees). Of
those, 738 employees were directly involved in manufacturing at our manufacturing facilities.

We
have had an "open shop" bargaining agreement for the past 45 years. Our current agreement is with the Communication Workers of America, Local 5503. The current agreement, which
expires October 14, 2011, covers our Waukesha and Eagle facilities. Currently, 2% of our workforce is a member of a labor union. Our facility in Whitewater, Wisconsin is not unionized.

Regulation, including environmental matters

As a manufacturing company, our operations are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and
safety laws and regulations including those governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water, noise and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of
waste and other materials. In addition, our products are subject to various laws and regulations relating to, among other things, emissions and fuel requirements, as well as labeling and marketing.

Our
products are regulated by the EPA and CARB. These governing bodies continuously pass regulations that require us to meet more stringent emission standards. With the adoption of a
recent regulation covering stationary propane and natural gas-fueled generators, the EPA now regulates all products we produce for sale in the United States. New regulations could require
us to redesign our products and could affect market growth for our products. For example, the EPA has developed multiple phases of national emission standards for small air-cooled engines.
In 2008, the EPA adopted a proposed Phase III regulation that further reduces permitted exhaust emissions from small engines and also requires the engines and equipment in which engines are
used to meet new evaporative emission standards. The EPA's Phase III program requires the use of evaporative controls that must be phased in starting in 2009 and take full effect in 2011 for
Class II engines (225 cubic center displacement and larger) and 2012 for Class I engines (less than 225 cubic center displacement). The Phase III program's more stringent exhaust
emission requirements also apply starting in 2011 for Class II engines and 2012 for Class I engines. The Phase III standards are similar to the CARB's



Tier 3
emission standards which were fully phased in during fiscal year 2008. CARB's Tier 3 regulation required additional reductions to engine exhaust emissions as well as new controls
on evaporative emissions from small engines.

We
believe that our operations and our products are in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including environmental and workplace safety regulations. We are not
subject to any pending investigations, claims, or proceedings by any foreign, federal, state, or local governmental agency or administration that would materially impact our financial condition or our
results.

Segment information

We refer you to Note 2, "Significant Accounting Policies—Segment Reporting," to our consolidated financial
statements included in Item 8 of this annual report for financial information about our business segment and geographic areas.

Executive officers

The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers:

Name

Age

Position

Aaron Jagdfeld


Chief Executive Officer and Director

York A. Ragen


Chief Financial Officer

Dawn Tabat


Chief Operating Officer

Clement Feng


Senior Vice President, Marketing

Allen Gillette


Senior Vice President, Engineering

Roger Schaus, Jr.


Senior Vice President, Service Operations

Roger Pascavis


Senior Vice President, Operations

Terrence J. Dolan*


Senior Vice President, Sales

*

Mr. Dolan
commenced work on January 18, 2010.

Aaron Jagdfeld

has served as our Chief Executive Officer since September 30, 2008 and as a director since November 2006. Prior to
becoming Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jagdfeld worked for Generac for 15 years. He began his career in the finance department in 1994 and became our Chief Financial Officer in 2002. In
2007, he was appointed president and was responsible for sales, marketing, engineering and product development. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Jagdfeld worked in the audit practice of the
Milwaukee, Wisconsin office of Deloitte & Touche LLP. Mr. Jagdfeld holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting from the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater.

York A. Ragen

has served as our Chief Financial Officer since September 30, 2008. Prior to becoming Chief Financial Officer,
Mr. Ragen held Director of Finance and Vice President of Finance positions at Generac. Prior to joining Generac in 2005, Mr. Ragen was Vice President, Corporate Controller at
APW Ltd., a spin-off from Applied Power Inc., now known as Actuant Corporation. Mr. Ragen began his career in the Audit division of Arthur Andersen's Milwaukee office.
Mr. Ragen holds a Bachelor of Business Administration from the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater.

Dawn Tabat

has served as our Chief Operating Officer since 2002. Ms. Tabat joined Generac in 1972 and served as Personnel Manager
and Personnel Director before being promoted to Vice President of Human Resources in 1992. During this period, Ms. Tabat was responsible for creating the human resource function within Generac,
including recruiting, compensation, training and workforce relations. In her current position, Ms. Tabat oversees manufacturing, logistics, global supply chain, quality, safety, information
services and human resources.



Clement Feng

has served as our Chief Marketing Officer and Executive Vice President since 2007. Prior to joining
Generac, Mr. Feng was the Vice President of Marketing at Broan-NuTone from 2003 to 2007. From 2000-2003 Mr. Feng was the Vice President of Marketing for Vermont American, a
division of Robert Bosch Tool Corporation. From 1994 to 2000, Mr. Feng was the Director of Marketing at Mast Lock Company. Mr. Feng holds an M.B.A from the University of Chicago School
of Business, a B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Stanford University.

Allen Gillette

is our Senior Vice President of Engineering. Mr. Gillette joined Generac in 1998 and has served as Engineering
Manager, Director of Engineering and Vice President of Engineering. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Gillette was Manager of Engineering at Transamerica Delaval Enterprise Division, Chief
Engineer—High-Speed Engines at Ajax-Superior Division and Manager of Design & Development, Cooper-Bessemer Reciprocating Products Division.
Mr. Gillette holds an M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Purdue University and a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Gonzaga University.

Roger Schaus, Jr.

serves as our Senior Vice President of Service Operations. Mr. Schaus joined Generac in 1988 and has served as
Director of Manufacturing Services, Vice President of Manufacturing Services and Senior Vice President of Operations. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Schaus was a Manufacturing Area Manager for
Harley Davidson Motor Company in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin and a Plant Manager for Custom Products in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin. Mr. Schaus holds a B.S. in Agricultural Economics from the
University of Wisconsin, Madison.

Roger Pascavis

has served as our Senior Vice President of Operations since January 2008. Mr. Pascavis joined Generac in 1995 and
has served as Director of Materials and Vice President of Operations. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Pascavis was a Plant Manager for MTI in Waukesha, Wisconsin. Mr. Pascavis holds a B.S.
in Industrial Technology from the University of Wisconsin, Stout and an M.B.A. from Lake Forest Graduate School of Management.

Terrence J. Dolan

began serving as our Senior Vice President, Sales on January 18, 2010. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Dolan
was Senior Vice President of Business Development and Marketing at Boart Longyear, Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Ingersoll Rand, and Director of Strategic Accounts at Case Corporation.
Mr. Dolan holds a B.A. in Management and Communications from Concordia University.

Item 1A.    Risk Factors

You should carefully consider the following risks. These risks could materially affect our business, results of
operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any
forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under
"Forward-Looking Statements" and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Report.

Risk factors related to our business and industry

Demand for our products is significantly affected by unpredictable major power-outage events that can lead to substantial variations in, and uncertainties regarding, our
financial results from period to period.

Sales of our products are subject to consumer buying patterns, and demand for our products is affected by outage events, including
thunderstorms, hurricanes, ice storms and blackouts caused by grid reliability issues. Sustained periods without major power disruptions can lead to reduced consumer awareness of the benefits of
standby and portable generator products and can result in reduced sales and excess inventory. For example, in 2007, our net sales declined significantly from the prior year, which was driven in part
by the fact that the storm seasons in the two years leading up to and including



resulted in fewer power outages than in the prior years. The lack of major power-outage events can affect our net sales in the quarters following a given storm season. Unpredictable fluctuations
in demand are therefore part of managing our business, and these fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our net sales and profits.

Demand for our standby generators is significantly affected by durable goods spending by consumers and businesses and other macroeconomic conditions.

Our business is affected by general economic conditions, and uncertainty or adverse changes such as the recent downturn in worldwide
economic conditions and the impact of the credit crisis could lead to a significant decline in demand for our products and pressure to reduce our prices. Our sales of light-commercial and industrial
generators are affected by conditions in the non-residential construction sector and by the capital investment trends for small and large businesses and municipalities. For example, lower
capital spending by our industrial national accounts and other industrial and commercial customers caused a 9.9% decline in net sales to the industrial and commercial market in the year ended
December 31, 2009. If these businesses and municipalities cannot access credit markets or do not utilize discretionary funds to purchase our products as a result of the economy or other
factors, our business could suffer and our ability to realize benefits from our strategy of increasing sales in the light-commercial and industrial sectors through, among other things, our focus on
innovation and product development, including natural gas engine technology, could be adversely affected. In addition, consumer confidence and home remodeling expenditures have a significant impact on
sales of our residential products, and prolonged periods of weakness in consumer durable goods spending could have a material impact on our business. Typically, we do not have contracts with our
customers, and we cannot guarantee that our current customers will continue to purchase our products. If general economic conditions or consumer confidence were to worsen, or if the
non-residential construction sector or rate of capital investments were to continue to decline, our net sales and profits would likely be adversely affected.

Decreases in the availability, or increases in the cost, of raw materials and key components we use could materially reduce our earnings.

The principal raw materials that we use to produce our generators are steel, copper and aluminum. We also source a significant number
of component parts that we utilize to manufacture our generators from third parties. The prices of those raw materials and components are susceptible to significant fluctuations due to trends in
supply and demand, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, price controls, economic conditions and other unforeseen circumstances beyond our control. We do not have
long-term supply contracts in place to ensure the raw materials and components we use are available in necessary amounts or at fixed prices. If we are unable to mitigate raw material or
component price increases through product design improvements, price increases to our customers or hedging transactions, our profitability could be adversely affected. For example, in 2008, we
experienced a 4.8% decrease in gross margin percentage, partially due to increases in commodity prices, including steel, copper and aluminum. Also, our ability to continue to obtain materials and
components is subject to the continued reliability and viability of our suppliers, including in some cases, suppliers who are the sole source of important components. If we are unable to obtain
adequate, cost efficient or timely deliveries of required raw materials and components, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of products on a timely basis. This could cause us to lose
sales, incur additional costs, delay new product introductions or suffer harm to our reputation.



The industry in which we compete is highly competitive, and our failure to compete successfully could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.

We operate in markets that are highly competitive. Some of our competitors have established brands and are larger in size or are
divisions of large diversified companies and have substantially greater financial resources. Some of our competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower margins in order to compete with
us. In addition, we could face new competition from large international or domestic companies with established industrial brands that enter the generator market. Demand for our products may also be
affected by our ability to respond to changes in design and functionality, to respond to downward pricing pressure, and to provide shorter lead times for our products than our competitors. If we are
unable to respond successfully to these competitive pressures, we could lose market share, which could have an adverse impact on our results. For more information, see
"Item 1—Business—Competition."

Our industry is subject to technological change, and our failure to continue developing new and improved products and to bring these products rapidly to market could have an
adverse impact on our business.

New products, or refinements and improvements of existing products, may have technical failures, their introduction may be delayed,
they may have higher production costs than originally expected or they may not be accepted by our customers. If we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market high quality products in
line with technological advancements that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline and our operating results could be adversely affected.

We rely on independent dealers and distribution partners, and the loss of these dealers and distribution partners, or of any of our sales arrangements with significant
private label, telecommunications or retail customers, would adversely affect our business.

In addition to our direct sales force and manufacturer sales representatives, we depend on the services of independent distributors and
dealers to sell our products and provide service and aftermarket support to our customers. We also rely upon our distribution channels to drive awareness for our product categories and our brands. In
addition, we sell our products to end users through private label arrangements with leading HVAC equipment, electrical equipment and construction machinery companies, arrangements with top retailers
and our direct national accounts with telecommunications and industrial customers. Our distribution agreements and any contracts we have with large telecommunications, retail and other customers are
typically not exclusive, and many of the distributors and customers with whom we do business offer products and services of our competitors. Impairment of our relationships with our distributors,
dealers or large customers, loss of a substantial number of these distributors or dealers or of one or more large customers, or an increase in our distributors' or dealers' sales of our competitors'
products to our customers or of our large customers' purchases of our competitors' products could materially reduce our sales and profits. Also, our ability to successfully realize our growth strategy
is dependent in part on our ability to identify, attract and retain new distributors at all layers of our distribution platform, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in these efforts.

Our business could be negatively impacted if we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if third parties claim that we are in violation of their
intellectual property rights.

We view our intellectual property rights, including those relating to our Generac® brand name, fuel management systems and
MPS technology, as important assets. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing and
confidentiality agreements. These protections may not be adequate to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without our authorization, breaching any confidentiality



agreements
with us, copying or reverse engineering our products, or developing and marketing products that are substantially equivalent to or superior to our own. The unauthorized use of our
intellectual property by others could reduce our competitive advantage and harm our business. If it became necessary for us to litigate to protect these rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and
costly and we may not prevail. We cannot guarantee that any patents, issued or pending, will provide us with any competitive advantage or will not be challenged by third parties. Moreover, the
expiration of our patents may lead to increased competition with respect to certain products.

In
addition, we cannot be certain that we do not or will not infringe third parties' intellectual property rights. Any such claim, even if it is without merit, may be expensive and
time-consuming to defend, subject us to damages, cause us to cease making, using or selling certain products that incorporate the disputed intellectual property, require us to redesign our
products, divert management time and attention and/or require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements. Furthermore, in connection with our sale of Generac Portable Products to the
Beacon Group in 1998, we granted the Beacon Group an exclusive perpetual license for the use of the "Generac Portable Products" trademark in connection with the manufacture and sale of certain engine
driven consumer products. This perpetual license was eventually transferred to Briggs and Stratton (Briggs) when the Beacon Group sold that business to Briggs. Currently, this trademark is not being
used in commerce. However, in the event that the Beacon Group or Briggs use this trademark in the future, we could suffer competitive confusion and our business could be negatively impacted.

Our operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and non-compliance with or liabilities under such laws and
regulations could result in substantial costs, fines, sanctions and claims.

Our operations are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations
including those governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water, noise, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials. In
addition, under federal and state environmental laws, we could be required to investigate, remediate and/or monitor the effects of the release or disposal of
materials both at sites associated with past and present operations and at third-party sites where wastes generated by our operations were disposed. This liability may be imposed retroactively and
whether or not we caused, or had any knowledge of, the existence of these materials and may result in our paying more than our fair share of the related costs. Violations of or liabilities under such
laws and regulations could result in substantial costs, fines and civil or criminal proceedings or personal injury and workers' compensation claims.

Our products are subject to substantial government regulation.

Our products are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing, among other things, emissions and noise,
including standards imposed by the federal Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, state regulatory agencies, such as the California Air Resources Board, or CARB, and other regulatory agencies around
the world. These laws are constantly evolving and many are becoming increasingly stringent. Changes in applicable laws or regulations, or in the enforcement thereof, could require us to redesign our
products and could adversely affect our business or financial condition in the future. Developing and marketing products to meet such new requirements could result in substantial additional costs that
may be difficult to recover in some markets. In some cases, we may be required to modify our projects or develop new products to comply with new regulations, particularly those relating to air
emissions. For example, we were required to modify our natural gas and liquid propane-fueled liquid-cooled engines and generators by January 1, 2009 to comply with emissions standards in the
United States. While we have been able to meet previous deadlines, failure to comply with other existing and future regulatory standards could adversely affect our position in the markets we serve.



We may incur costs and liabilities as a result of product liability claims.

We face a risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury
or other damage. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or obtain insurance that
will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for long periods of time,
regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful product liability defense could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we believe our
business depends on the strong brand reputation we have developed. If our reputation is damaged, we may face difficulty in maintaining our market share and pricing with respect to some of our
products, which could reduce our sales and profitability.

The loss of any key members of our senior management team or key employees could disrupt our operations and harm our business.

Our success depends, in part, on the efforts of certain key individuals, including the members of our senior management team, who have
significant experience in the generator industry. If, for any reason, our senior executives do not continue to be active in management, or if our key employees leave our company, our business,
financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to continue to attract these individuals at reasonable compensation levels could have a material adverse effect on our
business, liquidity and results of operations. Although we do not anticipate that we will have to replace any of these individuals in the near future, the loss of the services of any of our key
employees could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business.

Disruptions caused by labor disputes or organized labor activities could harm our business.

Currently, 2% of our workforce is a member of a labor union. In addition, we may from time to time experience union organizing
activities in our non-union facilities. Disputes with the current labor union or new union organizing activities could lead to work slowdowns or stoppages and make it difficult or
impossible for us to meet scheduled delivery times for product shipments to our customers, which could result in loss of business. In addition, union activity could result in higher labor costs, which
could harm our financial condition, results of operations and competitive position.

We may experience material disruptions to our manufacturing operations.

While we seek to operate our facilities in compliance with applicable rules and regulations and take measures to minimize the risks of
disruption at our facilities, a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our financial
results. Any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events,
including:

•

equipment or information technology infrastructure failure;

•

disruptions in the transportation infrastructure including roads, bridges, railroad tracks;

•

fires, floods, earthquakes, or other catastrophes; and

•

other operational problems.

In
addition, all of our manufacturing and production facilities are located in Wisconsin within a 30-mile radius. We could experience prolonged periods of reduced production
due to unforeseen events occurring in or around our manufacturing facilities in Wisconsin. In the event of a business interruption



at
our Wisconsin facilities, we may be unable to shift manufacturing capabilities to alternate locations, accept materials from suppliers or meet customer shipment needs, among other severe
consequences. Such an event could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of our operations.

A significant portion of our purchased components are sourced in foreign countries, exposing us to additional risks that may not exist in the United States.

We source a significant portion of our purchased components overseas, primarily in Asia. Our international sourcing subjects us to a
number of potential risks in addition to the risks associated with third-party sourcing generally. Such risks include:

•

inflation or changes in political and economic conditions;

•

unstable regulatory environments;

•

changes in import and export duties;

•

domestic and foreign customs and tariffs;

•

currency rate fluctuations;

•

trade restrictions;

•

labor unrest;

•

logistical and communications challenges; and

•

other restraints and burdensome taxes.

These
factors may have an adverse effect on our ability to source our purchased components overseas. In particular, if the U.S. dollar were to depreciate significantly against the
currencies in which we purchase raw materials from foreign suppliers, our cost of goods sold could increase materially, which would adversely affect our results of operations.

As a U.S. corporation that sources components in foreign countries, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A determination that we violated this act may affect
our business and operations adversely.

As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which
generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Any determination that we have violated
the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows.

We have significant tax assets, usage of which may be subject to limitations in the future.

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $161.8 million of net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income
tax purposes. Any subsequent accumulations of common stock ownership leading to a change of control under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, including through sales of stock
by large stockholders, all of which are out of our control, could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future federal income tax liabilities.



Our total assets include goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles. If we determine these have become impaired in the future, net income could be materially adversely
affected.

Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. Indefinite-lived
intangibles are comprised of certain trade names. At December 31, 2009, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangibles totaled $665.9 million, most of which arose from the CCMP
Transactions. We review goodwill and other intangibles at least annually for impairment and any excess in carrying value over the estimated fair value is charged to the results of operations. A
reduction in net income resulting from the write-down or impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. For
example, in October 2008, due to an increase in our weighted average cost of capital and lower comparable public company market values resulting from weakening economic conditions, we determined that
an impairment of goodwill existed and recorded a non-cash charge of $503.2 million in 2008.

Goodwill
and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. In accordance with FASB ASC (Accounting Standards Codification) Topic
350-20, goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles are reviewed at least annually for impairment and definite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Future impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of the acquired business or product
line, adverse market
conditions and changes in the competitive landscape, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business or product line, and a
variety of other circumstances. The amount of any impairment is recorded as a charge to the statement of operations. We may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future
determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for details.

We may need additional capital to finance our growth strategy or to refinance our existing credit facilities, and we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms, or at
all, which may limit our ability to grow.

We may require additional financing to expand our business. Financing may not be available to us or may be available to us only on
terms that are not favorable. The terms of our senior secured credit facilities limit our ability to incur additional debt. In addition, economic conditions, including any further downturn or crisis
in the credit markets, could impact our ability to finance our growth on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds or obtain capital on acceptable terms, we may have to
delay, modify or abandon some or all of our growth strategies. Our revolving credit facility matures in November 2012 and our first lien term loan facility matures in November 2013. If we are unable
to refinance these facilities on acceptable terms, our liquidity could be adversely affected.

We are unable to determine the specific impact of changes in selling prices or changes in volumes of our products on our net sales.

Because of the wide range of products that we sell, the level of customization for many of our products, the frequent rollout of new
products and the fact that we do not apply pricing changes uniformly across our entire portfolio of products, we are unable to determine with specificity the effect of volume changes or changes in
selling prices on our net sales.



Risks related to our common stock

We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.

We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock. We intend to retain all future earnings for
the operation and expansion of our business and the repayment of outstanding debt. In addition, the terms of our senior secured credit facilities limit our ability to pay dividends on our common
stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be stockholders' sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. While we may change this policy at some point in the future,
we cannot assure stockholders that we will make such a change. See "Item 5—Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities—Dividends."

Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline.

If our stockholders prior to the initial public offering sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market
price of our common stock could decline. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell additional equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 29,
2010, we have 67,529,290 shares of our common stock outstanding.

Subject
to lock-up agreements entered into in connection with our initial public offering, 46,372,541 restricted securities may be sold into the public market in the future
without registration under the Securities Act to the extent permitted under Rule 144. All of these restricted securities will be eligible for sale under Rule 144 following expiration of
the lock-up agreements described above subject to limitations on sales by affiliates. In addition, commencing 180 days after the date of our initial public offering
(i.e., August 9, 2010), certain stockholders holding 45,509,752 outstanding shares of these restricted securities will have registration rights which could allow those holders to sell
their shares freely through a future registration statement filed under the Securities Act.

In
addition, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register an aggregate of 6,637,835 shares of our common stock reserved for
issuance under our Omnibus Plan, including an aggregate of 4,797,753 shares that were granted as non-vested (restricted) stock, shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options and
shares granted to directors in connection with our initial public offering. We may increase the number of shares registered for this purpose at any time. Subject to any restrictions imposed on the
restricted shares and options granted under our Omnibus Plan, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 will be available for sale into the public markets
subject to the 180-day lock-up agreements referred to above.

If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock or if our
results of operations do not meet their expectations, our common stock price and trading volume could decline.

The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish
about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn
could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade recommendations regarding our stock, or if our results of operations do not
meet their expectations, our stock price could decline and such decline could be material.



As a public company, we are required to meet periodic reporting requirements under the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, rules and regulations. Complying with
federal securities laws as a public company is expensive and we will incur significant time and expense enhancing, documenting, testing and certifying our internal control over financial reporting.
Any deficiencies in our financial reporting or internal controls could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our common stock.

SEC rules require that, as a publicly-traded company, we file periodic reports containing our financial statements within a specified
time following the completion of quarterly and annual periods. Prior to our initial public offering, we had not been required to comply with SEC requirements to have our financial statements completed
and reviewed or audited within a specified time and, as such, we may experience difficulty in meeting the SEC's reporting requirements. Any failure by us to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a
timely manner could harm our reputation and reduce the trading price of our common stock.

As
a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as compliance with other rules of the SEC and the
New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Furthermore, SEC rules require that our
chief executive officer and chief financial officer periodically certify the existence and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting
firm will be required, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending on December 31, 2010, to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control
over financial reporting. This process, which we have not undertaken in the past, will require significant documentation of policies, procedures and systems, review of that documentation by our
internal accounting staff and our outside auditors and testing of our internal control over financial reporting by our internal accounting staff. This process will involve considerable time and
expense, may strain our internal resources and have an adverse impact on our operating costs. We may experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and outside auditor fees during the
implementation of these changes and thereafter.

During
the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies that would have to be remediated to satisfy the SEC rules for certification of our effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting. As a consequence, we may have to disclose in periodic reports we file with the SEC material weaknesses in our system of internal controls. The existence of a material weakness
would preclude management from concluding that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and would preclude our independent auditors from issuing an unqualified opinion that our
internal control over financial reporting is effective. In addition, disclosures of this type in our SEC reports could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting and may negatively
affect the trading price of our common stock. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary to produce reliable financial reports and to prevent fraud. If we have deficiencies in our disclosure
controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting, it may negatively impact our business, results of operations and reputation.

Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws could prohibit a change of control that our
stockholders may favor and could negatively affect our stock price.

Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult and expensive
for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could
adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions may also



prevent
or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and
by-laws:

•

permit our board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as they determine, without stockholder approval;

•

provide that only one-third of the members of the board are elected at each stockholders meeting and prohibit
removal without cause;

•

require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations; and

•

contain limitations on convening stockholder meetings.

These
provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation and could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely
affect the market price of our common stock.

Risks related to our capital structure

We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and
make payments on our indebtedness.

We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had total indebtedness of $1,091.5 million.
While we reduced this amount of debt after December 31, 2009 through the use of the proceeds of our IPO and of cash on hand (as discussed elsewhere in this report under
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"), we still have a substantial amount of indebtedness. After the repayment of debt
using the proceeds of the IPO and available cash on-hand, we had total indebtedness of $731.4 million as of March 19, 2010. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases
the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness,
combined with
our lease and other financial obligations and contractual commitments could have other important consequences. For example, it could:

•

make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including financial and other
restrictive covenants, which could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness;

•

make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in
government regulation;

•

require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby
reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;

•

limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;

•

place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and

•

limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service
requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes.

Any
of the above-listed factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, our interest expense could
increase if interest rates increase because debt under our senior secured credit facilities bears interest at a variable rate. If we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be
required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do.



The terms of our senior secured credit facilities restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take
certain actions.

Our senior secured credit facilities contain, and any future indebtedness of ours or our subsidiaries would likely contain, a number of
restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, including restrictions on our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best
long-term interests. Our senior secured credit facilities include a financial covenant that requires us not to exceed a maximum total leverage ratio.

As
of December 31, 2009, Generac Power Systems was required to maintain a maximum leverage ratio of 6.75 to 1.00 and 7.00 to 1.00 under the first and second lien credit
facilities, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, Generac Power Systems' leverage ratio was 5.99 to 1.00 (prior to giving effect to the reduction of debt through the use of proceeds of our IPO
and application of cash on hand, each of which took place after December 31, 2009 and are discussed in this report under "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations"). After giving effect to the reduction of debt using the proceeds from the IPO and available cash on-hand, Generac Power Systems' leverage
ratio was 4.59 pro forma as of December 31, 2009. The maximum leverage ratio decreases over time under both facilities. The more restrictive of the facilities is the first lien credit facility,
which requires Generac Power Systems to have a leverage ratio of no greater than 6.75 to 1.00 in the fourth quarter of 2009 and in the first quarter of 2010, 6.50 to 1.00 in the second quarter of
2010, 6.25 to 1.00 in the third quarter of 2010, 5.75 to 1.00 in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011, 5.50 to 1.00 in the second quarter of 2011, 5.25 to 1.00 in the third quarter
of 2011 and 4.75 to 1.00 in the fourth quarter of 2011 and thereafter. Failure to comply with this covenant would result in an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities unless waived
by our lenders.

Our
senior secured credit facilities require us to use a portion of excess cash flow and proceeds of certain asset sales that are not reinvested in our business and other dispositions to
repay indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities.

Our
senior secured credit facilities also include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to:

•

incur liens;

•

incur or assume additional debt or guarantees or issue preferred stock;

•

pay dividends, or make redemptions and repurchases, with respect to capital stock;

•

prepay, or make redemptions and repurchases of, subordinated debt;

•

make loans and investments;

•

make capital expenditures;

•

engage in mergers, acquisitions, asset sales, sale/leaseback transactions and transactions with affiliates;

•

change the business conducted by us or our subsidiaries; and

•

amend the terms of subordinated debt.

The
operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our senior secured credit facilities and any future financing agreements may adversely affect our ability to finance future
operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. A breach of any of the restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facilities would result in a default under our senior
secured credit facilities. If any such default occurs, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other
fees, to be immediately due and payable, or enforce their security interest, any of which would result in an event of default. The lenders



will
also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings.

At
September 30, 2008, we failed to satisfy the leverage ratio in our senior secured credit facilities. This default was cured by an equity contribution from affiliates of CCMP.
However, CCMP and its affiliates are under no obligation to provide additional funds to us in the event of future covenant defaults.

Our principal stockholder continues to have substantial control over us.

As of March 18, 2010, after giving effect to the IPO and underwriters option exercise, affiliates of CCMP collectively
beneficially own approximately 58.4% and affiliates of Unitas collectively beneficially own approximately 4.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a consequence, CCMP or its affiliates are able to
exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over our management and affairs and will control matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, a merger,
consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and any other significant transaction. The interests of this stockholder may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of
our other stockholders. For instance, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could
depress our stock price.

Because
affiliates of CCMP control more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the NYSE's Listed Company Manual. Under the
NYSE's Listed Company Manual, a controlled company may elect not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including requirements that: (1) a majority of the board of
directors consist of independent directors; (2) compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the board of directors by a majority of its independent directors or by a compensation
committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and (3) director nominees be selected or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or by a nominating committee
composed solely of independent directors. Because we have taken advantage of the controlled company exemption to certain NYSE corporate
governance requirements, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.

Conflicts of interest may arise because some of our directors are principals of our principal stockholder.

Representatives of CCMP and its affiliates occupy a majority of the seats on our board of directors. CCMP or its affiliates could
invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us or companies in which CCMP or its affiliates are currently invested may already compete with us. As a result of these relationships, when
conflicts arise between the interests of CCMP or its affiliates and the interests of our stockholders, these directors may not be disinterested. The representatives of CCMP and its affiliates on our
board of directors, by the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, are not required to offer us any transaction opportunity of which they become aware and could take any such
opportunity for themselves or offer it to other companies in which they have an investment, unless such opportunity is expressly offered to them solely in their capacity as our directors.

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2.    Properties

We own and operate three manufacturing facilities located in Eagle, Wisconsin, Waukesha, Wisconsin and Whitewater, Wisconsin, which
total approximately 800,000 square feet. We also operate a dealer training center at our Eagle, Wisconsin facility, which allows us to train new industrial and



residential
dealers on the service and installation of our products and provide existing dealers with training on product innovations.

We
own a distribution center totaling approximately 200,000 square feet and an undeveloped lot of approximately 18.1 acres in Whitewater, Wisconsin. We also have third party logistics
inventory warehouses in the United States that accommodate the rapid response requirements of our customers.

The
following table shows the location and activities of our operations:

Location

Owned /

Leased

Square

Footage

Activities

Manufacturing:

Waukesha, WI

Owned

264,000

Corporate headquarters and manufacturing of liquid-cooled generators and transfer switches

Eagle, WI

Owned

236,000

Manufacturing of liquid-cooled generators and metal fabrication

Eagle, WI

Owned

6,000

Training facility

Whitewater, WI

Owned

295,000

Manufacturing of vertically integrated engines and generators

Distribution:

Whitewater, WI

Owned

196,000

Distribution center

Other:

Maquoketa, IA

Owned

137,000

Inventory warehouse and rental property

All
of our properties are subject to mortgages under our senior secured credit facilities.

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings

From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings primarily involving product liability and employment matters and general
commercial disputes arising in the ordinary course of our business. As of December 31, 2009, we believe that there is no litigation pending that would have a material effect on our results of
operations or financial condition.

Item 4.    (Removed and Reserved)

PART II

Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Price Range of Common Stock

Shares of our common stock are traded on the NYSE under the symbol "GNRC." Our shares have only been publicly traded since
February 11, 2010; as a result, we have not set forth quarterly information with respect to the high and low prices for our common stock.

Holders

The number of stockholders of record of our common stock as of March 16, 2010 was 2,276.

Dividends

We did not declare or pay cash dividends in 2009. We currently do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock. However, in
the future, subject to factors such as general economic and business conditions, our financial condition and results of operations, our capital requirements, our future liquidity and capitalization
and such other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant, we may change this policy and choose to pay dividends. Our ability to pay dividends on our common



stock
is currently restricted by the terms of our senior secured credit facilities and may be further restricted by any future indebtedness we incur. Our business is conducted through our principal
operating subsidiary, Generac Power Systems. Dividends from, and cash generated by Generac Power Systems will be our principal sources of cash to repay indebtedness, fund operations and pay dividends.
Accordingly, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is dependent on the earnings and distributions of funds from Generac Power Systems.

Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers

None.

Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities

In September 2009, we sold 2,000 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock to certain stockholders for an aggregate purchase price
of $20.0 million. The September 2009 issuance of Series A Preferred Stock was the consummation of a contractual preemptive right exercised in September 2009 that was triggered by our
sales of shares to affiliates of CCMP beginning in late 2008 and ending in July 2009. Each of the purchasers of these shares of Series A Preferred Stock had a pre-existing
relationship with us as a stockholder (and, in many cases, also as an employee) and had a contractual right to acquire such shares pursuant to the Shareholders Agreement entered into at the time of
the CCMP transaction in 2006. The offering and sale of these shares of preferred stock did not involve any solicitation beyond the parties to the Shareholders Agreement. Each of these transactions was
exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act, as it was a transaction by an issuer that did not involve a public offering of securities. There were no underwriters
employed in connection with the transaction, and the recipients of securities in the transaction represented their intention to acquire the securities for investment only and not with a view to any
distribution thereof. Appropriate legends were affixed to the share certificates and other instruments issued in the transaction. All purchasers were given the opportunity to ask questions and receive
answers from our representatives concerning our business and financial affairs. Each of the purchasers that were employees of the registrant had access to such information through their employment
with the registrant. Based on the foregoing, and the fact that the transaction giving rise to the exercise of the preemptive right, as well as the exercise of preemptive rights themselves, took place
well in advance and was independent of the filing of the Registration Statement for our initial public offering, we concluded that these transactions were exempt from registration.

Use of Proceeds from Registered Securities

On February 17, 2010, we completed our initial public offering of 18,750,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $13.00 per
share. The shares were registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, on a registration statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333- 162590). The
registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on February 10, 2010. J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., BofA Merrill Lynch, and Robert W.
Baird & Co. Incorporated served as joint book running managers for the initial public offering.

The
net proceeds to us from the initial sale of the shares, after deducting the underwriting discount and total expenses related to the offering, were approximately
$224.1 million. The underwriters received a discount of $0.8125 per share on the shares, for a total underwriting discount of approximately $15.2 million. Total expenses related to the
offering were approximately $4.5 million. Immediately after the completion of our initial public offering, we used all of the net proceeds to fully pay down our second lien term loan and a
portion of our first lien term loan.

On
March 18, 2010, the underwriters exercised their option and purchased an additional 1,950,500 shares of our common stock from us. Net proceeds received from the option exercise
were $23.8 million and are to be used for general corporate purposes, including debt repayment.



Item 6.    Selected Financial Data

The following table sets forth our selected historical consolidated financial data for the periods and at the dates indicated. The
selected historical consolidated financial data for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this
annual report. The selected historical consolidated financial data for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the period from January 1, 2006 through November 10, 2006 (Predecessor
Period) and the period from November 11, 2006 through December 31, 2006 (Successor Period) are derived from our historical financial statements not included in this annual report.

In
November 2006, affiliates of CCMP, together with affiliates of Unitas and members of our management, formed Generac Holdings Inc. and, through Generac Holdings Inc., acquired all of
the capital stock of Generac Power Systems. See "Item 1—Business—History—CCMP transactions." Generac in all periods prior to November 2006 is referred to as
"Predecessor," and in all periods including and after such date is referred to as "Successor." The consolidated financial statements for all Successor periods may not be comparable to those of the
Predecessor Period.

The
results indicated below and elsewhere in this annual report are not necessarily indicative of our future performance. You should read this information together with
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8
of this annual report.



Predecessor

Successor

(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Year ended

December 31,

2005(1)

Period from

January 1,

2006 through

November 10,


Period from

November 11,

2006 through

December 31,


Year ended

December 31,


Year ended

December 31,


Year ended

December 31,


Statement of operations data:

Net sales

$

518,763

$

606,249

$

74,110

$

555,705

$

574,229

$

588,248

Costs of goods sold

333,739

371,425

55,105

333,428

372,199

352,398

Gross profit

185,024

234,824

19,005

222,277

202,030

235,850

Operating expenses:

Selling and service

41,777

45,800

5,279

52,652

57,449

59,823

Research and development

9,903

9,141

1,168

9,606

9,925

10,842

General and administrative

11,564

12,631

1,695

17,581

15,869

14,713

Amortization of intangibles(2)

—

—

8,576

47,602

47,602

51,960

Transaction-related expenses(3)

—

149,792

—

—

—

—

Goodwill and trade name impairment charge(4)

—

—

—

—

583,486

—

Total operating expenses

63,244

217,364

16,718

127,441

714,331

137,338

Income (loss) from operations

121,780

17,460

2,287

94,836

(512,301

)

98,512

Other income (expense):

Interest expense

(269

)

(673

)

(18,354

)

(125,366

)

(108,022

)

(70,862

)

Gain on extinguishment of debt(5)

—

—

—

18,759

65,385

14,745

Investment income


1,571


2,682


2,205

Other, net

(335

)

(52

)

(192

)

(1,196

)

(1,217

)

(1,206

)

Total other income (expense), net



(18,244

)

(105,121

)

(43,254

)

(55,118

)

Income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes

122,017

18,306

(15,957

)

(10,285

)

(555,555

)

43,394

Provision (benefit) for income taxes


5,519

—

(571

)



Net income (loss)(6)

$

121,291

$

12,787

$

(15,957

)

$

(9,714

)

$

(555,955

)

$

43,055

Income (loss) per share:

Class A Common Stock(7)

n/m

n/m

(10,106

)

(34,994

)

(357,628

)

(41,111

)

Class B Common Stock(7)

n/m

n/m


3,462

3,780

4,171

Pro forma earnings (loss) per common share(8)

n/m

n/m

n/m

n/m

n/m

$

1.00

Statement of cash flows data:

Depreciation

5,046

4,654


6,181

7,168

7,715

Amortization

—


8,576

47,602

47,602

51,960

Expenditures for property and equipment

(7,029

)

(6,225

)

(720

)

(13,191

)

(5,186

)

(4,525

)

Other financial data:

Adjusted EBITDA(9)

126,983

174,303

19,042

158,148

129,858

159,087



Predecessor

Successor

(Dollars in thousands)

As of

December 31,


As of

December 31,


As of

December 31,


As of

December 31,


As of

December 31,


Balance sheet data:

Current assets

$

180,954

$

226,760

$

217,750

$

274,997

$

345,017

Property, plant and equipment, net

53,964

72,087

78,982

76,674

73,374

Goodwill

—

847,442

1,029,068

525,875

525,875

Other intangibles and other assets

4,024

817,720

582,859

448,668

392,977

Total assets

$

238,942

$

1,964,009

$

1,908,659

$

1,326,214

$

1,337,243

Total current liabilities

$

84,710

$

112,179

$

94,690

$

127,981

$

131,971

Long-term debt, less current portion

4,800

1,370,500

1,280,750

1,121,437

1,052,463

Other long-term liabilities

7,219

10,436

27,439

43,539

17,418

Redeemable stock(10)

—

685,667

747,070

843,451

878,205

Total liabilities, redeemable stock and stockholders' equity(10)

$

238,942

$

1,964,009

$

1,908,659

$

1,326,214

$

1,337,243

(1)

Our
financial data for the year ended December 31, 2005 were derived from consolidated financial statements of Generac Power Systems as of and for
the year ended December 31, 2005 that were audited by another audit firm whose report dated March 31, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. These results
agree to those audited financial statements, except for adjustment for an accounting change related to revenue recognition such that the 2005 period is in compliance with SAB No. 104 and
consistent with all other periods presented.

(2)

Our
amortization of intangibles expenses include the straight-line amortization of customer lists, patents and other finite-lived intangibles
assets.

(3)

Transaction-related
expenses incurred by the Predecessor, which primarily related to the settlement of the employee share appreciation program in connection
with the CCMP Transactions.

(4)

As
of October 31, 2008, as a result of our annual goodwill and trade names impairment test, we determined that an impairment of goodwill and trade
names existed, and we recognized a non-cash charge of $583.5 million in 2008.

(5)

During
2007, affiliates of CCMP acquired $80.3 million principal amount of second lien term loans for approximately $60.0 million. CCMP's
affiliates exchanged this debt for additional shares of our Class B Common Stock. The fair value of the shares exchanged was $60.0 million. We recorded this transaction as additional
Class B Common Stock of $60.0 million based on the fair value of the debt contributed by CCMP's affiliates, which approximated the fair value of shares exchanged. The debt was held in
treasury at face value. Consequently, we recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of $18.8 million, which includes a write-off of deferred financing fees and other closing costs in
the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007.

During
2008, affiliates of CCMP acquired $148.9 million principal amount of second lien term loans for approximately
$81.1 million. CCMP's affiliates exchanged this debt for additional shares of our Class B Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock. The fair value of the shares exchanged was
$81.1 million. We recorded this transaction as Series A Preferred Stock of $62.9 million and Class B Common Stock of $18.2 million based on the fair value of the
debt contributed by CCMP's affiliates, which approximated the fair value of shares exchanged. The debt was held in treasury at face value. Consequently, we recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of
$65.4 million, which includes a write-off of deferred financing fees and other closing costs in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2008.

During
2009, affiliates of CCMP acquired $9.9 million principal amount of first lien term loans and $20.0 million principal amount
of second lien term loans for approximately $14.8 million. CCMP's affiliates exchanged this debt for 1,475.4596 shares of Series A Preferred Stock. The fair value of the shares exchanged
was $14.8 million. We recorded this transaction as additional Series A Preferred Stock of $14.8 million based on the fair value of the debt contributed by CCMP's affiliates, which
approximated the fair value of shares exchanged. The debt was held in treasury at face value. Consequently, we recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of $14.7 million, which includes a
write-off of deferred financing fees and other closing costs, in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009.

(6)

Includes,
for the year ended December 31, 2005, a $0.4 million non-cash charge primarily related to losses on the sale of
equipment, a $1.3 million cash gain related to adjustments to a deferred compensation plan and $0.5 million related to employee severance costs.

(7)

n/m—Earnings
per share for the Predecessor has not been presented since it is not meaningful due to changes in our equity structure that
resulted from the CCMP Transactions. For Successor period, earnings per share reflects the impact of the reverse stock split which occurred immediately prior to the initial public offering as
discussed in Notes 1 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report.



(8)

Represents
earnings per common share after giving effect to the Corporate Reorganization (as defined above, and discussed below in
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Corporate reorganization").

(9)

Adjusted
EBITDA represents net income (loss) before interest expense, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as further adjusted for the other items
reflected in the reconciliation table set forth below. This presentation is substantially consistent with the presentation used in our senior secured credit facilities (Covenant EBITDA), except that
we do not give effect to certain additional adjustments that are permitted under those facilities which, if included, would increase the amount reflected in this table. For a description of the
additional adjustments permitted for Covenant EBITDA under our senior secured credit facilities, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations—Liquidity and capital resources—Senior secured credit facilities—Covenant compliance."

We
view Adjusted EBITDA as a key measure of our performance. We present Adjusted EBITDA not only due to its importance for purposes of our
senior secured credit facilities but also because it assists us in comparing our performance across reporting periods on a consistent basis because it excludes items that we do not believe are
indicative of our core operating performance. Our management uses Adjusted EBITDA:

•

for planning purposes, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and developing and refining our internal
projections for future periods;

•

to allocate resources to enhance the financial performance of our business;

•

as a benchmark for the determination of the bonus component of compensation for our senior executives under our management
incentive plan, as described further in our 2010 Proxy Statement;

•

to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies and as a supplemental tool in evaluating our performance against
our budget for each period; and

•

in communications with our board of directors and investors concerning our financial performance.

We
believe Adjusted EBITDA is used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of our company. Management
believes that the disclosure of Adjusted EBITDA offers an additional financial metric that, when coupled with U.S. GAAP results and the reconciliation to U.S. GAAP results, provides a
more complete understanding of our results of operations and the factors and trends affecting our business. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors for the following
reasons:

•

Adjusted EBITDA and similar non-GAAP measures are widely used by investors to measure a company's operating
performance without regard to items that can vary substantially from company to company depending upon financing and accounting methods, book values of assets, tax jurisdictions, capital structures
and the methods by which assets were acquired;

•

Investors can use Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure to evaluate the overall operating performance of our company,
including our ability to service our debt and other cash needs; and

•

by comparing our Adjusted EBITDA in different historical periods, our investors can evaluate our operating performance
excluding the impact of items described below.

The
adjustments included in the reconciliation table listed below are provided for under our senior secured credit facilities (except where
noted in footnote (h) below) and also are presented to illustrate the operating performance of our business in a manner consistent with the presentation used by our management and board of
directors. These adjustments eliminate the impact of a number of items that:

•

we do not consider indicative of our ongoing operating performance, such as non-cash impairment and other
charges, transaction costs relating to the CCMP Transactions and to repurchases of our debt by affiliates of CCMP, non-cash gains relating to the retirement of debt, severance costs and
other restructuring-related business optimization expenses;

•

we believe to be akin to, or associated with, interest expense, such as administrative agent fees, revolving credit
facility commitment fees and letter of credit fees; or

•

were eliminated following the consummation of our initial public offering, such as sponsor fees.

We
explain in more detail in footnotes (a) through (h) below why we believe these adjustments are useful in calculating Adjusted
EBITDA as a measure of our operating performance.

Adjusted
EBITDA does not represent, and should not be a substitute for, net income or cash flows from operations as determined in accordance
with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation, or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under
U.S. GAAP. Some of the limitations are:

•

Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect our cash expenditures, or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual
commitments;

•

Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs;



•

Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect the significant interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest
or principal payments, on our debt;

•

although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will
often have to be replaced in the future, and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements;

•

several of the adjustments that we use in calculating Adjusted EBITDA, such as non-cash impairment charges,
while not involving cash expense, do have a negative impact on the value our assets as reflected in our consolidated balance sheet prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP;

•

the adjustments for business optimization expenses, which we believe are appropriate for the reasons set out in
note (d) below, represent costs associated with severance and other items which are reflected in operating expenses and income (loss) from continuing operations in our consolidated statements
of operations prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP; and

•

other companies may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure.

Furthermore,
as noted above, one of our uses of Adjusted EBITDA is as a benchmark for determining elements of compensation for our senior
executives. At the same time, some or all of these senior executives have responsibility for monitoring our financial results generally, including the items that are included as adjustments in
calculating Adjusted EBITDA (subject ultimately to review by our board of directors in the context of the board's review of our quarterly financial statements). While many of the adjustments (for
example, transaction costs and credit facility fees and sponsor fees), involve mathematical application of items reflected in our financial statements, others (such as business optimization
adjustments) involve a degree of judgment and discretion. While we believe that all of these adjustments are appropriate, and while the quarterly calculations are subject to review by our board of
directors in the context of the board's review of our quarterly financial statements and certification by our chief financial officer in a compliance certificate provided to the lenders under our
senior secured credit facilities, this discretion may be viewed as an additional limitation on the use of Adjusted EBITDA as an analytical tool.

Because
of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of discretionary cash available to us to invest in the
growth of our business. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our U.S. GAAP results and using Adjusted EBITDA only supplementally.

Our
senior secured credit facilities require us to maintain a leverage ratio of consolidated total debt, net of unrestricted cash and marketable
securities, to Covenant EBITDA at a level that varies over time. As of December 31, 2009, our ratio was 5.99 to 1.00, which was below the covenant requirement of 6.75 to 1.00 under the first
lien credit facility and 7.00 to 1.00 under the second lien credit facility. Failure to comply with this covenant would result in an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities unless
waived by our lenders. Our senior secured credit facilities contain other events of default that are customary for similar facilities and transactions, including a cross-default provision under the
first lien credit facility with respect to any other indebtedness in an outstanding aggregate principal amount in excess of $25.0 million and a cross-default provision under the second lien
credit facility with respect to any other indebtedness in an outstanding aggregate principal amount in excess of $28.75 million. An event of default under our senior secured credit facilities
could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facilities, and we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities restrict our
ability to take certain actions, such as incur additional debt or make certain acquisitions, if we are unable to meet our leverage ratio. Failure to comply with these covenants would result in
limiting our long-term growth prospects by hindering our ability to incur future indebtedness or grow through acquisitions. As our failure to comply with the covenants described above can,
at best, limit our ability to incur debt or grow our company and, at worst, cause us to default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, management believes that our senior secured credit
facilities and these covenants are material to us.



The
following table presents a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA:

Predecessor

Successor

(Dollars in thousands)

Year ended

December 31,


Period from

January 1,

2006 through

November 10,


Period from

November 11,

2006 through

December 31,


Year ended

December 31,


Year ended

December 31,


Year ended

December 31,


Net income (loss)

$

121,291

$

12,787

$

(15,957

)

$

(9,714

)

$

(555,955

)

$

43,055

Interest Expense



18,354

125,366

108,022

70,862

Depreciation and amortization

5,046

4,678

9,512

53,783

54,770

59,675

Income taxes provision (benefit)


5,519

—

(571

)



Non-cash impairment and other charges(a)



6,998

5,328

585,634

(1,592

)

Transaction costs and credit facility fees(b)

—

149,792


1,044

1,319

1,188

Non-cash gains(c)

(1,286

)

—

—

(18,759

)

(65,385

)

(14,745

)

Business optimization expenses(d)




1,944


—

Sponsor fees(e)

—

—





Letter of credit fees(f)

—

—

—




Other state taxes(g)

—

—

—

—



Holding company interest income(h)

—

—

(77

)

(1,108

)

(640

)

(402

)

Adjusted EBITDA

$

126,983

$

174,303

$

19,042

$

158,148

$

129,858

$

159,087

(a)

Represents
the following non-cash charges:

•

for the Predecessor Period, a loss on disposal of assets;

•

for the period from November 11 through December 31, 2006, a charge for the step-up in book value
of inventory as a result of the application of purchase accounting in connection with the CCMP Transactions;

•

for the year ended December 31, 2007, primarily a $3.9 million charge for the step-up in book
value of inventory as a result of the application of purchase accounting in connection with the CCMP Transactions. Also includes $1.4 million of other charges, including a write-off
of a pre-CCMP Transactions receivable, stock compensation expense, unsettled mark-to-market losses on copper forward contracts and losses on disposals of assets;

•

for the year ended December 31, 2008, primarily $503.2 million in goodwill impairment charges and
$80.3 million in trade name impairment charges described in "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical
accounting policies—Goodwill and other intangible assets." $1.6 million of the amount is comprised of unsettled mark to market losses on copper forward contracts, a
write-off of pre-CCMP Transactions bad debts and losses on disposals of assets. Separately, the amount also includes a write-off of certain inventory;

•

for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily unsettled mark-to-market gains on copper
forward contracts;

We
believe that adjusting net income for these non-cash charges is useful for the following reasons:

•

The losses on disposals of assets in several periods described above result from the sale of assets that are no longer
useful in our business and therefore represent losses that are not from our core operations;

•

The charge for the step-up in the value of inventory as a result of the application of purchase accounting at
the time of the CCMP Transactions is a one-time charge resulting from our acquisition by CCMP in 2006 described in "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Transactions with CCMP";

•

The write-offs of certain pre-CCMP Transaction bad debts in the years ended December 31,
2007 and 2008 are non-cash charges that we believe do not reflect cash outflows after our acquisition by CCMP;

•

The charges for unsettled mark-to-market gains and losses on copper forward contracts represent
non-cash items to reflect changes in the fair value of forward contracts that have not been settled or terminated. We believe that it is useful to adjust net income for these items because
the charges do not represent a cash outlay in the period in which the charge is incurred, although Adjusted EBITDA must always be used together with our U.S. GAAP statements of operations and
cash flows to capture the full effect of these contracts on our operating performance;



•

The goodwill and trade name impairment charges recorded in the year ended December 31, 2008 are one-time
items that we believe do not reflect our ongoing operations. These charges are explained in greater detail in "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations—Critical accounting policies—Goodwill and other intangible assets";

•

The small amount of stock compensation expense recorded in the year ended December 31, 2007 was a
non-cash charge for compensation under our 2006 Management Equity Incentive Plan. We do not believe that equity awards and the related expense under our 2006 Management Equity Incentive
Plan, which terminated in connection with our initial public offering, will be useful in predicting stock compensation expense that we may incur under the new equity incentive plan that we intend to
adopt in connection with this offering. However, we do expect to incur stock compensation expense under the new plan, and you should see our 2010 Proxy Statement under captions "Executive
Compensation—Compensation Discussion and Analysis—Components of compensation—Equity-based compensation" and "Executive Compensation—Compensation
Discussion and Analysis—2010 Equity incentive plan" for more information about that plan; and

•

The write-off of certain pre-CCMP Transaction excess inventory recorded in the year ended
December 31, 2008 was a non-cash charge that we believe does not reflect cash outflows after our acquisition by CCMP.

(b)

Represents
the following transaction costs and fees relating to our senior secured credit facilities:

•

transaction costs relating to the CCMP Transactions recorded in the Predecessor Period from January 1, 2006 through
November 10, 2006 and the Successor Period from November 11, 2006 through December 31, 2008, which consisted primarily of the expense incurred by our Predecessor when grants under
its Equity Appreciation Share Plan vested upon the change of control triggered by the CCMP Transactions;

•

for all periods after 2006, administrative agent fees and revolving credit facility commitment fees under our senior
secured credit facilities, which we believe to be akin to, or associated with, interest expense and whose inclusion in Adjusted EBITDA is therefore similar to the inclusion of interest expense in that
calculation;

•

for all periods after 2006, transaction costs relating to repurchases of debt under our first and second lien credit
facilities by affiliates of CCMP, which CCMP's affiliates contributed to our company in exchange for the issuances of securities described in our 2010 Proxy Statement under the caption "Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions—Issuances of securities," which repurchases we do not expect to recur; and

(c)

represents
the following non-cash gains:

•

for the year ended December 31, 2005, represents gain on cancellation of deferred compensation agreement;

•

for all periods after 2006, represents non-cash gains on the extinguishment of debt repurchased by affiliates
of CCMP, as described in note (b) above, which we do not expect to recur.

(d)

Primarily
represents severance costs incurred from restructuring-related activities. For the year ended December 31, 2007, consists of
$1.4 million of severance costs and $0.6 million of other restructuring-related costs. We do not believe the charges for restructuring-related activities in the year ended
December 31, 2007 reflect our ongoing operations. Although we have incurred severance costs in most of the periods set forth in the table above, it is difficult to predict the amounts of
similar costs in the future, and we believe that adjusting for these costs aids in measuring the performance of our ongoing operations. We believe that these costs will tend to be immaterial to our
results of operations in future periods.

(e)

Represents
management, consulting, monitoring, transaction and advisory fees and related expenses paid or accrued to affiliates of CCMP and affiliates of
Unitas under an advisory services and monitoring agreement. This agreement automatically terminated upon consummation of our initial public offering, and, accordingly, we believe that these expenses
do not reflect the expenses of our ongoing operations.

(f)

Represents
fees on letters of credit outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities, which we believe to be akin to, or associated with, interest
expense and whose inclusion in Adjusted EBITDA is therefore similar to the inclusion of interest expense.

(g)

Represents
franchise and business activity taxes paid at the state level. We believe that the inclusion of these taxes in calculating Adjusted EBITDA is
similar to the inclusion of income taxes, as set forth in the table above.

(h)

Represents
interest earned on cash held at Generac Holdings Inc. We exclude these amounts because we do not include them in the calculation of
"Covenant EBITDA" under and as defined in our senior secured credit facilities.

(10)

Includes
our Series A Preferred Stock and Class B Common Stock. See Note 6 to our audited consolidated financial statements included
in Item 8 of this annual report.



Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read
together with "Item 6—Selected Financial Data" and the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Item 8 of this annual report. This discussion
contains forward-looking statements, based on current expectations and related to future events and our future financial performance, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may
differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those set forth under "Item 1A—Risk
Factors."

Overview

We are a leading designer and manufacturer of a wide range of standby generators for the residential, industrial and commercial
markets. As the only significant market participant focused exclusively on these products, we have one of the leading market positions in the standby generator market in the United States and Canada.
We design, engineer and manufacture generators with an output of between 800W and 9mW of power. We design, manufacture, source and modify engines, alternators, automatic transfer switches and other
components necessary for our products. Our generators are fueled by natural gas, liquid propane, gasoline, diesel and Bi-Fuel™. Our products are available through a broad
network of independent dealers, retailers and wholesalers.

Business drivers and measures

In operating our business and monitoring its performance, we pay attention to a number of industry trends, performance measures and
operational factors. The statements in this section are based on our current expectations.

Industry trends

Our performance is affected by the demand for reliable back-up power solutions by our customer base. This demand is
influenced by several important trends affecting our industry, including the following:

Increasing penetration opportunity.

Although there have been recent increases in product costs for installed standby generators in the
residential
and light-commercial markets (driven in the last two years by raw material costs), these costs have declined overall over the last decade, and many potential customers are not aware of the costs and
benefits of backup power solutions. We estimate that penetration rates for residential products are approximately 2% of U.S. single-family detached, owner-occupied households with a home value of over
$100,000, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau's 2007 American Housing Survey for the United States, and penetration rates of many light-commercial outlets such as restaurants, drug stores, and gas
stations are significantly lower than penetration of hospitals and industrial locations. We believe that by expanding our distribution network,
continuing to develop our product line, and targeting our marketing efforts, we can continue to build awareness and increase penetration for our standby generators.

Effect of large scale power disruptions.

Power disruptions are an important driver of consumer awareness and have historically
influenced demand for
generators. Disruptions in the aging U.S. power grid and tropical and winter storm activity increase product awareness and may drive consumers to accelerate their purchase of a standby or portable
generator during the immediate and subsequent period, which we believe may last for six to twelve months for standby generators. While there are power outages every year across all regions of the
country, major outage activity is unpredictable by nature and, as a result, our sales levels and profitability may fluctuate from period to period.

Impact of business capital investment cycle.

The market for commercial and industrial generators is affected by the capital investment
cycle and
overall durable goods spending, as businesses either add



new
locations or make investments to upgrade existing locations. These trends can have a material impact on demand for industrial and commercial generators. However the capital investment cycle may
differ for the various industrial and commercial end markets (industrial, telecommunications, distribution, retail health care facilities and municipal infrastructure, among others). The market for
generators is also affected by general economic conditions, credit availability and trends in durable goods spending by consumers and businesses.

Operational factors

We are subject to various factors that can affect our results of operations, which we attempt to mitigate through factors we can
control, including continued product development, expanded distribution, pricing and cost control. The operational factors that affect our business include the following:

New product start-up costs.

When we launch new products, we generally experience an increase in start-up costs, including
engineering expenses, air freight expenses, testing expenses and marketing expenses, resulting in lower gross margins after the initial launch of a new
product. Margins on new product introductions generally increase over the life of the product as these start-up costs decline and we focus our engineering efforts on product cost
reduction.

Effect of commodity and component price fluctuations.

Industry-wide price fluctuations of key commodities, such as steel, copper and
aluminum and other components we use in our products, can have a material impact on our results of operations. We have historically attempted to mitigate the impact of commodity and component prices
through improved product design, price increases and select hedging transactions. Our results are also influenced by changes in fuel prices in the form of freight rates, which in some cases are borne
by our customers and in other cases are paid by us.

Other factors

Other factors that affect our results of operations include the following:

Factors influencing interest and amortization expense.

As a result of the CCMP Transactions, our interest expense and amortization
expense have
increased. Accordingly, our consolidated financial statements prior to November 2006 are not comparable to subsequent periods, primarily as a result of significantly increased interest expense and
amortization expense. We anticipate that interest expense will decrease in future periods because, after December 31, 2009, we used the net proceeds from our initial public offering and
available cash on hand, to repay outstanding indebtedness. The expiration of certain interest rate swap agreements in January 2010 will also decrease interest expense in future periods.

Factors influencing provision for income taxes.

Because we made a Section 338(h)(10) election in connection with the CCMP
Transactions, we
have $1.4 billion of tax-deductible goodwill and intangible asset amortization remaining as of December 31, 2009 that we expect to generate cash tax savings of
$557 million through 2021, assuming continued profitability and a 38.5% tax rate. The amortization of these assets for tax purposes is expected to be $122 million annually through 2020
and $102 million in 2021, which generates annual cash tax savings of $47 million through 2020 and $39 million in 2021, assuming profitability and a 38.5% tax rate. Additionally,
we have federal net operating loss, or NOL, carry-forwards of $161.8 million as of December 31, 2009, which we expect to generate an additional $57 million of federal cash tax
savings at a 35% rate when and if utilized. Based on current business plans, we believe that our cash tax obligations through 2021 will be significantly reduced by these tax attributes. However, any
subsequent accumulations of common stock ownership leading to a change of control under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, including through sales of stock



by
large stockholders, all of which are outside of our control, could limit and defer our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future federal income tax liabilities.

Seasonality.

Although there is demand for our products throughout the year, in each of the past three years approximately 20% to 25% of
our net sales
occurred in the first quarter, 22% to 25% in the second quarter, 25% to 29% in the third quarter and 25% to 30% in the fourth quarter, with different seasonality depending on the timing of outage
activity in each year. We maintain a flexible production schedule in order to respond to outage-driven peak demand, but typically increase production levels in the second and third quarters of each
year.

Transactions with CCMP

In November 2006, affiliates of CCMP, together with affiliates of Unitas and members of our management, purchased an aggregate of
$689 million of our equity capital. In addition, on November 10, 2006, Generac Power Systems borrowed an aggregate of $1,380 million, consisting of an initial drawdown of
$950 million under a $1.1 billion first lien secured credit facility and $430 million under a $430 million second lien secured credit facility. With the proceeds from these
equity and debt financings, together with cash on hand at Generac Power Systems, we (1) acquired all of the capital stock of Generac Power Systems and repaid certain pre-transaction
indebtedness of Generac Power Systems for $2.0 billion, (2) paid $66 million in transaction costs related to the transaction and (3) retained $3 million for general
corporate purposes. See "Item 1—Business—History—CCMP transactions."

During
2007, affiliates of CCMP acquired $80.3 million principal amount of second lien term loans for approximately $60.0 million. CCMP's affiliates exchanged this debt for
additional shares of Class B Common Stock. The fair value of the shares exchanged was $60.0 million. We recorded this transaction as additional Class B Common Stock of
$60.0 million based on the fair value of the debt contributed by CCMP's affiliates, which approximated the fair value of shares exchanged. The debt was held in treasury at face value.
Consequently, we recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of $18.8 million, which includes the write-off of deferred financing fees and other closing costs, in the consolidated
statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007.

During
2008, affiliates of CCMP acquired $148.9 million principal amount of second lien term loans for approximately $81.1 million. CCMP's affiliates exchanged
$24.0 million principal amount of this debt for additional shares of Class B Common Stock and $124.9 million principal amount of this debt for shares of our Series A
Preferred Stock. The fair value of the shares of our Class B Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock so exchanged was $18.2 million and $62.9 million, respectively. We
recorded this transaction as Series A Preferred Stock of $62.9 million and Class B Common Stock of $18.2 million based on the fair value of the debt contributed by CCMP's
affiliates, which approximated the fair value of shares exchanged. The debt was held in treasury at face value. Consequently, we recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of $65.4 million,
which includes the write-off of deferred financing fees and other closing costs, in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2008.

As
of September 30, 2008, we failed to satisfy the leverage ratio in our senior secured credit facilities. As permitted by the credit agreement, in November, 2008, this violation
was remedied by an equity contribution of $15,500,000 from affiliates of CCMP, in exchange for 1,550 shares of Series A Preferred stock.

During
2009, affiliates of CCMP acquired $9.9 million principal amount of first lien term loans and $20.0 million principal amount of second lien term loans for
approximately $14.8 million. CCMP's affiliates exchanged this debt for 1,475.4596 shares of Series A Preferred Stock. The fair value of the shares exchanged was $14.8 million. We
recorded this transaction as additional Series A Preferred Stock of $14.8 million based on the fair value of the debt contributed by CCMP's affiliates, which



approximated
the fair value of shares exchanged. The debt was held in treasury at face value. Consequently, we recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of $14.7 million, which includes a
write-off of deferred financing fees and other closing costs, in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009.

In
connection with such issuances of our Class B Common Stock to affiliates of CCMP in connection with debt exchanges in 2007 and 2008 and the satisfaction of preemptive rights
under the shareholders' agreement that arose from such issuances, affiliates of CCMP sold some of the shares of our Class B Common Stock they were issued in connection with such debt exchanges
to an entity affiliated with
CCMP, certain affiliates of Unitas and certain members of our management and board of directors. In addition, in connection with such issuances of our Series A Preferred Stock to affiliates and
CCMP in connection with debt exchanges in 2008 and 2009 and the satisfaction of preemptive rights under the shareholders' agreement that arose from such issuances, during the year ended
December 31, 2009, we issued 2,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $20.0 million in cash to an entity affiliated with CCMP and certain
members of management and our board of directors, and affiliates of CCMP sold some of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock they were previously issued in connection with such debt exchanges
to an entity affiliated with CCMP and a member of the board of directors at the same price.

Corporate reorganization

Our capitalization prior to the initial public offering consisted of Series A Preferred Stock, Class B Common Stock and
Class A Common Stock. Our Series A Preferred Stock was entitled to a priority return preference equal to a 14% annual return on the amount originally paid for such shares and equity
participation equal to 24.3% of the remaining equity value of the Company. Our Class B Common Stock was entitled to a priority return preference equal to a 10% annual return on the amount
originally paid for such shares. In connection with the initial public offering, we undertook a corporate reorganization which gave effect to the conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock and
Class B Common Stock into the same class of our common stock that was sold in our initial public offering while taking into account the rights and preference of those shares, including the
priority returns of our Series A Preferred Stock and our Class B Common Stock and the equity participation rights of the Series A Preferred Stock. A reverse stock split was needed
to reduce the number of shares to be issued to holders of our Class A and Class B Common Stock to the number that correctly reflected the proportionate interest of such stockholders in
our company, taking into account the number of shares of common stock to be issued upon the conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock and the number and value of shares of common stock to be
issued and sold to new investors in the initial public offering. We refer to these transactions as the "Corporate Reorganization." The specific steps in the Corporate Reorganization were as follows:

Treatment
of Class B Common Stock

Our
certificate of incorporation prior to the initial public offering provided for the mandatory conversion of our Class B Voting Common Stock to
Class A Common Stock in the event of an initial public offering, so that our Class B Common Stock would be converted into the same class of our common stock offered in an initial public
offering taking into account of the value, rights and preferences of our Class B Common Stock. In accordance with the terms of our certificate of incorporation prior to the offering, at the
time we entered into the underwriting agreement with respect to the initial public offering, each share of our Class B Common Stock automatically converted into a number of shares of our
Class A Common Stock equal to one plus the quotient obtained by dividing (i)(x) the amount paid for such share of Class B Common Stock plus (y) an increase to such amount equal to
10% per annum calculated and compounded quarterly on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months and which increased amount shall be deemed to have accrued on a daily
basis



(i.e., the
"Class B Return"), by (ii) the public offering price (net of underwriting discounts and commissions). We refer to this as the "Class B Conversion." Each share of
our Class B Common Stock converted into 1,118.440 shares of our Class A Common Stock (i.e., the "Class B Conversion Ratio"). As a result of the Class B Conversion,
we issued an aggregate of 88,484,700 shares of our Class A Common Stock.

Reverse
stock split

Immediately
following the Class B Conversion, we effected a 3.294 for one reverse stock split of our then outstanding shares of Class A Common
Stock, including those shares of our Class A Common Stock issued as part of the Class B Conversion, which decreased the number of shares of our Class A Common Stock immediately
after the Class B Conversion from 88,490,028 shares to 26,861,523 shares. We refer to this as the "Reverse Stock Split."

Treatment
of Series A Preferred Stock

The
certificate of designations for our Series A Preferred Stock prior to our initial public offering provided for the mandatory conversion of the
Series A Preferred Stock to Class A Common Stock in the event of an initial public offering, so that our Series A Preferred Stock converted into the same class of our common stock
offered in an initial public offering taking into account of the value, rights and preferences of our Series A Preferred Stock. In accordance with the terms of the certificate of designations
to our Series A Preferred Stock and our certificate of
incorporation prior to the offering, promptly following the time we entered into the underwriting agreement with respect to the initial public offering, each share of our Series A Preferred
Stock automatically converted into a number of shares of our Class A Common Stock equal to the sum of (A) the quotient obtained by dividing (i)(w) the amount paid for such share of
Series A Preferred Stock plus (x) an increase to such amount equal to 14% per annum calculated and compounded quarterly on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve
30-day months and which increased amount shall be deemed to have accrued on a daily basis (the "Series A Preferred Return"), by (ii) the public offering price (net of
underwriting discounts and commissions), plus (B) the product of (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is the number of shares of our Series A
Preferred Stock outstanding at such time, and (z) an additional number of shares of our Class A Common Stock that, when added to the number of shares of our Class A Common Stock
outstanding at such time, including after giving effect to the Class B Conversion and the Reverse Stock Split, equaled 24.3% of the number of shares of our Class A Common Stock
outstanding at such time (excluding the shares issued pursuant to clause (A) above). We refer to this as the "Series A Preferred Conversion." Each share of our Series A Preferred
Stock converted into 1,724.976 shares of our Class A Common Stock (i.e., the "Series A Preferred Conversion Ratio"). As a result of the Series A Preferred Conversion, we
issued an aggregate of 19,511,018 shares of our Class A Common Stock.

Reclassification
of Class A Common Stock

After
giving effect to the Class B Conversion, the Reverse Stock Split and the Series A Preferred Conversion, there were 46,372,541 shares of
Class A Common Stock which were reclassified as common stock.

Initial public offering

On February 17, 2010, we completed our initial public offering of 18,750,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $13.00 per
share. In addition, the underwriters exercised their option and purchased an additional 1,950,500 shares of our common stock from us on March 18, 2010 to cover over-allotments. We
received a total of approximately $247.8 million in net proceeds from the initial public offering and underwriters' excercise, after deducting the underwriting discounts and total



expenses.
Following the Corporate Reorganization, the IPO and underwriters' option exercise, we had 67,529,290 total common shares outstanding.

Subsequent repayment of debt

In February 2010, we used $221.6 million in net proceeds from the initial closing of the initial public offering to pay down our
second lien term loan in full and to pay down a portion of our first lien term loan. In addition, in March 2010, we used $138.5 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand to further pay down
our first lien term loan principal. As a result of these pay downs, at March 19, 2010 the outstanding balance on the first lien credit facility had been reduced to $731.4 million, and
our second lien credit facility had been repaid in full and terminated This reduction in debt will have a significant impact on cash flows as a result of lower interest expense in future periods,
based on current LIBOR rates.

Components of net sales and expenses

Net sales

Substantially all of our net sales are generated through the sale of our standby generators to the residential, commercial and
industrial markets. We also sell air-cooled engines to certain customers and sell service parts to our dealer network. Net sales are recognized upon shipment of products to our customers.
Net sales also includes shipping and handling charges billed to customers which are recognized at the time of shipment of products to our customers. Related freight costs are included in cost of
sales. Our generators are fueled by natural gas, liquid propane, gasoline, diesel or Bi-Fuel™ systems with power output from 800W to 9mW. Our products are primarily
manufactured and assembled at our Wisconsin facilities and distributed through thousands of outlets across the United States and Canada. Our smaller kW generators for the residential, portable and
commercial markets are typically built to stock, while our larger kW products for the industrial markets are generally customized and built to order.

Our
net sales are affected primarily by the U.S. economy.

We
are not dependent on any one industry or customer for our net sales, with no single customer representing more than 8% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 and
our top ten customers representing less than 30% of our net sales for the same period.

Costs of goods sold

The principal elements of costs of goods sold in our manufacturing operations are component parts, raw materials, factory overhead and
labor. Component parts and raw materials comprised over 80% of costs of goods sold for the year ended December 31, 2009. The principal component parts are engines and alternators. We design and
manufacture air-cooled engines for certain of our products smaller than 20kW. We source engines for some of our smaller products and all of our products larger than 20kW. We design all the
alternators for our units and manufacture alternators for certain of our units. We also manufacture other generator components where we believe we have a design and cost advantage. We source component
parts from an extensive global network of reliable, low-cost suppliers.

The
principal raw materials used in our manufacturing processes and in the manufacturing of the components we source are steel, copper and aluminum. We are susceptible to fluctuations in
the cost of these commodities, impacting our costs of goods sold. We seek to mitigate the impact of commodity prices on our business through a continued focus on product design improvements and price
increases in our products. However, there is typically a lag between raw material price fluctuations and their effect on our costs of goods sold.



Other
sources of costs include our manufacturing facilities, which require significant factory overhead, labor and shipping costs. Factory overhead includes utilities, support personnel,
depreciation, general supplies and support and maintenance. Although we maintain a low-cost, largely non-union workforce and flexible manufacturing processes, our margins can
be impacted when we cannot promptly decrease labor and manufacturing costs to match declines in net sales.

Operating expenses

Our operating expenses consist of costs incurred to support our marketing, distribution, engineering, information systems, human
resources, finance, purchasing, risk management, legal and tax functions. All of these categories include personnel costs such as salaries, bonuses, employee benefit costs and taxes. We classify our
operating expenses into four categories:
selling and service, research and development, general and administrative, and amortization of intangibles.

Selling and service.

Our selling and service expenses consist primarily of personnel expense, marketing expense, warranty expense and
other sales
expenses. Our personnel expense recorded in selling and services expenses includes the expense of our sales force responsible for our national accounts and other personnel involved in the marketing
and sales of our products. Warranty expense, which is recorded at the time of sale, is estimated based on historical trends. Our marketing expenses include direct mail costs, printed material costs,
product display costs, market research expenses, trade show expenses and media advertising. Marketing expenses generally increase as our sales efforts increase and are related to the launch of new
product offerings and opportunities within selected markets or associated with specific events such as awareness marketing in areas impacted by storms, participation in trade shows and other events.

Research and development.

Our research and development expenses support our nearly 100 active research and development projects. We
currently operate
three advanced facilities and employ over 100 engineers who focus on new product development, existing product improvement and cost reduction. Our commitment to research and development has resulted
in a significant portfolio of approximately 50 U.S. and international patents and patent applications. Our research and development is expensed as incurred.

General and administrative.

Our general and administrative expenses include personnel costs for general and administrative employees,
accounting and
legal professional services fees, information technology costs, insurance, travel and entertainment expense and other corporate expense. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase
in future periods as we expect to incur additional expenses associated with being a public company, including increased personnel costs, legal costs, accounting costs, board compensation expense,
investor relations costs, higher insurance premiums and costs associated with our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, other applicable SEC regulations and the
requirements of the NYSE.

Amortization of intangibles.

Our amortization of intangibles expenses include the straight-line amortization of customer lists, patents
and other intangibles assets.

Goodwill and trade name impairment charges.

Goodwill represents the excess of the amount paid to
acquire us over the estimated fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired as of the November 2006 date of the CCMP Transactions.

Other
indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of trade names. The fair value of trade names is measured using a relief-from-royalty approach, which assumes the
fair value of the trade name is the discounted cash flows of the amount that would be paid had we not owned the trade name and instead licensed the trade name from another company.



In some periods, we have recorded a charge for the write down of goodwill and trade names that was recorded in operating expenses. Please see "Critical accounting
policies—Goodwill and other intangible assets" for additional detail on this charge.

Transaction-related expenses.

In the year ended December 31, 2006, our operating expenses include one-time transaction-related
expenses incurred during the Predecessor Period related to the CCMP Transactions.

Other income (expense)

Our other income (expense) includes the interest expense on the outstanding balances of our $950.0 million first lien term loan,
$430.0 million second lien term loan and $150.0 million revolving credit facility entered into in November 2006, and the amortization of debt financing costs. No amounts were outstanding
under the revolving credit facility at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. The amounts borrowed under our term loans bear interest at rates based upon either a base rate or LIBOR,
plus an applicable margin. We also earn interest income on our cash and
cash equivalents, which is included in other income (expense). We also recorded expenses related to interest rate swap agreements, which had a notional amount of $675.0 million outstanding at
December 31, 2009 at an average rate of 5.04%. These interest rate swap agreements expired on January 4, 2010. Other income (expense) may also include other financial items such as
extinguishment of debt.

Results of operations

Year ended December 31, 2009 compared to year ended December 31, 2008

The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data for the periods indicated:

Year ended

December 31,

(Dollars in thousands)



Net sales

$

574,229

$

588,248

Costs of goods sold

372,199

352,398

Gross profit

202,030

235,850

Operating expenses:

Selling and service

57,449

59,823

Research and development

9,925

10,842

General and administrative

15,869

14,713

Amortization of intangibles

47,602

51,960

Goodwill and trade name impairment charges

583,486

—

Total operating expenses

714,331

137,338

Income (loss) from operations

(512,301

)

98,512

Total other expense, net

(43,254

)

(55,118

)

Income (loss) before provision for income taxes

(555,555

)

43,394

Provision for income taxes



Net income (loss)

$

(555,955

)

$

43,055



Year ended

December 31,

(Dollars in thousands)



Residential power products

$

332,618

$

370,740

Industrial & Commercial power products

207,861

187,323

Other

33,750

30,185

Net sales

$

574,229

$

588,248

Net sales.

Net sales increased $14.0 million, or 2.4%, to $588.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 from
$574.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. This increase was driven by a $38.1 million, or 11.5%, increase in sales to the residential markets due to the introduction of
our new automatic home standby generator products, increases in our points of distribution, our re-entry into the small kilowatt portable generator market in May 2008, and a strong winter
storm season in the beginning of 2009, partially offset by a weaker summer storm season during the third quarter of 2009. The increase in home standby and portable generators was partially offset by a
$20.5 million, or 9.9%, decline in industrial and commercial sales as industrial national account and other customers lowered capital spending in late 2008 and 2009. Net sales were also
impacted by increased selling prices on certain residential, commercial and industrial units.

Costs of goods sold.

Costs of goods sold decreased $19.8 million, or 5.3%, to $352.4 million for the year ended
December 31,
2009 from $372.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. This decrease was driven by a $13.3 million decrease in materials cost, primarily due to lower steel, copper and
aluminum costs, partially offset by the increase in sales volume. Freight costs and labor & overhead costs also decreased $3.3 million and $3.2 million, respectively.

Gross profit.

Gross profit increased $33.8 million, or 16.7%, to $235.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009
from
$202.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, primarily due to the factors affecting net sales and cost of goods sold described above. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit
increased to 40.1% for the year ended December 31, 2009 from 35.2% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Gross profit margin increased as we realized the margin improvement from price
increases, commodity normalization and improved sourcing of certain components and products, partially offset by higher sales of lower margin products.

Operating expenses.

Operating expenses decreased $577.0 million to $137.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009
from
$714.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Because of the goodwill and tradename impairment, operating expenses were $583.5 million higher for the year ended
December 31, 2008. The remaining increase in operating expenses of $6.5 million in 2009 was driven by an increase in amortization of intangibles of $4.4 million, primarily due to
the re-characterization of a particular trade name from indefinite-lived to defined life. The impairment of the particular trade name was a result of the implementation of our
re-branding strategy, whereby we consolidated brands under the Generac label and have begun phasing out the particular trade name over time. Selling and service expenses also increased
$2.4 million due to higher variable expenses related to our increase in net sales, such as warranty, commission and credit card fees, as well as higher advertising costs. Research and
development expenses increased $0.9 million from ongoing product development and engineering resource investment. General and administrative expenses declined $1.2 million due to cost
containment initiatives across the business.

Other expense.

Other expense increased $11.9 million, or 27.4%, to $55.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009
from
$43.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. This increase was driven by a decrease in gains on the extinguishment of debt of $50.6 million, partially offset by a decline
in interest expense of $37.2 million as a result of our reduction in indebtedness and lower LIBOR rates. The gains on extinguishment of debt and the related decrease in interest expense are due



to
the debt repurchases by affiliates of CCMP, which were subsequently contributed to our company in exchange for shares of our Class B Voting Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock.

Income tax expense.

Income tax expense was $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decline of $0.1 million
from
$0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Income tax expense primarily relates to certain state income taxes based on profitability measures other than net income.

Net income (loss).

As a result of the factors identified above, we generated net income of $43.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2009 compared to a net loss of $556.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in net income is due to the items previously described.

Year ended December 31, 2008 compared to year ended December 31, 2007

The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data for the periods indicated:

Year ended

December 31,

(Dollars in thousands)



Net sales

$

555,705

$

574,229

Costs of goods sold

333,428

372,199

Gross profit

222,277

202,030

Operating expenses:

Selling and service

52,652

57,449

Research and development

9,606

9,925

General and administrative

17,581

15,869

Amortization of intangibles

47,602

47,602

Goodwill and trade name impairment charges

—

583,486

Total operating expenses

127,441

714,331

Income (loss) from operations

94,836

(512,301

)

Total other expense, net

(105,121

)

(43,254

)

Loss before provision for income taxes

(10,285

)

(555,555

)

(Benefit) provision for income taxes

(571

)


Net loss

$

(9,714

)

$

(555,955

)

Year ended

December 31,

(Dollars in thousands)



Residential power products

$

306,741

$

332,618

Industrial & Commercial power products

205,759

207,861

Other

43,205

33,750

Net sales

$

555,705

$

574,229

Net sales.

Net sales increased $18.5 million, or 3.3%, to $574.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 from
$555.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. This increase was driven by a $25.9 million, or 8.4%, increase in sales to the residential markets, partially offset by a
$9.5 million, or 21.9%, decrease in other sales driven by weakness in the RV market. The increase in sales to the residential markets was driven by our re-entry into the small
kilowatt portable generator market in the second quarter of 2008, increased sales volumes of standby generators following the redesign of our automatic home standby generators and growth in our dealer
and electrical wholesale



points
of distribution. Demand for home standby and portable products was also aided by heightened awareness following a strong hurricane and winter ice storm season. In 2008, we also experienced a
modest increase in sales to commercial and industrial markets.

Costs of goods sold.

Costs of goods sold increased $38.8 million, or 11.6%, to $372.2 million for the year ended
December 31,
2008 from $333.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. This increase was driven primarily by a $35.1 million increase in materials cost due to higher steel, copper and
aluminum commodity prices and higher sales volumes. Additionally, labor expenses increased by $3.2 million due to higher sales volumes.

Gross profit.

Gross profit decreased $20.2 million, or 9.1%, to $202.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 from
$222.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As a percentage of net sales, gross profit declined to 35.2% for the year ended December 31, 2008 from 40.0% for the year
ended December 31, 2007. This decline was primarily due to the above-mentioned increases in commodity prices, new product launch costs, as well as an increase in sales of lower margin products.

Operating expenses.

Operating expenses increased $586.9 million to $714.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
from
$127.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. This increase is primarily attributable to a $583.5 million goodwill and trade name impairment charge that was recorded in the
fourth quarter of 2008. In addition to the increase in operating expenses related to the goodwill and trade name impairment charge, operating expenses increased $3.4 million, or 2.7%. This was
driven primarily by a $4.8 million increase in selling and service expenses due to increased sales volumes and associated increases in freight and warranty expenses. Research and development
costs also increased by $0.3 million from ongoing product development. As a percentage of net sales, operating expenses, excluding the goodwill and trade name impairment charge, declined to
22.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008 from 22.9% for the year ended December 31, 2007 due to cost management efforts, including a $1.7 million decline in general and
administrative expense and operating cost leverage over higher sales volumes.

Other expense.

Other expense decreased $61.9 million, or 58.9%, to $43.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008
from
$105.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. This decline was driven by a $46.6 million increase in gains on the extinguishment of debt to $65.4 million, as well as
a $17.3 million decrease in interest expense as a result of debt repurchases made during the year and the ongoing deleveraging of the business. The debt repurchases consisted of purchases by
affiliates of CCMP, which were subsequently contributed to our company in exchange for shares of our Class B Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock.

Income tax expense (benefit).

We incurred an income tax expense of $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared
to an
income tax benefit of $0.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.

Net income (loss).

As a result of the factors identified above, we generated a net loss of $556.0 million, for the year ended
December 31, 2008, compared to a net loss of $9.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in net loss is due to the items previously discussed.

Liquidity and financial position

Our primary cash requirements include the payment of our raw material and components suppliers, salaries & benefits, operating
expenses, interest and principal payments on our debt, and capital expenditures. We finance our operations primarily through cash flow from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit
facility, if any. In November 2006, Generac Power Systems entered into a seven-year $950.0 million first lien term loan, a seven-and-a-half year
$430.0 million second lien term loan, and a six-year $150.0 million revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2009,



we
have paid $29.4 million in first lien principal and our affiliates have repurchased and contributed $9.9 million in face value of Generac Power System's first lien term loan. Our
affiliates have also repurchased and contributed $249.1 million in face value of Generac Power System's second lien term loan.

At
December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $161.3 million and $145.0 million of availability under our revolving credit facility. Our total
indebtedness was $1,091.5 million at December 31, 2009. On February 17, 2010, we used approximately $221.6 million of the net proceeds of our initial public offering to pay
down our second lien term loans in full and to repay a portion of our first lien term loans. In March 2010, we used a substantial portion of our cash and cash equivalents on hand to repay an
additional $138.5 million of our first lien term loan. As a result of these pay downs, at March 19, 2010 the outstanding balance on the first lien credit facility had been reduced to
$731.4 million, and our second lien credit facility had been repaid in full and terminated.

Long-term liquidity

We believe that our cash flow from operations, our availability under our revolving credit facility, combined with our low capital
expenditure requirements and favorable tax attributes, will provide us with sufficient capital to continue to grow our business in the next twelve
months and beyond. However, we will use a significant portion of our cash flow to pay interest on our outstanding debt, limiting the amount available for working capital, capital expenditures and
other general corporate purposes. As we continue to expand our business, we may in the future require additional capital to fund working capital, capital expenditures, or acquisitions.

Cash flow

Year ended December 31, 2009 compared to year ended December 31, 2008

The following table summarizes our cash flows by category for the periods presented:

Year ended

December 31,

(Dollars in thousands)



Change

% Change

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

10,224

$

74,607

$

64,383

629.7

%

Net cash used in investing activities

$

(5,038

)

$

(4,351

)

$


13.6

%

Net cash provided by financing activities

$

4,728

$

9,822

$

5,094

107.7

%

Net
cash provided by operating activities was $74.6 million for 2009 compared to $10.2 million in 2008. The $64.4 million increase was primarily due to increased
sales volume and lower cost of goods sold for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, as well as a reduction in cash paid for interest of
$33.8 million .

Net
cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $4.4 million and included $4.5 million used for the purchase of property and
equipment. Net cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $5.0 million and included $5.2 million used for the purchase of property and equipment.

Net
cash provided by financing activities was $9.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to a $20.0 million capital contribution in exchange for shares
of our Series A Preferred Stock, offset by principal payments on our first lien term loan of $9.5 million and $0.7 million of payments incurred in advance of our IPO. Net cash
provided by financing activities was $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, driven primarily by $15.5 million in stockholder contributions of capital, offset in part
by $10.4 million of principal payments on our term loans.



Year ended December 31, 2008 compared to year ended December 31, 2007

The following table summarizes our cash flows by category for the periods presented:

Year ended

December 31,

(Dollars in thousands)



Change

% Change

Net cash provided by operating activities

$

38,513

$

10,224

$

(28,289

)

(73.5

)%

Net cash used in investing activities

$

(12,732

)

$

(5,038

)

$

7,694

60.4

%

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

$

(8,937

)

$

4,728

$

13,665

152.9

%

Net
cash provided by operating activities was $10.2 million for 2008 compared to $38.5 million in 2007. The $28.3 million decrease was primarily due to
$20.2 million in lower gross profit driven by increases in material costs from rising commodity costs, coupled with a $3.4 million increase in selling, engineering and administrative
costs. In 2008, changes in Accounts Receivable, Inventories and Accounts Payable used $12.7 million of cash flow from operations as sales and production levels increased from 2007 levels. In
2007, changes in Accounts Receivable, Inventories and Accounts Payable generated $22.8 million of cash flow from operations as sales and production levels decreased from 2006 levels. In
addition, in 2007, we paid a $15 million transaction fee to affiliates of CCMP related to the November 2006 CCMP Transactions.

Net
cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $5.0 million and included $5.2 million used for the purchase of property and
equipment. Net cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $12.7 million and included $13.2 million used for the purchase of property and equipment
and the construction of our distribution center in Whitewater, Wisconsin, partially offset by a cash inflow of $0.4 million from collections on notes receivable.

Net
cash provided by financing activities was $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, driven primarily by $15.5 million in stockholder contributions of
capital related to an equity cure, offset in part by $10.4 million of principal payments on our term loans. Net cash used for financing activities was $8.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2007, primarily due to $9.5 million in principal payments on our first lien term loan.

Senior secured credit facilities

In November 2006, as part of the CCMP Transactions, Generac Power Systems entered into (i) a first lien credit facility with
Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as administrative agent, composed of (x) a $950.0 million term loan, which matures in November 2013 and (y) a $150 million
revolving credit facility, which matures in November 2012, and (ii) a second lien credit facility with JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, composed of a $430.0 million
term loan, which matures in May 2014. A summary of these senior secured credit facilities are described below.

On
February 17, 2010, we used approximately $221.6 million of the net proceeds of our initial public offering to pay down our second lien term loans in full and to repay a
portion of our first lien term loans. In March, 2010, we used a substantial portion of our cash and cash equivalents on hand to repay an additional $138.5 million of our first lien term loan.
As a result of these pay downs, at March 19, 2010 the outstanding balance on the first lien credit facility had been reduced to $731.4 million.

The
first lien credit facility bears interest at rates based upon either a base rate, plus an applicable margin (1.50% as of December 31, 2009, 1.50% as of December 31,
2008 and 1.50% as of December 31, 2007) or adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin (2.50% as of December 31, 2009, 2.50% as of December 31, 2008 and 2.50% as of
December 31, 2007) determined based on a leverage ratio. The effective interest rate on the first lien credit facility term loan on December 31, 2009 was 5.7%. The effective interest
rate, excluding the effect of interest rate swaps in place on the first lien credit facility term loan, which expired on January 4, 2010, was 2.8%.



The second lien credit facility, which was paid in full on February 17, 2010, beared interest at rates based upon a base rate, plus an applicable margin of
5.00%, or an adjusted LIBOR rate, plus an applicable margin of 6.00%. The effective interest rate on the second lien credit facility term loan on December 31, 2009 was 9.2%. The effective
interest rate, excluding the effect of interest rate swaps in place on the second lien credit facility term loan, which expired on January 4, 2010, was 6.3%.

Amounts
under the revolving credit facility can be borrowed and repaid, from time to time, at our option, provided there is no default or event of default under either credit facility.

The
obligations under the senior secured credit facilities are guaranteed by Generac Acquisition Corp. The first lien term loan facility and the revolving credit facility are secured by
a first-priority perfected security interest (subject to permitted liens) in:

•

substantially all tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) owned by Generac Acquisition Corp. and
Generac Power Systems;

•

the capital stock of the existing and future domestic subsidiaries of Generac Acquisition Corp. and Generac Power Systems;
provided that the pledge of the capital stock of non-U.S. subsidiaries is limited to 65% of the stock of the guarantors' non-U.S. subsidiaries; and

•

all proceeds and products of the property and assets described above.

The
second lien term loan facility was secured by a second-priority security interest in all the assets pledged to the first lien term loan facility and the revolving credit facility, as
described above.

In
addition, our senior secured credit facilities provide us the option to raise incremental credit facilities, subject to certain limitations.

Covenant compliance

The senior secured credit facilities require Generac Power Systems to maintain a leverage ratio of consolidated total debt, net of
unrestricted cash and marketable securities, to EBITDA (as defined in the senior secured credit facilities). We refer to the calculation of EBITDA under and as defined in our senior secured credit
facilities in this annual report as "Covenant EBITDA." Covenant EBITDA and the leverage ratio are calculated based on the four most recently completed fiscal quarters of Generac Power Systems. Based
on the formulations set forth in the first lien credit facility, as of December 31, 2009, Generac Power Systems was required to maintain a maximum leverage ratio of 6.75 to 1.00, and the second
lien credit facility required Generac Power Systems to maintain a maximum leverage ratio of 7.00 to 1.00. The maximum leverage ratio decreases over time under both facilities. The more restrictive of
the facilities is the first lien credit facility, which requires Generac Power Systems to have a leverage ratio of no greater than 6.75 to 1.00 in the fourth quarter of 2009 and in the first quarter
of 2010, 6.50 to 1.00 in the second quarter of 2010, 6.25 to 1.00 in the third quarter of 2010, 5.75 to 1.00 in the fourth quarter of 2010 and the first quarter of 2011, 5.50 to 1.00 in the second
quarter of 2011, 5.25 to 1.00 in the third quarter of 2011 and 4.75 to 1.00 in the fourth quarter of 2011 and thereafter. As of December 31, 2009, Generac Power Systems' leverage ratio was 5.99
to 1.00. Failure to comply with this covenant would result in an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities unless waived by our lenders. As of September 30, 2008, Generac
Power Systems had violated its leverage ratio covenant. As permitted by the senior secured credit facilities, this violation was remedied by an equity contribution of $15.3 million from
affiliates of CCMP in the fourth quarter of 2008. Generac Power Systems was in compliance with all of its covenants as of December 31, 2007, December 31, 2008 and December 31,
2009.

The
maximum leverage ratio is a material term of our senior secured credit facilities in part because it is a maintenance covenant, and our compliance with the covenant is used in
determining, among other things, the interest rate of the first lien credit facility, our ability to undertake business



acquisitions,
our ability to incur certain types of indebtedness and the maximum amount of dividends and distributions that our senior secured credit facilities permit us to pay to our stockholders,
as described in more detail below.

The
senior secured credit facilities contain other events of default that are customary for similar facilities and transactions, including a cross-default provision under the first lien
credit facility with respect to any other indebtedness in an outstanding aggregate principal amount in excess of $25.0 million and a cross-default provision under the second lien credit
facility with respect to any other indebtedness in an outstanding aggregate principal amount in excess of $28.75 million. An event of default under the senior secured credit facilities could
result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facilities, and we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due. If there were an event of default as a result of a failure to maintain
our required leverage ratio or otherwise, it would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity, including preventing us from utilizing our revolving credit facility. In addition,
the senior secured credit facilities restrict our ability to take certain actions, such as incur additional debt or make certain acquisitions, if we are unable to meet our leverage ratio.

In
addition to the financial covenant described above, the senior secured credit facilities contain certain other affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, provide
limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, liens on property, sale and leaseback transactions, investments, loans and advances, merger or consolidation, asset sales, acquisitions,
transactions with affiliates, prepayments of any other indebtedness, modifications of Generac Power Systems' organizational documents, restrictions on Generac Power Systems' subsidiaries' ability to
make capital expenditures. The ability to declare or pay dividends or make any other distributions with respect to any equity interests of Generac Power Systems, or to redeem, purchase, retire or
otherwise acquire for value any equity interests of Generac Power Systems is also restricted under the first lien and second lien credit facility, subject to certain exceptions, including but not
limited to dividends and distributions with the net proceeds of any issuance of qualified capital stock and a dollar basket which may be increased, subject, in the case of the dollar basket, to
compliance with a pro forma ratio of consolidated senior secured debt (as defined in the senior secured credit facilities), which is net of unrestricted cash and marketable securities and excludes the
indebtedness under the second lien credit facility, to Covenant EBITDA not exceeding 3.00 to 1.00 under the more restrictive of the facilities and subject to the other restrictions set forth in the
credit documents. Additionally, the senior secured credit facilities contain events of default that are customary for similar facilities and transactions, including, among others,
non-payment, breach of covenants, other defaults, change of control, misrepresentations and a cross-default provision with respect to any other indebtedness. As of December 31,
2009, Generac Power Systems was in compliance with all covenants.

The
principal amount of the first lien term loan amortizes in equal installments of $2.375 million on the last date of each fiscal quarter through September 30, 2013, with
a final payment of $875.081 million on
November 10, 2013. All scheduled quarterly amortizations prior to the final payment have been satisfied by our March 2010 prepayment of first lien debt of $138.5 million. Any amounts
outstanding under the revolving credit facility are due on November 10, 2012. The principal amount of the second lien term loan facility was due on May 10, 2014, but was paid in full on
February 17, 2010 with the proceeds from the IPO.

Both
the first lien and second lien credit facility grant Generac Power Systems the option to prepay its borrowings under the term loans or the revolving credit facility, subject to the
procedures set forth in the credit documents. In certain circumstances, Generac Power Systems may be required to make prepayments on its borrowings if it receives proceeds as a result of certain asset
sales, debt issuances, casualty or similar events of loss or if Generac Power Systems has excess cash flow (as defined in the senior secured credit facilities).



As
of December 31, 2009, $910.7 million of borrowings were outstanding under the first lien term loan, and $180.8 million of borrowings were outstanding under the
second lien term loan. As of December 31, 2008, $930.1 million of borrowings were outstanding under the first lien term loan and $200.8 million of borrowings were outstanding
under the second lien term loan. As previously disclosed, on February 17, 2010, we used approximately $221.6 million of the net proceeds of our initial public offering to pay down our
second lien term loans in full and to repay a portion of our first lien term loans. In March 2010, we used a substantial portion of our cash and cash equivalents on hand to repay an additional
$138.5 million of our first lien term loan. As a result of these pay downs, at March 19, 2010 the outstanding balance on the first lien credit facility had been reduced to
$731.4 million.

Contractual obligations

The following table summarizes our expected payments for significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009:

Payment due by period

(Dollars in thousands)

Contractual obligations

Total

Less than 1 year

2-3 years

4-5 years

After

5 years

Long-term debt, including current portion(1)

$

1,091,539

$

39,076

$

19,000

$

1,033,463

—

Interest on long-term debt(2)

144,189

36,229

71,751

36,209

—

Operating leases




—

—

Total contractual cash obligations(3)

$

1,236,113

$

75,490

$

90,951

$

1,069,672

$

—

(1)

Includes
$9.5 million of required quarterly term loan installments and $29.6 million of annual excess cash flow payment due in 2010. Does not
take into effect the repayment of debt in February 2010 from the proceeds of our initial public offering, or the additional payment of debt made in March 2010 from available cash on hand.

(2)

Assumes
all debt will remain outstanding until maturity and using the interest rates in effect for our senior secured credit facilities as of
December 31, 2009.

(3)

Pension
obligations are excluded from this table as we are unable to estimate the timing of payment due to the inherent assumptions underlying the
obligation. No minimum required contribution is expected to our pension plans in 2010.

Capital expenditures

Our operations require capital expenditures for technology, tooling, equipment, capacity expansion and upgrades. Capital expenditures
were $4.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and were funded through cash from operations. Capital expenditures were $5.2 million for the year ended December 31,
2008, and were funded through cash from operations.

Off-balance sheet arrangements

We have an arrangement with a finance company to provide floor plan financing for selected dealers. This arrangement provides liquidity
for our dealers by financing dealer purchases of products with credit availability from the finance company. We receive payment from the finance company within a few days of shipment and our dealers
are given a longer period of time to pay the finance provider. If our dealers do not pay the finance company, we may be required to repurchase the applicable inventory held by the dealer. For financed
purchases prior to April 2009, we also indemnify the financing company for credit losses up to 50% of the financed balance where inventory cannot be returned. In 2009, we entered into a floor plan
financing arrangement with another financing company



under
which we do not indemnify the financing company for credit losses associated with unreturnable inventory.

Total
inventory financed accounted for approximately 5% of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 and approximately 4% of net sales for the year ended December 31,
2009. The amount financed by dealers which remained outstanding was $7.5 million and $7.4 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2009, respectively.

Inflation

We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our results of operations. However, our business could be affected by
inflation in the future.

Critical accounting policies

In preparing the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., management is required
to make estimates and assumptions that have an impact on the asset, liability, revenue and expense amounts reported. These estimates can also affect supplemental information disclosures of the
Company, including information about contingencies, risk and financial condition. The Company believes, given current facts and
circumstances, that its estimates and assumptions are reasonable, adhere to accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., and are consistently applied. Inherent in the nature of an estimate or
assumption is the fact that actual results may differ from estimates and estimates may vary as new facts and circumstances arise. The Company makes routine estimates and judgments in determining net
realizable value of accounts receivable, inventories, property, plant and equipment, and prepaid expenses. Management believes the Company's most critical accounting estimates and assumptions are in
the following areas: goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment assessment, defined benefit pension obligations, estimates of allowance for doubtful accounts, excess and obsolete
inventory reserves, product warranty, other contingencies, derivative accounting, and income taxes.

Goodwill and other intangible assets

We perform an annual impairment test for goodwill and trade names and more frequently if an event or circumstances indicate that an
impairment loss has been incurred. Conditions that would trigger an impairment assessment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate that could
affect the value of an asset. The analysis of potential impairment of goodwill requires a two-step process. The first step is the estimation of fair value of the applicable reporting unit.
We have determined we have one reporting unit, and all significant decisions are made on a companywide basis by our chief operating decision maker. Estimated fair value is based on management
judgments and assumptions with the assistance of a third-party valuation firm, and those fair values are compared with our aggregate carrying value. If our fair value is greater than the carrying
amount, there is no impairment. If our carrying amount is greater than the fair value, then the second step must be completed to measure the amount of impairment, if any.

The
second step calculates the implied fair value of the goodwill, which is compared to its carrying value. The implied fair value of goodwill is calculated by valuing all of the
tangible and intangible assets of the reporting unit at the hypothetical fair value, assuming the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. The excess of the fair value of the entire
reporting unit over the fair value of its identifiable assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of goodwill,
an impairment loss is recognized equal to the difference.

As
of October 31, 2008, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test. Our fair value was estimated based on a weighted analysis of discounted cash flows and comparable public
company



analysis
(i.e., market approach). The rate used in determining discounted cash flows is a rate corresponding to our weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for risk where appropriate. In
determining the estimated future cash flows, current and future levels of income are considered as well as business trends and market conditions. Due to an increase in the our weighted average cost of
capital and lower comparable public company market values resulting from weakening economic conditions, the analysis indicated the potential for impairment.

We
performed the second step of the goodwill impairment evaluation with the assistance of a third-party valuation firm and determined an impairment of goodwill existed. Accordingly, a
non-cash charge of $503.2 million was recognized in 2008 for goodwill impairment.

We
performed our annual fair value-based impairment test on trade names as of October 31, 2008. As a result of the test, we recorded a non-cash charge of
$80.3 million for trade name impairment. The primary reason for this impairment charge related to a re-branding strategy, which was committed to in the fourth quarter of 2008 and
resulted in our plan to discontinue use of the Guardian® trade name over time as we consolidate brands under the Generac label. Accordingly, this particular trade name was written down to
its estimated realizable value of $8.7 million, which will be amortized over its remaining useful life of two years.

As
of October 31, 2009, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test, which indicated a premium over net book value of 71%. The testing determined that there was no impairment
of goodwill at that time. In addition, we performed our annual fair value-based impairment test on trade names as of October 31, 2009. The testing determined that there was no impairment of our
trade names at that time.

We
can make no assurances that remaining goodwill or trade names will not be impaired in the future. When preparing a discounted cash flow analysis, we make a number of key estimates and
assumptions. We estimate the future cash flows of the business based on historical and forecasted revenues and operating costs. This, in turn, involves further estimates, such as estimates of future
growth rates and inflation rates. In addition, we apply a discount rate to the estimated future cash flows for the purpose of the valuation. This discount rate is based on the estimated weighted
average cost of capital for the business and may change from year to year. Weighted average cost of capital includes certain assumptions such as market capital structures, market betas,
risk-free rate of return and estimated costs of borrowing. Changes in these key estimates and assumptions, or in other assumptions used in this process, could materially affect our
impairment analysis for a given year. Additionally, since our measurement also considers a market approach, changes in comparable public company multiples can also materially impact our impairment
analysis.

In
the long term, our remaining goodwill and trade name balances could be further impaired in future periods. A number of factors, many of which we have no ability to control, could
affect our financial condition, operating results and business prospects and could cause actual results to differ from the estimates and assumptions we employed. These factors
include:

•

a prolonged global economic crisis;

•

a significant decrease in the demand for our products;

•

the inability to develop new and enhanced products and services in a timely manner;

•

a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate;

•

an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; and

•

successful efforts by our competitors to gain market share in our markets.

Our
cash flow assumptions are based on historical and forecasted revenue, operating costs and other relevant factors. If management's estimates of future operating results change or if
there are



changes
to other assumptions, the estimate of the fair value of our business may change significantly. Such change could result in impairment charges in future periods, which could have a significant
impact on our operating results and financial condition.

Defined benefit pension obligations

The funded status of our pension plans is more fully described in Note 9 to our audited consolidated financial statements
included in Item 8 of this annual report. As discussed
in Note 9, the pension benefit obligation and related pension expense or income are calculated in accordance with ASC 715-30,

Defined Benefit
Plans—Pension

, and are impacted by certain actuarial assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected rate of return on plan assets.

Rates
are evaluated on an annual basis considering such factors as market interest rates and historical asset performance. Actuarial valuations for fiscal year 2009 used a discount rate
of 6.28% and an expected rate of return on plan assets of 7.66%. Our discount rate was selected using a methodology that matches plan cash flows with a selection of Moody's Aa or higher rated bonds,
resulting in a discount rate that better matches a bond yield curve with comparable cash flows. In estimating the expected return on plan assets, we study historical markets and preserve the
long-term historical relationships between equities and fixed-income securities. We evaluate current market factors such as inflation and interest rates before we determine
long-term capital market assumptions and review peer data and historical returns to check for reasonableness and appropriateness. Changes in the discount rate and return on assets can have
a significant effect on the funded status of our pension plans, stockholders' equity and related expense. We cannot predict these changes in discount rates or investment returns and, therefore, cannot
reasonably estimate whether the impact in subsequent years will be significant.

The
funded status of our pension plans is the difference between the projected benefit obligation and the fair value of its plan assets. The projected benefit obligation is the actuarial
present value of all benefits expected to be earned by the employees' service adjusted for future potential wage increases.

Our
funding policy for our pension plans is to contribute amounts at least equal to the minimum annual amount required by applicable regulations. Given this policy, we expect to make no
contributions to our pension plans in 2010.

Allowance for doubtful accounts, excess and obsolete inventory reserves, product warranty reserves and other contingencies

The reserves, if any, for customer rebates, product warranty, product liability, litigation, excess and obsolete inventory and doubtful
accounts are fact-specific and take into account such factors as specific customer situations, historical experience, and current and expected economic conditions. These reserves are
reflected under Notes 2, 3, 4 and 13 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report.

Derivative accounting

We have interest rate swap contracts, or the Swaps, in place to fix a portion of our variable rate indebtedness. For 2007 and 2008, the
Swaps were deemed highly effective per ASC 815 (formerly SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

) and
therefore, any changes in fair value of these Swaps is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). As of January 3, 2009, in accordance with the terms of our senior secured
credit facilities, we changed the interest rate election from three-month LIBOR to one-month LIBOR. As a result, we concluded that as of January 3, 2009, the Swaps no longer met
hedge effectiveness criteria under SFAS No. 133. Future changes in the fair value of the Swaps will be immediately recognized in our statement of operations as interest expense, while the
effective portion of the Swaps prior to the change will remain in



accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) and will be amortized as interest expense over the period of the originally designated hedged transactions scheduled to end on January 4, 2010.

We
estimated the fair value of the Swaps pursuant to ASC 815

Derivatives and Hedging

, which defines fair value, establishes a consistent
framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosure for each major asset and liability category measured at fair value. When determining the fair value of the Swaps, we considered our credit
risk in accordance with ASC 815. The fair value of the Swaps, including the impact of credit risk, at December 31, 2008 and 2009 was a liability of $24.2 million and $0.0 million,
respectively.

Income taxes

We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740

Income Taxes

. Our estimate of
income taxes payable, deferred income taxes and the effective tax rate is based on an analysis of many factors including interpretations of federal and state income tax laws, the difference between
tax and financial reporting bases of assets and liabilities, estimates of amounts currently due or owed in various jurisdictions, and current accounting standards. We review and update our estimates
on a quarterly basis as facts and circumstances change and actual results are known.

We
have generated significant deferred tax assets as a result of goodwill and intangible asset book versus tax differences as well as significant net operating loss carryforwards. In
assessing the realizability of these deferred tax assets, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate
realization of deferred tax
assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the years in which those temporary differences become deductible. We consider the scheduled reversal of deferred tax
liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. As a result of this analysis, we have recorded a full valuation allowance against these net deferred
tax assets.

New Accounting Standards

In December 2007, the FASB originally issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations (codified in ASC topic 805). This statement
requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction, establishes the acquisition-date fair value as the
measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and requires the acquirer to disclose certain information related to the nature and financial effect of the business combination.
SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for business combinations entered into in fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact
on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, however this standard will impact accounting for any future acquisition transactions.

In
March 2008, the FASB originally issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of SFAS No. 133 (SFAS No. 161,
codified in ASC topic 815). SFAS No. 161 is intended to improve financial standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities by requiring enhanced disclosures to enable investors to
better understand the effect these instruments and activities have on an entity's financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. Entities are required to provide enhanced disclosures
about: how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and its related interpretations; and how
derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity's financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. The Company adopted SFAS No. 161 on January 1, 2009, which
impacted disclosures relating to the Company's hedging activities.

On
December 30, 2008, the FASB originally issued FSP No. FAS 132(R)-1 Employer's Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Assets (codified in ASC Topic
715-20, Defined Benefit Plans (ASC-715-20)) related to employers' disclosures regarding postretirement benefit plan assets. This



statement
provides additional guidance on employers' disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. ASC 715-20 is effective for periods ending
after December 15, 2009, on a prospective basis. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In
April 2008, the FASB originally issued FSP No. FASB 142-3, Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets (FSP No. FAS No. 142-3)
(codified in ASC Topic 350, Intangible—Goodwill and Other). FSP No. FASB 142-3 prospectively amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or
extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset. The intent of the position is to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible
asset under FSP No. FASB 142-3 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under FSP No. FASB 142-3. The Company adopted
this pronouncement on January 1, 2009. The adoption of this pronouncement did not have a material impact to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. To reduce the risk
from changes in certain foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, we use financial instruments from time to time. We do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes.

Foreign currency

We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk as a result of purchasing from suppliers in other countries. Periodically, we utilize
foreign currency forward purchase and sales contracts to manage the volatility associated with foreign currency purchases in the normal course of business. Contracts typically have maturities of one
year or less. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on transactions denominated in foreign currency are recorded in earnings as a component of cost of goods sold. At December 31, 2009 and
December 31, 2008, we had no foreign exchange contracts outstanding.

On
February 18, 2010, we entered into a ten-month foreign currency average rate option transaction for Euros with a total notional amount of $2.5 million. The
primary objective is to mitigate the impact of potential price fluctuations of the Euro on our financial results.

Commodity prices

We are a purchaser of commodities and of components manufactured from commodities, including steel, aluminum, copper and others. As a
result, we are exposed to fluctuating market prices for those commodities. While such materials are typically available from numerous suppliers, commodity raw materials are subject to price
fluctuations. We generally buy these commodities and components based upon market prices that are established with the supplier as part of the purchase process. Depending on the supplier, these market
prices may reset on a periodic basis based on negotiated lags. To the extent that commodity prices increase and we do not have firm pricing from our suppliers, or our suppliers are not able to honor
such prices, we may experience a decline in our gross margins to the extent we are not able to increase selling prices of our products or obtain manufacturing efficiencies to offset increases in
commodity costs.

Periodically,
we engage in certain commodity risk management activities. The primary objectives of these activities are to understand and mitigate the impact of potential price
fluctuations on our financial results. Generally, these risk management transactions will involve the use of commodity derivatives to protect against exposure resulting from significant price
fluctuations.



We
primarily utilize commodity contracts with maturities of one year or less. These are intended to offset the effect of price fluctuations on actual inventory purchases. At
December 31, 2008, there were two outstanding commodity contracts in place to hedge our projected commodity purchases. Total gains or losses recognized in the statements of operations on
commodity contracts were a loss of $1,092,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009, there was one outstanding commodity contract in place to hedge our projected
commodity purchases. Total gains or losses recognized in the statements of operations on commodity contracts were a $387,000 gain for the year ended December 31, 2009.

On
October 5, 2009, we entered into a six-month commodity hedge transaction for copper with a total notional amount of $1.4 million. The primary objective of
the hedge is to mitigate the impact of potential price fluctuations of copper on our financial results.

Interest rates

As of December 31, 2009, a portion of the outstanding debt under our term loans was subject to floating interest rate risk. We
previously entered into interest rate swaps with certain banks. The notional amount of these swaps was $675.0 million as of December 31, 2009. These swaps expired on January 4,
2010. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of the swaps reduced for our credit risk and excluding related accrued interest was a liability of $0.0 million. For further information on
these swaps, see Note 5 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report. Even after giving effect to these swaps, we are exposed to risks due to
changes in interest rates with respect to the portion of our term loans that are not covered by these swaps. A hypothetical change in the LIBOR interest rate of 100 basis points would have changed
annual cash interest expense by approximately $4.2 million (or, without the swaps in place, $10.9 million).

The
above interest rate swap agreements terminated on January 4, 2010. We entered into a new interest rate swap agreement with a certain bank on January 21, 2010. The
effective date of the swap is July 1, 2010 with a notional amount of $200,000,000, a fixed rate of 1.73% and an expiration date of July 1, 2012. We expect to maintain the swap as highly
effective in accordance with ASC 815 (formerly SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

) and, therefore, any
changes in the fair value of the swap would be recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).



Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The
Board of Directors and Stockholders

of Generac Holdings Inc.

We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Generac Holdings Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, redeemable stock and stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company's internal control over financial
reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose
of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Generac Holdings Inc. and subsidiaries
at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

Milwaukee,
Wisconsin

March 30, 2010



Generac Holdings Inc.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(Dollars in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data)

December 31,

Pro Forma

December 31,




Notes 1 and 14

(unaudited)

Assets

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

161,307

$

81,229

Accounts and notes receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts of $1,981 in 2009 and $1,985 in 2008

54,130

66,241

Inventories

123,700

123,980

Prepaid expenses and other assets

5,880

3,547

Total current assets

345,017

274,997

Property and equipment, net

73,374

76,674

Customer lists, net

134,674

173,104

Patents, net

92,753

100,574

Other intangible assets, net

7,791

9,142

Deferred financing costs, net

13,070

16,885

Trade names

144,407

148,765

Goodwill

525,875

525,875

Other assets



Total assets

$

1,337,243

$

1,326,214

Liabilities and stockholders' equity

Current liabilities:

Accounts payable

$

33,639

$

54,525

Accrued wages and employee benefits

6,930

5,064

Other accrued liabilities

52,326

58,892

Current portion of long-term debt

39,076

9,500

Total current liabilities

131,971

127,981

Long-term debt

1,052,463

1,121,437

Other long-term liabilities

17,418

43,539

Total liabilities

1,201,852

1,292,957

Class B convertible voting common stock, par value $0.01, 110,000 shares authorized, 24,018 shares issued at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively—see Notes 1 and 14

—

765,096

765,096

Series A convertible non-voting preferred stock, par value $0.01, 30,000 shares authorized, 11,311 and 7,835 shares issued at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively

—

113,109

78,355

Stockholders' equity:

Class A non-voting common stock, par value $0.01, 500,000,000 shares authorized, 1,617 and 1,736 shares issued at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively—see note 1 and 14


—

—

Additional paid-in capital

880,135

2,394

2,356

Excess purchase price over predecessor basis

(202,116

)

(202,116

)

(202,116

)

Accumulated deficit

(538,571

)

(538,571

)

(581,626

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(4,492

)

(4,492

)

(28,650

)

Stockholder notes receivable

(29

)

(29

)

(158

)

Total stockholders' equity

135,391

(742,814

)

(810,194

)

Total liabilities and stockholders' equity

$

1,337,243

$

1,326,214

See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Operations

(Dollars in Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data)

Year Ended December 31,




Net sales

$

588,248

$

574,229

$

555,705

Costs of goods sold

352,398

372,199

333,428

Gross profit

235,850

202,030

222,277

Operating expenses:

Selling and service

59,823

57,449

52,652

Research and development

10,842

9,925

9,606

General and administrative

14,713

15,869

17,581

Amortization of intangibles

51,960

47,602

47,602

Goodwill impairment

—

503,193

—

Tradename impairment

—

80,293

—

Total operating expenses

137,338

714,331

127,441

Income (loss) from operations

98,512

(512,301

)

94,836

Other (expense) income:

Interest expense

(70,862

)

(108,022

)

(125,366

)

Gain on extinguishment of debt

14,745

65,385

18,759

Investment income

2,205


2,682

Other, net

(1,206

)

(1,217

)

(1,196

)

Total other expense, net

(55,118

)

(43,254

)

(105,121

)

Income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes

43,394

(555,555

)

(10,285

)

Provision (benefit) for income taxes



(571

)

Net income (loss)

43,055

(555,955

)

(9,714

)

Preferential distribution to:

Series A preferred stockholders

(14,151

)

(785

)

—

Class B common stockholders

(100,191

)

(90,567

)

(73,676

)

Net loss attributable to Class A common stockholders

$

(71,287

)

$

(647,307

)

$

(83,390

)

Net (loss) income per common share, basic and diluted:

Class A common stock—see Notes 1 and 14

$

(41,111

)

$

(357,628

)

$

(34,994

)

Class B common stock—see Notes 1 and 14

$

4,171

$

3,780

$

3,462

Pro forma net income per common share, basic and diluted (Note 14—unaudited):

Class A common stock

$

1.00

Weighted average common shares outstanding:

Class A common stock—see Notes 1 and 14

1,734

1,810

2,383

Class B common stock—see Notes 1 and 14

24,018

23,961

21,282

Pro forma weighted average common shares outstanding:

Class A common stock

43,247,085

See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Redeemable Stock and Stockholders' Equity (Deficit)

(Dollars in Thousands, Except Share Data)

Redeemable

Series A

Preferred Stock

Class B

Common Stock

Class A

Common Stock

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Income

(Loss)

Excess

Purchase Price

Over

Predecessor Basis

Retained

Earnings

(Accumulated

Deficit)

Additional

Paid-In

Capital

Stockholder

Notes

Receivable

Total

Stockholders'

Equity

Comprehensive

Income

(Loss)

Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

Shares

Amount

see Notes

1 and 14

see Notes

1 and 14

Balance at December 31, 2006

—

$

—

20,816

$

685,667

2,519

$

—

$

2,840

$

(202,116

)

$

(15,957

)

$


$

—

$

(214,773

)

Unrealized loss on interest rate swaps

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(18,511

)

—

(18,511

)

(18,511

)

Issuance of stockholder notes receivable

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(195

)

(195

)

—

Contribution of capital related to debt extinguishment

—

—

2,436

59,953

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Proceeds from shares issued to directors

—

—


1,450

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Proceeds from shares issued to management

—

—

—

—


—


—

—

—

—


—

Repurchase of shares from management

—

—

—

—

(804

)

—

(904

)

—

—

—

—

(904

)

—

Stock-based compensation expense

—

—

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

—


—

Net loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(9,714

)

—

—

(9,714

)

(9,714

)

Pension liability adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2,238

—

2,238

2,238

Amortization of restricted stock expense

—

—

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

—


—

$

(25,987

)

Balance at December 31, 2007

—

—

23,296

747,070

1,904

—

2,505

(202,116

)

(25,671

)

(15,813

)

(195

)

(241,290

)

Unrealized loss on interest rate swaps

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(5,715

)

—

(5,715

)

$

(5,715

)

Repayment of stockholder notes receivable

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—



—

Contribution of capital related to debt extinguishment

6,285

62,855


18,249

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Contribution of capital

1,550

15,500

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Repurchase of shares from management

—

—

(7

)

(223

)

(168

)

—

(189

)

—

—

—

—

(189

)

—

Net loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(555,955

)

—

—

(555,955

)

(555,955

)

Amortization of restricted stock expense

—

—

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

—


—

Pension liability adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(7,122

)

—

(7,122

)

(7,122

)

$

(568,792

)

Balance at December 31, 2008

7,835

$

78,355

24,018

$

765,096

1,736

$

—

$

2,356

$

(202,116

)

$

(581,626

)

$

(28,650

)

$

(158

)

$

(810,194

)

Amortization of unrealized loss on interest rate swaps

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

24,222

—

24,222

$

24,222

Repayment of stockholder notes receivable

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—



—

Cancellation of stock

—

—

—

—

(118

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Contribution of capital related to debt extinguishment

1,476

14,754

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Proceeds from shares issued to management and directors



—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Proceeds from shares issued to stockholders

1,950

19,503

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

43,055

—

—

43,055

43,055

Amortization of restricted stock expense

—

—

—

—

—

—


—

—

—

—


—

Pension liability adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(64

)

—

(64

)

(64

)

$

67,213

Balance at December 31, 2009

11,311

$

113,109

24,018

$

765,096

1,617

$

—

$

2,394

$

(202,116

)

$

(538,571

)

$

(4,492

)

$

(29

)

$

(742,814

)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

(Dollars in Thousands)

Year Ended December 31,




Operating activities

Net income (loss)

$

43,055

$

(555,955

)

$

(9,714

)

Adjustment to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation

7,715

7,168

6,181

Amortization

51,960

47,602

47,602

Goodwill and tradename impairment charge

—

583,486

—

Gain on extinguishment of debt

(14,745

)

(65,385

)

(18,759

)

Amortization of deferred finance costs

3,417

3,905

4,225

Amortization of unrealized loss on interest rate swaps

24,222

—

—

Provision for losses on accounts receivable




Provision for losses on notes receivable

—



Loss on disposal of property and equipment




Stock-based compensation expense—restricted stock




Stock-based compensation expense—Class B common stock

—

—


Net changes in operating assets and liabilities:

Accounts receivable

11,779

(20,768

)

4,808

Inventories


(26,366

)

21,372

Other assets

(1,739

)

(617

)

(1,794

)

Accounts payable

(20,886

)

34,449

(3,369

)

Accrued wages and employee benefits

1,280

(806

)


Other accrued liabilities

(32,037

)

2,910

(14,164

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

74,607

10,224

38,513

Investing activities

Proceeds from sale of property and equipment




Expenditures for property and equipment

(4,525

)

(5,186

)

(13,191

)

Collections on receivable notes




Net cash used in investing activities

(4,351

)

(5,038

)

(12,732

)

Financing activities

Stockholders' contributions of capital—Class B common stock

$

—

$

—

$

1,450

Stockholders' contributions of capital—Class A common stock

—

—


Stockholders' contributions of capital—Series A preferred stock

20,000

15,500

—

Repurchase of shares from management—Class B common stock

—

(224

)

—

Repurchase of shares from management—Class A common stock

—

(189

)

(904

)

Payment of expenses incurred in advance of stock issuance

(678

)

—

—

Issuance of stockholder notes receivable

—

—

(195

)

Repayment of stockholder notes receivable

—


—

Payment of long-term debt

(9,500

)

(10,396

)

(9,500

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

9,822

4,728

(8,937

)

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

80,078

9,914

16,844

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

81,229

71,315

54,471

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

$

161,307

$

81,229

$

71,315

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information

Cash paid during the period

Interest

$

75,601

$

109,431

$

101,632

Income taxes



4,777

Supplemental disclosure of noncash financing and investing activities

Contributions of capital related to debt extinguishment

$

14,754

$

81,105

$

59,953

See notes to consolidated financial statements



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

1. Description of Business

Generac Holdings Inc. (the Company) owns all of the common stock of Generac Acquisition Corp., which in turn, owns all of the common stock of Generac Power Systems, Inc.
(the Subsidiary). The Company designs, manufactures, and markets a complete line of backup power generation products for residential, light-commercial, and industrial markets.

On
February 10, 2010, as part of the Corporate Reorganization, the Company completed a 3.294 for 1 reverse stock split (reverse stock split) for Class A common and
Class B common shares that were outstanding prior to the completion of its initial public offering. All share and per share data have been retrospectively restated to reflect the reverse stock
split.

Initial Public Offering and Conversion of Class B Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock

On February 17, 2010, we completed our initial public offering (IPO) of 18,750,000 shares of our common stock at a price of
$13.00 per share. In addition, the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option outlined in the underwriters agreement, and purchased an additional 1,950,500 shares of the Company's
common stock on March 18, 2010. We received approximately $269,100,000 in gross proceeds from the IPO and over-allotment exercise, or $247,800,000 in net proceeds after deducting
the underwriting discount and total expenses related to the offering. Upon closing of the IPO, all shares of convertible Class B Common stock and Series A preferred stock were
automatically converted into 88,476,530 and 19,511,018 Class A Common shares, respectively. The 88,476,530 shares of Class A Common stock were subject to a 3.294 for 1 reverse stock
split, resulting in 26,859,906 Class A Common shares related to the Class B Common stock conversion. Subsequent to the IPO, the Company has one class of common stock.

Capitalization
summary upon closing of initial public offering:

Class A Common stock issued and outstanding at December 31, 2009

5,326

Class A Common stock issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2009 after the 3.294 for 1 reverse stock split

1,617

Conversion and 3.294 for 1 reverse stock split of Class B Common stock into Common stock upon closing of IPO

26,859,906

Conversion of Series A Preferred stock into Common stock upon closing of IPO

19,511,018

Sales of Common stock through IPO

18,750,000

Issuance of non-vested Common stock upon closing of IPO

456,249

Common stock issued and outstanding after IPO

65,578,790

Issuance of Common stock to underwriters due to exercise of over-allotment

1,950,500

Total Common stock issued and outstanding as of March 18, 2010

67,529,290

The
Company determined that the conversion features in the Class B Common stock and Series A Preferred stock were in-the-money at the date of
issuance and therefore represent a beneficial conversion feature. Since the Class B Common stock and Series A Preferred stock are convertible upon an initial public offering, conversion
was contingent upon a future event and therefore the beneficial



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

1. Description of Business (Continued)

conversion
feature has not been recorded in the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2009. The beneficial conversion feature at the IPO date was $140,690,000 and was recorded at
the IPO date as a return to Class B Common and Series A Preferred stockholders analogous to a dividend. The beneficial conversion was recorded within additional
paid-in-capital, as no retained earnings were available.

2. Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany amounts
and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Cash Equivalents

The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Concentration of Credit Risk

The Company maintains the majority of its cash in one commercial bank. Balances on deposit are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC) up to specified limits. Balances in excess of FDIC limits are uninsured.

Two
customers accounted for approximately 13% and 12% of accounts receivable at December 31, 2009. Two customers accounted for approximately 13% and 11% of accounts receivable at
December 31, 2008. No one customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, or 2007.

Accounts Receivable

Receivables are recorded at their face value amount less an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company estimates and records an
allowance for doubtful accounts based on specific identification and historical experience. The Company writes off uncollectible accounts against the allowance for doubtful accounts after all
collection efforts have been exhausted. Sales are generally made on an unsecured basis.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the first-in, first-out
method.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are recorded at cost and are being depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful lives of the assets, which are summarized below (in years). Costs of



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

2. Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

leasehold
improvements are amortized over the lesser of the term of the lease (including renewal option periods) or the estimated useful lives of the improvements.

Land improvements


Buildings and improvements


Leasehold improvements

10 - 20

Machinery and equipment

5 - 10

Dies and tools

3 - 5

Vehicles

3 - 5

Office equipment

3 - 10

Customer Lists, Patents, and Other Intangible Assets

The following table summarizes intangible assets by major category as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in thousands):



Weighted

Average

Amortization

Years

Cost

Accumulated

Amortization

Amortized

Cost

Cost

Accumulated

Amortization

Amortized

Cost

Indefinite lived intangible assets

Tradenames

$

140,050

$

—

$

140,050

$

140,050

$

—

$

140,050

Finite lived intangible assets

Tradenames


8,715

(4,358

)

4,357

8,715

—

8,715

Customer lists


256,760

(122,086

)

134,674

256,760

(83,656

)

173,104

Patents


117,811

(25,058

)

92,753

117,811

(17,237

)

100,574

Unpatented technology


11,015

(3,840

)

7,175

11,015

(2,616

)

8,399

Software


1,014

(398

)


1,014

(271

)


Total finite lived intangible assets


$

395,315

$

(155,740

)

$

239,575

$

395,315

$

(103,780

)

$

291,535

Amortization
of intangible assets was $51,960,000 in 2009 and $47,602,000 in 2008 and 2007. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company recorded an impairment related to its
indefinite lived intangible assets. See the Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets section for further discussion. Estimated amortization expense each year for the five years subsequent
to December 31, 2009 is as follows: 2010, $51,829,000; 2011, $47,471,000, 2012, $43,220,000; 2013, $21,347,000; 2014, $13,949,000.

Deferred Financing Costs

Costs incurred in connection with the issuance of long-term debt have been capitalized and are being amortized using the
effective interest rate method over the life of the related debt agreements. Deferred financing costs incurred in connection with the financing on November 10, 2006, totaled $29,571,000.
Amortization expense was $3,417,000, $3,905,000, and $4,225,000 for the years ended



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

2. Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

December 31,
2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. As a result of the debt extinguishments in 2009, 2008, and 2007 (see Note 5), $398,000, $2,427,000 and $1,539,000 of the deferred
financing costs were written off, respectively, and recorded as a reduction to the gain on the extinguishment of debt (see Note 5). Accumulated amortization was $16,501,000 and $12,686,000 at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Amortization expense is included in interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations. Amortization expense for each of the next three
years is expected to be approximately $3,386,000 and $2,912,000 in year four.

Long-Lived Assets

The Company periodically evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets (excluding goodwill and trade names).
Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If the sum of the expected future
undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of an asset, a loss is recognized for the difference between the fair value and carrying value of the asset. Such analyses necessarily involve
significant judgments.

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

Goodwill represents the excess of the amount paid to acquire the Company over the estimated fair value of the net tangible and
intangible assets acquired as of the acquisition date.

Other
indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of trade names. The fair value of trade names was measured using a relief-from-royalty approach, which assumes
the fair value of the trade name is the discounted cash flows of the amount that would be paid had the Company not owned the trade name and instead licensed the trade name from another company.

The
Company performs an annual impairment test for goodwill and trade names and more frequently if an event or circumstances indicate that an impairment loss has been incurred.
Conditions that would trigger an impairment assessment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate that could affect the value of an asset. The
analysis of potential impairment of goodwill requires a two-step process. The first step is the estimation of fair value of the applicable reporting unit. The Company has determined it has
one reporting unit as the Company considers itself one business, and all significant decisions are made on a companywide basis by its chief decision maker. Estimated fair value is based on management
judgments and assumptions and those fair values are compared with the aggregate carrying value of the Company. If the fair value of the Company is greater than its carrying amount, there is no
impairment. If the Company carrying amount is greater than the fair value, then the second step must be completed to measure the amount of impairment, if any. The second step calculates the implied
fair value of the goodwill, which is compared to its carrying value. If the implied fair value is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the difference.

As
of October 31, 2009, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment test. The fair value of the Company was estimated based on a weighted average of a discounted cash
flow analysis and comparable public company analysis (i.e. market approach). The rate used in determining discounted cash flows is a rate corresponding to the Company's cost of capital,
adjusted for risk where



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

2. Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

appropriate.
In determining the estimated future cash flows, current and future levels of income are considered as well as business trends and market conditions. There was no goodwill impairment
indicated as of October 31, 2009.

As
of October 31, 2008, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment test. The fair value of the Company was estimated based on a weighted average of a discounted cash
flow analysis and comparable public company analysis (i.e. market approach). The rate used in determining discounted
cash flows is a rate corresponding to the Company's cost of capital, adjusted for risk where appropriate. In determining the estimated future cash flows, current and future levels of income are
considered as well as business trends and market conditions. Due to an increase in the Company's weighted average cost of capital and lower comparable public company market values resulting from
weakening economic conditions, the analysis indicated the potential for impairment. With the assistance of a third-party valuation firm, the Company performed the second step and determined an
impairment of goodwill existed. Accordingly, a non-cash charge of $503,193,000 was recognized in 2008 for goodwill impairment. There was no impairment recorded for the year ended
December 31, 2007.

The
changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 are as follows (dollars in thousands):

For the year ended December 31, 2009

For the year ended December 31, 2008

Gross

Accumulated

Impairment

Net

Goodwill

Gross

Accumulated

Impairment

Net

Goodwill

Balance at beginning of year

$

1,029,068

$

503,193

$

525,875

$

1,029,068

$

—

$

1,029,068

Impairment charge

—

—

—

—

503,193

503,193

Balance at end of year

$

1,029,068

$

503,193

$

525,875

$

1,029,068

$

503,193

$

525,875

The
Company performed its annual fair value-based impairment test on indefinite lived trade names as of October 31, 2009. No impairment was indicated.

The
Company performed its annual fair value-based impairment test on trade names as of October 31, 2008. As a result of the test, the Company recorded a non-cash
charge of $80,293,000 for trade name impairment. The primary reason for this impairment charge related to a re-branding strategy implemented in the fourth quarter of 2008, which resulted
in the Company's discontinuance of a particular trade name. Accordingly, this trade name was written down to its estimated realizable value of $8,715,000, which will be amortized over its remaining
useful life of 2 years beginning on January 1, 2009. There was no impairment recorded for the year ended December 31, 2007.

Income Taxes

The Company is a C Corporation and, therefore, accounts for income taxes pursuant to the liability method. Accordingly, the current or
deferred tax consequences of a transaction are measured by applying the provision of enacted tax laws to determine the amount of taxes payable currently or in future years. Deferred income taxes are
provided for temporary differences between the income tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax
assets, the Company considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

2. Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

tax
assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the years in which those temporary differences become deductible. The Company considers the scheduled reversal of deferred
tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies, as appropriate, in making this assessment.

Effective
January 1, 2007, the Company adopted the guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740-10 (formerly
referred to as FASB Interpretation 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes

), which provides a comprehensive model for the recognition,
measurement, and disclosure in financial statements of uncertain income tax positions a company has taken or expects to take on an income tax return. Additionally, when applicable, the Company would
classify interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in
income tax expense. Upon adoption, the Company determined no additional reserves for uncertain tax positions were required.

Revenue Recognition

Sales, net of estimated returns and allowances, are recognized upon shipment of product to the customer, which is when title passes,
the Company has no further obligations, and the customer is required to pay. The Company, at the request of certain customers, will warehouse inventory billed to the customer but not delivered. The
Company does not recognize revenue on these transactions until the customers take possession of the product. The funds collected on product warehoused for these customers are recorded as a customer
advance until the customer takes possession of the product and the Company's obligation to deliver the goods is completed. Customer advances are included in accrued liabilities in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets.

The
Company provides for estimated sales promotion and incentive expenses which are recognized as a reduction of sales. Historically, product returns, whether in the normal course of
business or resulting from repurchases made under a floor plan financing program, have not been material. The Company has agreed to repurchase product repossessed by a finance company, which has
resulted in minimal losses to the Company (see Note 10 for further detail). However, an adverse change in dealer sales could cause this situation to change.

Shipping and Handling Costs

Shipping and handling costs billed to customers are included in net sales, and the related costs are included in cost of goods sold in
the consolidated statements of operations.

Advertising and Co-Op Advertising

Expenditures for advertising, included in selling and service expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations, are
expensed as incurred. Total expenditures for advertising were $11,695,000, $9,210,000, and $11,236,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

2. Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Research and Development

The Company expenses research and development costs as incurred. Total expenditures incurred for research and development were
$10,842,000, $9,925,000, and $9,606,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Foreign Currency Transactions

Realized and unrealized gains and losses on transactions denominated in foreign currency are recorded in earnings as a component of
cost of goods sold.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) includes unrealized losses on certain cash flow hedges and the pension liability. The
components of OCI at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were (dollars in thousands):

December 31,



Pension liability

$

(4,492

)

$

(4,428

)

Unrealized losses on cash flow hedges

—

(24,222

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

$

(4,492

)

$

(28,650

)

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The Company believes the carrying amount of its financial instruments (cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, notes
receivable, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities), excluding long-term debt, approximates the fair value of these instruments based upon their short-term nature. The fair
value of long-term debt was approximately $988.7 million at December 31, 2009, as calculated based on current quotations.

Fair Value Measurements

The Company adopted ASC 820-10

Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures

(formerly SFAS No. 157,

Fair Value Measurements

) on January 1, 2008. ASC 820-10, among other things, defines fair value,
establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosure for each major asset and liability category measured at fair value on either a recurring basis or nonrecurring
basis. ASC 820-10 clarifies that fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants. As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that should be determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. As a
basis for considering such assumptions, the pronouncement establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows:
(Level 1) observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; (Level 2) inputs, other than the quoted prices in active markets, that



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

2. Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

are
observable either directly or indirectly; and (Level 3) unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data, which require the reporting entity to develop its own assumptions.

Assets
and liabilities measured at fair value are based on the market approach, which is prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or
comparable assets or liabilities.

Assets
and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are as follows (dollars in thousands):

Fair Value Measurement Using

Total

December 31,


Quoted Prices in Active

Markets for Identical

Contracts (Level 1)

Significant

Other Observable

Inputs

(Level 2)

Net derivative contracts

$


$

—

$


Fair Value Measurement Using

Total

December 31,


Quoted Prices in Active

Markets for Identical

Contracts (Level 1)

Significant

Other Observable

Inputs

(Level 2)

Net derivative contracts

$

25,647

$

—

$

25,647

The
fair value of derivative contracts above consider the Company's credit risk in accordance with ASC 820-10. Excluding the impact of credit risk, the fair value of
derivatives at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $208,000 and $29,000,000, respectively, and this represents the amount the Company would need to receive or pay to exit the agreements on this
date.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

The Company records all derivatives in accordance with ASC 815,

Derivatives and
Hedging

, which requires all derivative instruments be reported on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value and establishes criteria for designation and effectiveness of
hedging relationships. The Company is exposed to market risk such as changes in commodity prices, foreign
currencies, and interest rates. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

2. Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Commodities

The primary objectives of the commodity risk management activities are to understand and mitigate the impact of potential price
fluctuations on the Company's financial results and its economic well-being. While the Company's risk management objectives and strategies will be driven from an economic perspective, the
Company attempts, where possible and practical, to ensure that the hedging strategies it engages in can be treated as "hedges" from an accounting perspective or otherwise result in accounting
treatment where the earnings effect of the hedging instrument provides substantial offset (in the same period) to the earnings effect of the hedged item. Generally, these risk management transactions
will involve the use of commodity derivatives to protect against exposure resulting from significant price fluctuations.

The
Company primarily utilizes commodity contracts with maturities of less than 12 months. These are intended to offset the effect of price fluctuations on actual inventory
purchases. There were one, two, and one outstanding commodity contracts in place to hedge its projected commodity purchases at December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. In October 2009,
the Company entered into commodity swaps to purchase $1,432,000 of copper. The swaps are effective from October 5, 2009, and terminate on March 31, 2010. In October 2008, the Company
entered into commodity swaps to purchase $4,180,000 of copper. The swaps were effective from October 1 and November 1, 2008, and terminated on March 31, 2009. In January 2007, the
Company entered into commodity swaps to purchase $4,597,000 of copper. The swaps were effective from February 1, 2007, and terminated on December 31, 2007. Total losses or gains
recognized in the consolidated statements of operations on commodity contracts were a gain of $387,000, a loss of $1,092,000, and a gain of $1,120,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009,
2008, and 2007, respectively.

Foreign Currencies

The Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange risk as a result of transactions in other currencies. The Company periodically
utilizes foreign currency forward purchase and sales contracts to manage the volatility associated with foreign currency purchases in the normal
course of business. Contracts typically have maturities of one year or less. There were no foreign currency hedge contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2009 or 2008.

Interest Rates

In 2006, the Company entered into various interest rate swap agreements. The Company has formally documented all relationships between
interest rate hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its' risk-management objectives and strategies for undertaking various hedge transactions. From inception through
December 31, 2008, the Company's interest rate swap agreements qualified as cash flow hedges. For derivatives that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the
gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged
transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the derivatives' change in fair value, if any, is immediately recognized in earnings. The Company assesses on an ongoing basis whether
derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

2. Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

The
impact of hedge ineffectiveness on earnings was not material for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Effective
January 3, 2009, the Company, within the terms of the Credit Agreements, changed the interest rate election from three-month LIBOR to one-month LIBOR. The
Company has concluded that as of January 3, 2009, the Swaps no longer meet hedge effectiveness tests and are therefore, no longer highly effective as a hedge against the impact on interest
payments of changes in the LIBOR interest rate. In 2009, the effective portion of the swaps prior to the change was amortized as interest expense over the period of the originally designated hedged
transactions. During 2009, changes in the fair value of the swaps were immediately recognized in the consolidated statements of operations as interest expense.

The
following table presents, in thousands, the fair value of the Company's derivatives:

December 31,


December 31,


Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:

Interest rate swaps

$

—

$

24,222

—

24,222

Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:

Commodity contracts


1,425

Total derivatives

$


$

25,647

As
of December 31, 2009, all derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments are included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet. There were no derivatives
that were designated as hedging instruments at December 31, 2009.

All
derivatives designated as hedging instruments are included in other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2008.

The
fair value of the derivative contracts of $208,000 and $25,647,000 considers the Company's credit risk as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. The
impact of credit risk on the fair value of derivative contracts at December 31, 2009 was not material. Excluding the impact of credit risk, the fair value of the derivatives at
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was $208,000 and $29,000,000, respectively, and this represents the amount the Company would need to receive or pay to exit the agreements on
those dates.

Cash
flow hedges are recorded at fair value with a corresponding entry, net of taxes, recorded in earnings. At December 31, 2009, the notional amount of debt under interest rate
swap agreements outstanding was $675,000,000. Those related interest rate swap agreements terminated on January 4, 2010.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

2. Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

The
following presents the impact of interest rate swaps and commodity contracts on the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (dollars
in thousands):

Amount of

gain (loss)

recognized in net

income (loss)

on hedges

(ineffective portion)

for the

twelve months

ended

December 31,

Amount of loss

reclassified from

AOCI into

net income

(loss) for the

twelve months

ended

December 31,

Amount of loss

recognized in

AOCI for the

twelve months

ended

December 31,

Location of

gain (loss)

reclassified from

AOCI into

net income (loss)







Derivatives designated as hedging instruments

Interest rate swaps

$

—

$

(5,714

)

Interest expense

$

(24,222

)

$

—

$

—

$

—

Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments

Commodity contracts

$

—

$

—

Cost of goods sold

$

—

$

—

$


$

(1,092

)

Interest rate swaps

$

—

$

—

Interest expense

$

—

$

—

$

24,222

$

—

During the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, the impact of derivative instruments on the consolidated statement of operations for the
interest rate swap agreements not designated as hedging instruments was a gain of $24,222,000. There was no impact of derivative instruments on the consolidated statement of operations for the
interest rate swaps for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the impact of derivative instruments on the consolidated
statement of operations for the commodity contracts not designated as hedging instruments was a gain of $387,000 and a loss of $1,092,000, respectively.

Stock-Based Compensation

The Company accounts for its restricted stock awards and other stock-based payments in accordance with ASC Topic 718
Compensation—Stock Compensation (formerly SFAS No. 123(R),

Share Based Payments

(SFAS No. 123(R)). The Company adopted ASC
Topic 718 using the prospective method, accordingly, the provisions of ASC 718 are applied prospectively to new awards and to awards modified, repurchased or cancelled after the adoption date.

Segment Reporting

The Company operates in and reports as a single operating segment, which is the manufacture and sale of power products. Net sales are
generated through the sale of generators and service parts to distributors and retailers. The Company manages and evaluates its operations as one segment primarily due to similarities in the nature of
the products, production processes and methods of distribution. All of the Company's identifiable assets are located in the United States. The Company's sales outside North America are not material,
representing approximately 1% of net sales.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

2. Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

The Company's product offerings consist primarily of power products with a range of power output. Residential power products and industrial & commercial power products are each a
similar class of products based on similar power output and customer usage. The breakout of net sales between residential, industrial/commercial, and other products is as follows:

Year ended December 31,




Residential power products

$

370,740

63.0

%

$

332,618

57.9

%

$

306,741

55.2

%

Industrial & Commercial power products

187,323

31.9

%

207,861

36.2

%

205,759

37.0

%

Other

30,185

5.1

%

33,750

5.9

%

43,205

7.8

%

Total

$

588,248

$

574,229

$

555,705

New Accounting Standards to be Adopted

In December 2007, the FASB originally issued SFAS No. 141(R),

Business
Combinations

(codified in ASC topic 805). This statement requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the
transaction, establishes the acquisition-date fair value as the measurement objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and requires the acquirer to disclose certain
information related to the nature and financial effect of the business combination. SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for business combinations entered into in fiscal years beginning on or after
December 15, 2008. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, however this standard will impact
accounting for any future acquisition transactions.

In
March 2008, the FASB originally issued SFAS No. 161,

Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of SFAS
No. 133

(SFAS No. 161, codified in ASC topic 815). SFAS No. 161 is intended to improve financial standards for derivative instruments and hedging
activities by requiring enhanced disclosures to enable investors to better understand the effect these instruments and activities have on an entity's financial position, financial performance, and
cash flows. Entities are required to provide enhanced disclosures about: how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under
SFAS No. 133 and its related interpretations; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity's financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. The Company
adopted SFAS No. 161 on January 1, 2009, which impacted disclosures relating to the Company's hedging activities.

On
December 30, 2008, the FASB originally issued FSP No. FAS 132(R)-1

Employer's Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit
Assets

(codified in ASC Topic 715-20,

Defined Benefit Plans

(ASC-715-20) related to
employers' disclosures regarding postretirement benefit plan assets. This statement provides additional guidance on employers' disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other
postretirement plan. ASC 715-20 is effective for periods ending after December 15, 2009, on a prospective basis. The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the
Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In
April 2008, the FASB originally issued FSP No. FASB 142-3,

Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets

(FSP No. FAS No. 142-3) (codified in ASC Topic 350,

Intangible—Goodwill and Other).



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

2. Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

FSP
No. FASB 142-3 prospectively amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized
intangible asset. The intent of the position is to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under FSP No. FASB 142-3 and the period of
expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under FSP No. FASB 142-3. The Company adopted this pronouncement on January 1, 2009. The adoption of this
pronouncement did not have a material impact to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

3. Balance Sheet Details

Inventories consist of the following (dollars in thousands):

December 31,



Raw material

$

74,136

$

104,310

Work-in-process


1,217

Finished goods

52,726

23,361

Reserves for excess and obsolescence

(3,937

)

(4,908

)

$

123,700

$

123,980

Property
and equipment consists of the following (dollars in thousands):

December 31,



Land and improvements

$

3,913

$

3,913

Buildings and improvements

48,521

48,148

Machinery and equipment

26,500

24,010

Dies and tools

9,631

9,077

Vehicles



Office equipment

5,712

4,542

Construction-in-progress

—


Gross property and equipment

95,134

90,813

Less accumulated depreciation

(21,760

)

(14,139

)

Property and equipment, net

$

73,374

$

76,674



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

3. Balance Sheet Details (Continued)

Other
accrued liabilities consist of the following (dollars in thousands):

December 31,



Accrued commissions

$

4,211

$

6,444

Accrued interest

17,062

25,228

Accrued warranties—short term

17,029

14,015

Other accrued liabilities

14,024

13,205

$

52,326

$

58,892

4. Product Warranty Obligations

The Company records a liability for product warranty obligations at the time of sale to a customer based upon historical warranty experience. The Company also records a liability for
specific warranty matters when they become known and are reasonably estimatable. The Company's product warranty
obligations are included in other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities in the balance sheets.

Changes
in the product warranty obligations are as follows (dollars in thousands):

For the year ended December 31,




Balance at beginning of year

$

17,539

$

14,807

$

14,788

Payments

(14,208

)

(15,946

)

(13,935

)

Charged to operations

17,398

18,678

13,954

Balance at end of year

$

20,729

$

17,539

$

14,807

The
product warranty obligations are included in the balance sheets as follows (dollars in thousands):

December 31,



Other accrued liabilities

$

17,029

$

14,015

Other long-term liabilities

3,700

3,524

Balance at end of year

$

20,729

$

17,539



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

5. Credit Agreements

Long-term debt consists of the following (dollars in thousands):

December 31,



First lien term loan

$

920,604

$

930,104

Second lien term loan

430,000

430,000

1,350,604

1,360,104

Less treasury debt—first lien

9,898

—

Less treasury debt—second lien

249,167

229,167

Less current portion

39,076

9,500

$

1,052,463

$

1,121,437

Maturities
of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2009, are as follows (dollars in thousands):

Year


$

39,076


9,500


9,500


852,630


180,833

Total

$

1,091,539

See
discussion of debt repayments subsequent to December 31, 2009 in Note 14—Subsequent Events.

At
December 31, 2009, the Company had credit agreements which provided for borrowings under a revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) and two term loans
(collectively, the Credit Agreements), which are described further below. The Credit Agreements of the Company are secured by the associated collateral agreements which pledge virtually all assets of
the Subsidiary.

Borrowings
available under the Revolving Credit Facility are limited to a maximum of $150,000,000. Availability under the Revolving Credit Facility is reduced by the amount of
outstanding undrawn letters of credit. Interest on the Revolving Credit Facility is payable at LIBOR plus 2.5%, or ABR plus 1.5%, as selected by the Company. ABR is the greater of the prime rate or
the federal funds rate plus 0.5%. The spreads on these rates may be reduced as a result of the Company meeting certain financial ratios. As of December 31, 2009, the Company's interest rate on
the Revolving Credit Facility was 2.78%. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had $144,960,000 available under its Revolving Credit Facility and no outstanding borrowings. The Company pays a
Revolving Credit Facility commitment fee of 0.50% on the average available unused commitment. The Revolving Credit Facility matures and is
due on November 10, 2012, unless terminated earlier under certain conditions contained in the Credit Agreements.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

5. Credit Agreements (Continued)

The
Credit Agreements provide the Company the ability to issue letters of credit. Outstanding undrawn letters of credit reduce availability under the Company's Revolving Credit Facility.
The letters of credit accrue interest at a rate of 2.63%, paid quarterly on the undrawn daily aggregate exposure of the preceding quarter. This rate may be reduced as a result of meeting certain
financial ratios. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, letters of credit outstanding were $5,040,000 and $6,653,000, respectively.

The
principal amount of and the outstanding balance under the First Lien Term Loan (the First Lien) was $910,706,000 and $930,104,000 (net of loans held in treasury by the Company) at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Principal payments are due in quarterly installments of $2,375,000. Interest on the First Lien is payable at LIBOR plus 2.5%, or ABR plus 1.5%, as
selected by the Company. At December 31, 2009 and 2008 the Company's interest rate on the First Lien was 2.78% and 6.65%, respectively. The outstanding principal balance is payable on the
earlier of November 10, 2013, or the date of termination of the First Lien, whether by its terms, by prepayment, or by acceleration. In addition to scheduled principal payments, the First Lien
requires an excess cash flow payment each year. The required excess cash flow payment is the amount by which 50% of the excess cash flow (as defined in the credit agreement) generated by the Company
in any given year exceeds the principal payments made during that year. The excess cash flow payment is due 125 days after year-end. For the year ending December 31, 2009 the
required excess cash flow payment is $29,576,000, due in 2010, and this payment has been classified as current in the consolidated balance sheet. For the year ending December 31, 2008 there was
no required excess cash flow payment.

The
principal amount of and the outstanding balance under the Second Lien Term Loan (the Second Lien) was $180,833,000 and $200,833,000 (net of loans held in treasury by the Company) at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Interest on the Second Lien is payable at LIBOR plus 6.0%, or ABR plus 5.0%, as selected by the Company. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the
Company's interest rate on the Second Lien was 6.28% and 10.15%, respectively. The outstanding principal balance is payable on the earlier of May 10, 2014, or the date of termination of the
Second Lien, whether by its terms, by prepayment, or by acceleration.

The
Credit Agreements require the Company, among other things, to meet certain financial and nonfinancial covenants and maintain financial ratios in such amounts and for such periods as
set forth therein. The Company is required to maintain a leverage ratio (net debt divided by EBITDA, as defined within the Credit Agreements) of 6.75 as of December 31, 2009. The leverage ratio
decreases quarterly, and for 2010, the Company will be required to maintain a leverage ratio of 6.75, 6.50, 6.25, and 5.75 for the first, second, third, and fourth quarters, respectively. As of
September 30, 2008, the Company had violated its debt covenant. As permitted by the Credit Agreements, this violation was
remedied by an equity contribution of $15,500,000 from CCMP in the fourth quarter of 2008. The Company was in compliance with all requirements as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.

In
an event where full repayment of the Credit Agreements is required, the First Lien and Revolving Credit Facility take priority over the Second Lien.

The
Credit Agreements restrict the circumstances in which distributions and dividends can be paid by the Subsidiary. Payments can be made to the Company for certain expenses, and
dividends can be used to repurchase equity interests, subject to an annual limitation. Additionally, the Credit



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

5. Credit Agreements (Continued)

Agreements
restrict the aggregate amount of dividends and distributions that can be paid and require the maintenance of certain leverage ratios.

During
2009, CCMP acquired $9,898,000 par value of First Lien term loans and $20,000,000 par value of Second Lien term loans for approximately $6,459,000 and $8,296,000 respectively.
CCMP exchanged this debt for additional shares of Series A Preferred stock issued by the Company. The Company subsequently contributed all but $2,000,000 of the Second Lien term loan debt to
its Subsidiary. The fair value of the shares exchanged was $6,459,000 and $8,296,000 for the First Lien term loan and Second Lien term loan, respectively. These shares have beneficial conversion
features which are contingent upon a future event (see Note 6). The Company recorded this transaction as Series A Preferred stock of $14,754,000 based on the fair value of the debt
contributed by CCMP which approximated the fair value of shares exchanged. The debt was held in treasury at face value. Consequently, the Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of
$14,745,000, which includes the write-off of deferred financing fees and other closing costs, in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009.

During
2008, CCMP acquired $148,917,000 par value of Second Lien term loans for approximately $81,105,000. CCMP exchanged this debt for additional shares of Class B Common stock
and Series A Preferred stock issued by the Company. The Company subsequently contributed this debt to its Subsidiary. The fair value of the shares exchanged was $81,105,000. These shares have
beneficial conversion features which are contingent upon a future event (see Note 6). The Company recorded this transaction as Series A Preferred stock of $62,855,000 and Class B
Common Stock of $18,249,000 based on the fair value of the debt contributed by CCMP which approximated the fair value of shares exchanged. The debt was held in treasury at face value. Consequently,
the Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of $65,385,000, which includes the write-off of deferred financing fees and other closing costs, in the consolidated statement of
operations for the year ended December 31, 2008.

During
2007, CCMP acquired $80,250,000 par value of Second Lien term loans for approximately $59,952,000. CCMP exchanged this debt for additional shares of Class B Common stock
issued by the
Company. The Company subsequently contributed this debt to its Subsidiary. The fair value of the shares exchanged was $59,952,000. These shares have beneficial conversion features which are contingent
upon a future event (see Note 6). The Company recorded this transaction as additional Class B Common stock of $59,952,000 based on the fair value of the debt contributed by CCMP which
approximated the fair value of shares exchanged. The debt was held in treasury at face value. Consequently, the Company recorded a gain on extinguishment of debt of $18,759,000, which includes the
write-off of deferred financing fees and other closing costs, in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007.

In
previous periods, the Company entered into various interest rate swap agreements (the Swaps) with certain banks. The Swaps, which were effective January 2, 2007,
October 3, 2007, and January 3, 2008, have notional amounts totaling $825,000,000, $100,000,000, and $275,000,000, respectively. The total notional amount of $1,200,000,000 declined to
$1,100,000,000 at October 3, 2008, further declined to $675,000,000 at January 3, 2009, and terminated January 4, 2010. The Company swapped floating three-month LIBOR interest
rates for fixed rates with an aggregate weighted-average interest rate of 5.041% and 4.775% as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

5. Credit Agreements (Continued)

Effective January 3, 2009, the Company, within the terms of the Credit Agreements, changed the interest rate election from three-month LIBOR to one-month LIBOR. The
Company concluded that as of January 3, 2009, the Swaps no longer met hedge effectiveness tests and were therefore no longer highly effective as a hedge against the impact on interest payments
of changes in the LIBOR interest rate. The effective portion of the Swaps prior to the change remained in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and was amortized as interest expense over the
period of the originally designated hedged transactions through January 3, 2010. Changes in the fair value of the Swaps were immediately recognized in the consolidated statements of operations
as interest expense. The Company determined its Swaps met hedge effectiveness tests and were deemed highly effective for hedge accounting under ASC 815 as of December 31, 2008. Accordingly, at
December 31, 2008 the change in fair value was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) net of tax for the effective portion of the hedges.

The
fair value of the interest rate swap agreements, including the impact of credit risk, at December 31, 2009, was $0. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of the interest
rate swap agreements, including the impact of credit risk, was a liability of $24,222,000.

6. Redeemable Stock and Stockholders' Equity (Deficit)

Certain of the current equity investors (affiliates of CCMP Capital Advisors, LLC and related entities, affiliates of Unitas Capital Ltd., certain members of management of
the Subsidiary and board of directors of the Company) have acquired a combination of Class A and Class B Common stock and Series A Preferred stock of the Company. See discussion
of the Corporate Reorganization subsequent to December 31, 2009 in Note 14—Subsequent Events. General terms of these securities are:

Preferred Stock

Series A Convertible Preferred stock:

Each Series A Preferred share is entitled to a priority return preference equal to the
sum of
$10,000 per share base amount plus an amount sufficient to generate a 14% annual return on that base amount compounded quarterly from the date of issuance until the accreted priority return preference
is paid in full. Each Series A Preferred share also participates in any equity appreciation beyond the Series A Preferred priority return (the Series A Equity Participation).

Voting:

Series A Preferred shares do not have voting rights, subject to certain limited approval rights.

Distributions:

Dividends and other distributions to stockholders in respect of shares, whether as part of an ordinary distribution of
earnings, as a
leveraged recapitalization or in the event of an ultimate liquidation and distribution of available corporate assets are to be paid to Series A Preferred stockholders as follows:
Series A Preferred shares are entitled to receive an amount equal to the Series A Preferred base amount of $10,000 per share plus an amount sufficient to generate a 14% annual return on
that base amount, compounded quarterly from the date in which the Series A Preferred shares were originally issued. Series A Preferred shares then receive an equity participation on all
remaining proceeds after payment of this priority return to all Series A Preferred stockholders equal to 24.3% of remaining proceeds (Series A Equity Participation). No distribution
shall be made to any holder of common stock until the Series A Preferred stockholders have received all distributions to



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

6. Redeemable Stock and Stockholders' Equity (Deficit) (Continued)

which
they are entitled as previously described. After such distributions are made to the Series A Preferred stockholders, the holders of common stock shall be entitled to receive any remaining
payments or distributions in accordance with their respective priorities.

Liquidations:

Distributions in connection with any liquidation or change of control transaction would be made in accordance with the
distributions
described above. No distribution shall be made to any holder of common stock until the Series A Preferred stockholders have received all distributions to which they are entitled as described
above. After such distributions are made to the Series A Preferred
stockholders, the holders of common stock shall be entitled to receive any remaining payments or distributions in accordance with their respective priorities.

Conversion:

Series A Preferred shares automatically convert into Class A common shares immediately prior to an initial public
offering
(IPO). In the case of any such conversion, any unpaid Series A preferred return (base $10,000 per share plus 14% accretion) will be converted into additional Class A common shares valued
at the IPO price net of underwriter's discount. That is, each Series A Preferred share would convert into a number of Class A common shares equal to (i) a fraction, the numerator
of which is the unpaid priority return on such Series A Preferred share and the denominator of which is the value of a Class A common share at the time of conversion plus (ii) the
number of Class A common shares required to be issued to satisfy the Series A Equity Participation. The number of shares of Class A common stock which will be issued upon
conversion of the Series A Preferred is dependent upon the initial public offering price of the Class A common stock on the date of conversion as well as the unpaid priority return of
the Series A Preferred stock.

The
Series A Preferred are redeemable in a deemed liquidation in the event of a change of control. The redemption features are considered to be outside the control of the Company
and therefore, all shares of Series A Preferred stock are recorded outside of permanent equity in accordance with guidance originally issued under EITF Topic D-98,

Classification and Measurement of Redeemable
Securities

(codified under Accounting Standards Codification 480,

Distinguishing
Liabilities from Equity)

. No adjustment to the carrying value of the Series A Preferred stock securities has been recorded, and the priority returns have not been
accreted as a change of control was not probable.

Common Stock

Class B Convertible common stock:

Class B shares participate in the equity appreciation after the Series A Preferred
priority
return is satisfied. Each Class B share is entitled to a priority return preference equal to the sum of $10,000 per share base amount plus an amount sufficient to generate a 10% annual return
on that base amount compounded quarterly from the date of issue until the Class B priority return preference is paid in full. Each Class B share also participates in any equity
appreciation beyond the Class B priority return.

Voting:

Each Class B share is entitled to one vote per share on all matters on which stockholders vote.

Class A common stock:

Class A shares participate in the equity appreciation after the Class B priority return is
satisfied.

Class A
shares do not have voting rights, priority preference or any accretion rights.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

6. Redeemable Stock and Stockholders' Equity (Deficit) (Continued)

Distributions:

After payment of the priority return to Series A Preferred shareholders previously described above under Preferred
Stock,
dividends and other distributions that remain available to stockholders in respect of shares, whether as part of an ordinary distribution of earnings, as a leveraged recapitalization or in the event
of an ultimate liquidation and distribution of available corporate assets, are to be paid to the common stockholders as follows: Class B shares are entitled to receive an amount equal to the
Class B base amount of $10,000 per share plus an amount sufficient to generate a 10% annual return on that base amount, compounded quarterly from the date in which the Class B shares
were originally issued. After payment of this priority return to Class B holders, the holders of Class A shares and Class B shares participate together equally and ratably in any
and all distributions by the Company.

Liquidations:

Distributions made in connection with any liquidation or change of control transaction would be made in accordance with
the
distributions previously described above in the preceding paragraph. In addition, any remaining assets after the Class B preferential distribution will be allocated to the Class A and
Class B shares as follows: the Class B shares will receive a percentage of the remaining assets equal to the sum of (i) 88% plus (ii) the product of (A) 12%
multiplied by (B) one minus a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of issued and outstanding vested shares of Class A shares and the denominator is 9,350.0098. The
remainder will be allocated to the Class A shares.

Conversion:

Class B shares automatically convert into Class A shares immediately prior to an IPO. In the case of any such
conversion
any unpaid Class B Common priority return (base $10,000 per share plus 10% accretion) will be "paid" in additional Class A common shares valued at the IPO price net of underwriter's
discount. That is, each Class B share would convert into a number of Class A shares required to be issued to satisfy the Class B Common priority return. Each Class B share
would convert
into a number of Class A shares equal to (i) one plus (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the unpaid priority return on such Class B share and the denominator of
which is the value of a Class A share at the time of conversion, in all cases subject to the priority rights and preferences of the Series A Preferred Shares. The number of shares of
Class A common stock which will be issued upon conversion of the Class B common stock is dependent upon the initial public offering price of the Class A common stock on the date
of conversion as well as the unpaid priority return of the Class B common stock.

As
the Class B common are redeemable in a deemed liquidation in the event of a change of control. The redemption features are considered to be outside the control of the Company
and therefore, all shares of Class B common stock are recorded outside of permanent equity in accordance with guidance originally issued under EITF Topic D-98,

Classification and Measurement of Redeemable
Securities

(codified under Accounting Standards Codification 480,

Distinguishing
Liabilities from Equity).

At December 31, 2009, no adjustment to the carrying value of Class B Common stock securities had been recorded, and the priority returns
had not been accreted as a change of control was not probable.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

6. Redeemable Stock and Stockholders' Equity (Deficit) (Continued)

Accretion:

Cumulative accretion on Series A preferred stock and Class B common stock at December 31, 2009, was as
follows:

Series A

Preferred

Class B

Common

Carrying value

$

113,109

$

765,096

Cumulative accretion

14,936

273,936

$

128,045

$

1,039,032

The
amounts above do not include the additional base amount of $25,790,000 on Class B common stock or the impact of Series A Equity Participation on Series A
Preferred stock, both of which would be recognized as a beneficial conversion upon an initial public offering.

Management Equity Incentive Plan:

On November 10, 2006, the Company adopted the 2006 Management Equity Incentive Plan (2006 Equity
Incentive
Plan). The 2006 Equity Incentive Plan provides for awards with respect to a maximum of 9,350.0098 Class A Common shares and 5,000 Class B Common shares, subject to certain adjustments.
On November 10, 2006, and from time to time thereafter, certain members of management purchased restricted shares of Class A Common stock under the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan for $341
per share and pursuant to restricted stock agreements. One half of the restricted shares vest over time (Time Vesting Shares), with 25% vesting on November 10, 2007 and on the next three
anniversaries thereafter, so long as the participant is still employed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries on the applicable vesting date. Upon the occurrence of a change of control of the
Company, any unvested Time Vesting Shares immediately vest in full, so long as the participant is still employed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries. The other half of the restricted shares
immediately vest (performance-based vesting) in full, provided the participant is still then employed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries, upon the occurrence of either: (i) a change of
control of the Company that provides CCMP with a certain rate of return with respect to net proceeds received by CCMP from their investment in the Company; or (ii) from and after the date of an
IPO, the achievement with respect to shares of the Class A Common stock of an average closing trading price exceeding, in any 60 consecutive trading day period starting prior to the later of
(a) the fifth year anniversary of the date of grant of the restricted shares, and (b) one year after the IPO, a certain threshold with respect to net proceeds received by CCMP from their
investment in the Company. As a condition to the purchase of restricted shares, members of management executed confidentiality, non-competition and intellectual property agreements.

The
fair value of the Class A common stock on the date of issuance was estimated to be $390 per share. The Company has recorded $38,000, $40,000, and $53,000 of stock-based
compensation expense related to the Time Vesting Shares in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, related to amortization of the excess of fair value over purchase price of these restricted shares. This
excess is being amortized over the vesting provisions of the restricted shares.

Issuance and Repurchases of Securities

Class A Common Stock:

In 2007, 623.3301 restricted shares of Class A nonvoting common stock, at a price of $341.36 per share,
were
issued to new members of management. In 2008 and 2007,



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

6. Redeemable Stock and Stockholders' Equity (Deficit) (Continued)

555.1566
and 2,649.1694 restricted shares of Class A common stock, respectively, were repurchased by the Company, at a price of $341 per share, from members of management who terminated their
employment with the Subsidiary.

Class B Common Stock:

In February 2007, 145 shares of the Class B Common stock were issued to new members appointed to the
Company's
board of directors, at a price of $10,000 per share. In 2008 and 2007, the Company issued 2,400 and 8,025 shares of Class B Common stock, respectively, to CCMP in exchange for certain term
loans under the second lien credit facility that CCMP had purchased. The exchange ratio in connection with the exchange was one share of Class B Common stock per $10,000 of the aggregate
outstanding principal amount of the loans that were so exchanged. Such purchased term loans had an aggregate outstanding principal amount equal to $104,250,000. In accordance with the preemptive
rights provisions of the Shareholders' Agreement, CCMP subsequently transferred shares of Class B Common stock it had purchased to various investment funds affiliated with CCMP, certain members
of management and board members. The shares exchanged were valued at the discounted amount paid for the debt, which approximated the Class B Common stock's fair value at that date. The equity
consideration was less than the outstanding principal amount, therefore a gain on debt extinguishment was recorded. A summary of how the 10,425 Class B Common shares issued in exchange for
repurchased debt is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements is as follows (dollars in thousands):

Number

of Shares

Face

Value

of Debt

Consideration

Paid

Fair Value

of Shares

Exchanged

Contingent

Beneficial

Conversation

Gain on

Extinguishment

of debt

Year ending December 31, 2008

2,400

24,000

18,249

18,249

5,492

5,363

Year ending December 31, 2007

8,025

80,250

59,952

59,952

20,298

18,759

Total

10,425

$

104,250

$

78,201

$

78,201

$

25,790

$

24,122

The
Company determined that the conversion feature in the Class B Common stock is in-the-money at the date of issuance and therefore represents a
beneficial conversion feature. Since the Class B Common stock is convertible upon an initial public offering, it is contingent upon a future event and has not been recorded in the consolidated
financial statements. The beneficial conversion feature, which has been valued at $25,790,000 at its commitment date, was recorded at the completion of the IPO on February 10, 2010 as a return
to Class B Common stockholders analogous to a dividend. If no retained earnings are available to pay this dividend at resolution of the contingency, the dividend will be charged against
additional paid in capital resulting in no net impact. Upon the completion of the IPO on February 10, 2010, the Company recorded the beneficial conversion of $25,790,000 as a reduction and
offsetting increase to additional paid in capital as no retained earnings were available. There was no net impact on additional paid-in-capital.

For
the year ended December 31, 2007, following the exchange of purchased debt for Class B Common stock, certain members of management and the board of directors were
provided the opportunity to purchase Class B common stock at fair value. Because the Class B common stock includes a contingent beneficial conversion feature, the Company recorded
stock-based compensation



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

6. Redeemable Stock and Stockholders' Equity (Deficit) (Continued)

expense
of $304,000, which represents the intrinsic value associated with the contingent beneficial conversion feature.

Series A Preferred Stock:

In November 2008, the Company issued 1,550 shares of the Series A Preferred stock to CCMP for an
aggregate
purchase price of $15,500,000. In September 2009, the Company issued 2,000 shares of the Series A Preferred stock to CCMP and certain members of management and the board of directors, for an
aggregate purchase price of $20,000,000. In December 2008 and in 2009, the Company issued an aggregate of 6,285 and 1,476 shares of Series A Preferred stock, respectively, to CCMP in exchange
for certain term loans under the second lien credit facility that CCMP had purchased. The exchange ratio in connection with the exchange was one share of Series A Preferred stock per $10,000 of
the amount paid by CCMP for the loans that were so exchanged. Such purchased term loans had an aggregate outstanding principal amount equal to $154,815,000. The equity consideration was less than the
outstanding principal amount, therefore a gain on debt extinguishment was recorded. A summary of the exchanges of purchased term loans for Series A Preferred stock by year is as follows
(dollars in thousands):

Number

of Shares

Face Value

of Debt

Consideration

Paid

Gain on

Extinguishment

of debt

Year ending December 31, 2009

1,476

$

29,898

$

14,754

$

14,745

Year ending December 31, 2008

6,285

124,917

62,855

60,022

Total

7,761

$

154,815

$

77,609

$

74,767

The
Company determined that the conversion feature in the Series A Preferred stock had a contingent beneficial conversion feature at the date of issuance. The Series A
Preferred stock was convertible upon an initial public offering and the number of additional Class A Common shares which may be issued was unknown at December 31, 2009. Since it was
contingent upon a future event, it had not been recorded in the consolidated financial statements. The beneficial conversion feature, which is the result of the additional Class A shares issued
to satisfy the Series A Equity Participation, was recorded at the completion of the initial public offering on February 10, 2010, as a return to Series A Preferred
stockholders analogous to a dividend. If no retained earnings are available to pay this dividend at resolution of the contingency, the dividend will be charged against additional paid in capital
resulting in no net impact. Upon the completion of the IPO on February 10, 2010, the Company recorded the beneficial conversion of $114,900,000 as a reduction and offsetting increase to
additional paid in capital as no retained earnings were available. There was no net impact on additional paid-in-capital.

During
2007, the Company entered into subscription notes receivable with certain stockholders related to their purchase of restricted Class A Common stock of $195,000. During
2008, $37,000 of outstanding notes receivable were repaid. During 2009, $129,000 of outstanding notes receivable, including accrued interest, was repaid in exchange for cancelling 389 shares of
Class A Common stock originally issued in exchange for the note receivable. The outstanding subscription notes receivables are included in stockholders' equity in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

7. Earnings Per Share

The Class B Common stock is considered a participating stock security requiring use of the "two-class" method for the computation of basic net income (loss) per share
in accordance with provision of ASC 260-10

Earnings per share

. Losses are not allocated to the Class B Common stock in the
computation of basic earnings per share as the Class B Common stock is not obligated to share in losses.

Basic
earnings per share excludes the effect of common stock equivalents and is computed using the "two-class" computation method, which subtracts earnings attributable to
the Class B preference from total earnings. Any remaining loss is attributed to the Class A shares.

Year ended December 31,




Net income (loss)

$

43,055

$

(555,955

)

$

(9,714

)

Less: accretion of Series A Preferred stock

(14,151

)

(785

)

—

Less: accretion of Class B Common stock

(100,191

)

(90,567

)

(73,676

)

Net loss attributable to Class A Common stock

(71,287

)

(647,307

)

(83,390

)

Income attributable to Class B Common stock

100,191

90,567

73,676

Net (loss) income per common share, basic and diluted:

Class A Common stock—see Notes 1 and 14

$

(41,111

)

$

(357,628

)

$

(34,994

)

Class B Common stock—see Notes 1 and 14

$

4,171

$

3,780

$

3,462

Pro forma net income per common share, basic and diluted (Note 14—unaudited)

$

1.00

Weighted average number of shares outstanding:

Class A Common stock—see Notes 1 and 14

1,734

1,810

2,383

Class B Common stock—see Notes 1 and 14

24,018

23,961

21,282

Pro forma weighted average shares outstanding

43,247,085

The
share and per share data used in basic and diluted earnings per share has been retrospectively restated to reflect a 3.294 for 1 reverse stock split immediately prior to the IPO on
February 10, 2010. See Note 1 and Note 14.

The
Series A Preferred and Class B Common stock were only convertible to Class A Common stock immediately prior to an initial public offering. The impact of the
conversion of Series A Preferred and Class B Common stock are excluded from diluted earnings per share calculations for all years presented, as this contingent event did not occur by the
end of the respective reporting periods. The number of shares of Class A Common stock that were issued upon conversion of the Series A Preferred and Class B Common stock was
dependent upon the initial public offering price of the Class A Common stock on the date of conversion of February 10, 2010 as well as the unpaid priority return. The conversion at the
time of the IPO, as well as the reverse stock split, resulted in 19,511,018 and 26,859,906 shares of
common stock issued for the Series A Preferred stock and Class B Common stock, respectively. These shares are included in the pro forma weighted average shares outstanding.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

8. Income Taxes

The Company's provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of the following (dollars in thousands):

Year ended December 31,




Current:

Federal

$

—

$

—

$

—

State



(571

)



(571

)

Deferred:

Federal

15,221

(195,035

)

(3,860

)

State

(12,378

)

(11,240

)

(322

)

2,843

(206,275

)

(4,182

)

Change in valuation allowance

(2,843

)

206,275

4,182

Provision (benefit) for income taxes

$


$


$

(571

)

The
Company is the taxpaying entity and files a consolidated federal income tax return. Currently, the Company is not under examination by any major taxing jurisdiction to which
the Company is subject; however the Company has been notified of an audit by Michigan Department of Treasury to begin March 2010. The statute of limitation for tax years 2009, 2008, 2007, and 2006 is
open, for federal and state income taxes. Additionally, tax year 2005 remains open for examination by certain state taxing authorities.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

8. Income Taxes (Continued)

Significant
components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (dollars in thousands):

December 31,



Deferred tax assets:

Goodwill and intangible assets

$

214,337

$

228,482

Accrued expenses

11,700

11,426

Deferred revenue



Inventories

1,970

2,146

Pension obligations

3,635

3,572

Unrealized investment loss

—


Operating loss and contribution carryforwards

61,555

49,493

Other



Valuation allowance

(289,529

)

(292,372

)

Total deferred tax assets

4,987

4,416

Deferred tax liabilities:

Depreciation

4,662

4,029

Prepaid expenses



Total deferred tax liabilities

4,987

4,416

Net deferred tax asset

$

—

$

—

The
net current and noncurrent components of deferred taxes included in the consolidated balance sheets are as follows (dollars in thousands):

December 31,



Net current deferred tax assets

$

14,458

$

14,176

Net long-term deferred tax assets

275,071

278,196

Valuation allowance

(289,529

)

(292,372

)

Net deferred tax assets

$

—

$

—

At
December 31, 2009, the Company has federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $161,700,000, which expire between 2026 and 2029, and various state net operating
loss carryforwards, which expire between 2016 and 2029.

As
a result of ownership changes, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended and similar state provisions can limit the annual deductions of net operating loss
and tax credit carry forwards. Such annual limitations could result in the expiration of net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards before utilization. The Company has no such limitation as of
December 31, 2009, and no limitation was triggered by our initial public offering which occurred on February 10, 2010. Future ownership changes may result in such a limitation.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

8. Income Taxes (Continued)

A
reconciliation of the statutory tax rates and the effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are as follows:

Year ended

December 31,




U.S. statutory rate


%


%


%

State taxes



(2

)

Valuation allowance

(38

)

(37

)

(38

)

Effective tax rate


%


%

(5

)%

At
December 31, 2009 and 2008 the Company has no reserves recorded for uncertain tax positions.

9. Benefit Plans

Medical and Dental Plan

The Company has a medical and dental benefit plan covering full-time employees of the Company and their dependents. The
plan is a partially self-funded plan under which participant claims are obligations of the plan. The plan is funded through employer and employee contributions at a level sufficient to pay
for the benefits provided by the plan. The Company's contributions to the plan were $5,900,000, $6,000,000, and $7,200,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.
The plan maintains individual stop loss insurance policies on the medical portion of $200,000 to mitigate losses. Balances for the incurred but not yet reported claims, including reported but unpaid
claims at December 31, 2009, and 2008, were $1,200,000 and $1,000,000, respectively. The Company estimates claims incurred but not yet reported each month based on its historical experience,
and the Company adjusts its accrual to meet the estimated liability.

Savings Plan

The Company maintains a defined-contribution 401(k) savings plan for virtually all employees who meet certain eligibility requirements.
Under the plan, employees may defer receipt of a portion of their eligible compensation.

The
Company amended the 401(k) savings plans effective January 1, 2009, to add Company matching and non-elective contributions. The Company may contribute a matching
contribution of
50% of the first 6% of eligible compensation of employees. No matching contribution shall be made with respect to employee catch-up contributions. The Company may contribute a
non-elective contribution for each plan year after 2008. The contribution will apply to eligible employees employed on December 31, 2008. The rate of the non-elective
contribution is determined based upon years of service as of December 31, 2008, and is fixed. Both Company matching contributions and non-elective contributions are subject to
vesting. Forfeitures may be applied against plan expenses.

The
Company recognized $2,300,000 of expense related to this plan in 2009. The Company made no contributions to this plan in 2008 or 2007, and accordingly, no expense has been recognized
in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

9. Benefit Plans (Continued)

Pension Plans

The Company has noncontributory salaried and hourly pension plans (combined the Pension Plans) covering substantially all of its
employees. The benefits under the salaried plan are based upon years of service and the participants' defined final average monthly compensation. The benefits under the hourly plan are based on a unit
amount at the date of termination multiplied by the participant's years of credited service. The Company's funding policy for the Pension Plans is to contribute amounts at least equal to the minimum
annual amount required by applicable regulations.

The
Company elected to freeze the Pension Plans effective December 31, 2008. This resulted in a cessation of all future benefit accruals for both hourly and salary pension plans.
A curtailment liability gain of $5,809,000 related to the salary plan was recognized as a reduction to the unrecognized net loss, as the curtailment liability gain was less than the unrecognized net
loss prior to the plan amendment and, therefore, did not impact the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2008.

The
Company uses a December 31 measurement date for the Pension Plans. Information related to the Pension Plans is as follows (dollars in thousands):

Year ended December 31,



Accumulated benefit obligation at end of period

$

41,845

$

38,030

Change in projected benefit obligation

Projected benefit obligation at beginning of period

$

38,030

$

38,291

Service cost

—

2,477

Interest cost

2,338

2,452

Net actuarial loss

2,633

1,602

Curtailment gain

—

(5,809

)

Benefits paid

(1,156

)

(983

)

Projected benefit obligation at end of period

$

41,845

$

38,030

Change in plan assets

Fair value of plan assets at beginning of period

$

23,663

$

30,813

Actual return on plan assets

4,132

(8,597

)

Company contributions

1,489

2,430

Benefits paid

(1,156

)

(983

)

Fair value of plan assets at end of period

$

28,128

$

23,663

Funded status: accrued pension liability included in other long-term liabilities

$

(13,717

)

$

(14,367

)

Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income

Net actuarial loss

$

(64

)

$

(7,122

)



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

9. Benefit Plans (Continued)

The
estimated actuarial loss for the Pension Plans that was amortized from OCI into net periodic benefit cost during 2009 is $200,000.

Additional
information related to the Pension Plans is as follows (dollars in thousands):

Year ended December 31,




Components of net periodic pension expense:

Service cost

$

—

$

2,477

$

2,454

Interest cost

2,338

2,452

2,172

Expected return on plan assets

(1,804

)

(2,733

)

(2,661

)

Amortization of net loss


—

—

Net periodic pension expense

$


$

2,196

$

1,965

Weighted-average
assumptions used to determine benefit obligation are as follows:

December 31,



Discount rate

5.76

%

6.28

%

Rate of compensation increase(1)

n/a

n/a

(1)

No
compensation increase was assumed, as the plans were frozen effective December 31, 2008.

Weighted-average
assumptions used to determine net periodic pension expense are as follows:

Year ended

December 31,




Discount rate

6.28

%

6.48

%

5.75

%

Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets

7.66

9.00

9.25

Rate of compensation increase(1)

n/a

4.25

4.25

(1)

No
compensation increase was assumed in 2009, as the plans were frozen effective December 31, 2008.

To
determine the long-term rate of return assumption for plan assets, the Company studies historical markets and preserves the long-term historical relationships
between equities and fixed-income securities consistent with the widely accepted capital market principle that
assets with higher volatility generate a greater return over the long run. The Company evaluates current market factors such as inflation and interest rates before it determines long-term
capital market assumptions and reviews peer data and historical returns to check for reasonableness and appropriateness.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

9. Benefit Plans (Continued)

The
Pension Plan's weighted-average asset allocation at December 31, 2009 and 2008, by asset category, is as follows (dollars in thousands):

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Asset Category

Target

Dollars

%

Dollars

%

Fixed Income


%

9,246


%

8,292


%

Domestic equity


%

13,262


%

10,722


%

International equity


%

4,504


%



%

Real estate


%

1,116


%

2,170


%

Cash/other


%

—


%

1,526


%

Total


%

$

28,128


%

$

23,663


%

The
fair values of the Pension Plan's assets at December 31, 2009 are as follows:

Total

Quoted prices in

active markets for

identical asset

(level 1)

Significant

observable

inputs

(level 2)

Significant

unobservable

inputs

(level 3)

Mutual fund

$

23,062

$

23,062

$

—

$

—

Collective trust

3,950

—

3,950

—

Pooled separate account

1,116

—

—

1,116

Total

$

28,128

$

23,062

$

3,950

$

1,116

A
reconciliation of beginning and ending balances for Level 3 assets for the year ended December 31, 2009 is as follows (dollars in thousands):

Separate Account

(Level 3)

Balance as of December 31, 2008

$

1,631

Realized (losses) gains

(515

)

Balance as of December 31, 2009

$

1,116

Mutual
Funds—This category includes investments in mutual funds that encompass both equity and fixed income securities that are designed to provide a diverse portfolio. The
plan's mutual funds are designed to track exchange indices, and invest in diverse industries. Some mutual funds are classified as regulated investment companies. Investment managers have the ability
to shift investments from value to growth strategies, from small to large capitalization funds, and from U.S. to international investments. These investments are valued at the closing price reported
on the active market on which the individual securities are traded. These investments are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

9. Benefit Plans (Continued)

Collective Trusts—This category includes public investment vehicles valued using the Net Asset Value (NAV) provided by the administrator of the trust. The NAV is based on the
value of the underlying assets owned by the trust, minus its liabilities, and then divided by the number of shares outstanding. The NAV of the trust is classified within Level 2 of the fair
value hierarchy.

Pooled
Separate Account—This category invests mainly in commercial real estate and includes mortgage loans which are backed by the associated properties. These underlying
real estate investments have unobservable level 3 pricing inputs.

The
Company's target allocation for equity securities and real estate is generally between 55%—65%, with the remainder allocated primarily to bonds. The Company regularly
reviews its actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to the targeted allocation when considered appropriate.

The
Company expects to make no contributions to the Pension Plans in 2010.

The
following benefit payments are expected to be paid from the Pension Plans (dollars in thousands):

Year


$

1,362


1,432


1,538


1,675


1,822

Years 2015 - 2019

11,635

10. Commitments and Contingencies

The Company leases certain computer equipment, automobiles, and warehouse space under operating leases with initial lease terms ranging up to three years.

The
approximate aggregate minimum rental commitments at December 31, 2009, are as follows (dollars in thousands):

Amount

Year


$









—

Total

$




Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

10. Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)

Total
rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, which includes short-term data processing equipment rentals, was approximately $347,000,
$415,000, and $633,000, respectively.

The
Company had an arrangement with a finance company to provide floor plan financing for selected dealers. The Company received payment from the finance company within a few days of
shipment of
product to the dealer. The Company participated in the cost of dealer financing up to certain limits. The Company has agreed to repurchase products repossessed by the finance company. The Company's
financial exposure when repurchasing product is limited to the difference between the outstanding balance due and the amount received on the resale of the repossessed product. In the event of default,
the Company is liable for up to 50% of the financed balance. Effective February 27, 2009, the arrangement between the Company and the finance company was terminated. The amount financed by
dealers which remained outstanding under this arrangement at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was approximately $427,000 and $7,547,000, respectively. Minimal losses have been incurred under this
agreement, and a minimal reserve for future losses has been recorded.

Effective
May 29, 2009, the Company entered into an arrangement with a different finance company. This arrangement is similar to the previous arrangement, however, the Company
does not indemnify the finance company for any credit losses they incur. The amount financed by dealers which remained outstanding under this new arrangement at December 31, 2009 was
approximately $6,966,000.

In
the normal course of business, the Company is named as a defendant in various lawsuits in which claims are asserted against the Company. In the opinion of management, the liabilities,
if any, which may result from such lawsuits are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company.

11. Related-Party Transactions

The Company has entered into an agreement to pay CCMP and Unitas Capital and related entities an annual advisory fee of $500,000. The Company expensed $500,000 in advisory fees for 2009,
2008, and 2007. This agreement was terminated effective with the IPO on February 10, 2010.

The
Company paid CCMP a finders fee of $30,000,000 related to the November 10, 2006, transaction in which the Company acquired all of the capital stock of Generac Power Systems.
This fee was a direct transaction cost and, therefore, was included as part of the purchase price. $15,000,000 was paid to CCMP in 2006, and the remaining $15,000,000 was paid to CCMP in 2007.



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

12. Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

Unaudited quarterly financial information for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, (in thousands, except per share data):

Quarters Ended 2009

Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4

Net sales

$

140,446

$

149,577

$

144,261

$

153,964

Gross profit

47,527

60,188

64,491

63,644

Operating income

13,816

24,786

30,588

29,322

Net income

5,794

7,032

18,281

11,948

Less: accretion of Series A preferred stock

(2,792

)

(3,320

)

(3,709

)

(4,330

)

Less: accretion of Class B common stock

(24,128

)

(24,731

)

(25,349

)

(25,983

)

Net loss attributable to Class A common stock

(21,126

)

(21,019

)

(10,777

)

(18,365

)

Income attributable to Class B common stock

24,128

24,731

25,349

25,983

Net (loss) income per common share, basic and diluted:

Class A common stock

$

(12,172

)

$

(12,111

)

$

(6,209

)

$

(10,613

)

Class B common stock

$

1,005

$

1,030

$

1,055

$

1,082

Quarters Ended 2008

Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4

Net sales

$

112,367

$

124,183

$

165,054

$

172,625

Gross profit

42,488

45,555

55,825

58,162

Operating income

11,327

14,154

22,531

(560,313

)

Net loss

(11,417

)

(15,628

)

(13,144

)

(515,766

)

Less: accretion of Series A preferred stock

—

—

—

(785

)

Less: accretion of Class B common stock

(21,681

)

(22,381

)

(22,965

)

(23,539

)

Net loss attributable to Class A common stock

(33,098

)

(38,009

)

(36,109

)

(540,090

)

Income attributable to Class B common stock

21,681

22,381

22,965

23,539

Net (loss) income per common share, basic and diluted:

Class A common stock

$

(17,397

)

$

(20,701

)

$

(20,525

)

$

(309,757

)

Class B common stock

$


$


$


$




Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

13. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in thousands):

Balance at

Beginning of

Period

Additions

Charged to

Earnings

Charges to

Reserve, Net(1)

Balance at

End of

Year

Year ended December 31, 2009

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

1,020

$


$

(231

)

$

1,016

Allowance for doubtful notes


—

—


Reserves for inventory

4,908


(1,519

)

3,937

Valuation of deferred tax assets

292,372

(2,843

)

—

289,529

Year ended December 31, 2008

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$


$


$

(182

)

$

1,020

Allowance for doubtful notes



—


Reserves for inventory

3,656

1,689

(437

)

4,908

Valuation of deferred tax assets

86,097

206,275

—

292,372

Year ended December 31, 2007

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$


$


$

(26

)

$


Allowance for doubtful notes

—


—


Reserves for inventory

3,117

1,145

(606

)

3,656

Valuation of deferred tax assets

81,915

4,182

—

86,097

(1)

Deductions
from the allowance for doubtful accounts equal accounts receivable written off, less recoveries, against the allowance. Deductions from the
reserves for inventory excess and obsolete items equal inventory written off against the reserve as items were disposed of. Deductions to the valuation of deferred tax assets relate to the reversals
due to changes in management's judgments regarding the future realization of the underlying deferred tax assets.

14. Subsequent Events

The Company evaluated its financial statements for subsequent events through the date the financial statements were available to be issued. The Company is not aware of any subsequent
events which require recognition or disclosure in the financial statements, except as disclosed below.

The
Company completed an initial public offering on February 17, 2010. Our capitalization prior to the initial public offering consisted of Series A Preferred Stock,
Class B Common Stock and Class A Common Stock. In connection with the initial public offering, we effected a corporate reorganization in which, after giving effect to a 3.294 for one
reverse Class A Common Stock split, our Class B Common
Stock and Series A Preferred Stock was converted into Class A Common Stock and our Class A Common Stock was then reclassified as common stock. Following the initial public
offering, we have only one class of common stock outstanding.

On
February 17, 2010, the Company completed the initial public offering (IPO) of 18,750,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $13.00 per share. In addition, on
March 18, 2010, the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option and purchased an additional 1,950,500 shares of common stock from the Company. We received approximately
$247,800,000 in net proceeds from the



Generac Holdings Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

14. Subsequent Events (Continued)

IPO,
including the overallotment option, after deducting the underwriting discount and total expenses related to the offering. $221,600,000 of proceeds from the initial closing were used entirely to
pay down our second lien credit facility in full and to repay a portion of our first lien credit facility. Additionally, in March 2010, the Company used $138.5 million of cash and cash
equivalents on hand to further pay down our first lien term loan principal. Repayments of our first and second lien credit facilities subsequent to December 31, 2009 totaled $360,100,000.

As
a result of the Corporate Reorganization, IPO, over-allotment exercise and subsequent excess cash debt pay down, as of March 19, 2010, the Company had $731,400,000
of outstanding debt under its first lien term loan, the second lien term loan was terminated, and 67,529,290 total common shares are outstanding.

The
Company adopted an equity incentive plan on February 10, 2010 in connection with the IPO. A registration statement on Form S-8 was filed registering the
6,637,835 shares of common stock issuable under the equity incentive plan. At the time of the IPO, 4,341,504 stock options and 456,249 shares of restricted stock and other stock awards were granted to
employees and Board members of the Company pursuant to the equity incentive plan. The stock options have an exercise price equal to the IPO price and vest in equal installments over five years,
subject to the grantee's continued employment or service. The restricted stock awards will vest in full on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the grantee's continued employment.

The
Company's interest rate swap agreements outstanding as of December 31, 2009 terminated on January 4, 2010. The Company entered into a new interest rate swap agreement
on January 21, 2010. The effective date of the swap is July 1, 2010 with a notional amount of $200,000,000, a fixed LIBOR rate of 1.73% and an expiration date of July 1, 2012. We
expect to maintain the swap as highly effective in accordance with ASC 815 (formerly SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities) and, therefore, any changes in
the fair value of the swap would be recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

On
February 18, 2010, we entered into a ten-month foreign currency average rate option transaction for Euros with a total notional amount of $2,500,000. The primary
objective is to mitigate the impact of potential price fluctuations of the Euro on our financial results.



Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

There were no changes in, or disagreements with, accountants reportable herein.

Item 9A(T).    Controls and Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial
officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined under Rule 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.

Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

This annual report does not include a report of management's assessment regarding internal controls over financial reporting or an
attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by the SEC.

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There have been no changes during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 in our internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.    Other Information

None



PART III

Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The information required by Item 10 not already provided herein under "Item 1—Business—Executive
officers," will be included in our 2010 Proxy Statement, and is incorporated by reference herein.

Item 11.    Executive Compensation

The information required by this item will be included in our 2010 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this item will be included in our 2010 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

The information required by this item will be included in our 2010 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The information required by this item will be included in our 2010 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

Item 15.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules

(a)(1) Financial Statements

Included in Part II of this report:

Page

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008


Consolidated statements of operations for years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007


Consolidated statements of redeemable stock and stockholders' equity (deficit) for years ended December 31, 2009,
2008 and 2007


Consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007


Notes to consolidated financial statements


(a)(2) Schedules

None



(a)(3) Exhibits

Exhibits Number

Description

2.1

Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Generac Power Systems, Inc., the representative named therein, GPS CCMP Acquisition Corp., and GPS CCMP Merger Corp., dated as of September 13, 2006
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 11, 2010).

2.2

Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Generac Power Systems, Inc., the representative named therein, GPS CCMP Acquisition Corp., and GPS CCMP Merger Corp (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 2.1 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 11, 2010).

3.1

*

Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Generac Holdings Inc.

3.2

*

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Generac Holdings Inc.

4.1

Form of Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 25, 2010).

4.2

Shareholders Agreement, dated as of November 10, 2006, by and among Generac Holdings Inc., certain stockholders of Generac Holdings Inc., including CCMP Capital Investors II, L.P., various of it
affiliated funds, various funds affiliated with Unitas Capital Ltd. and the Management Shareholders (as defined in Shareholders Agreement) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with
the SEC on October 20, 2009).

10.1

Credit Agreement, dated as of November 10, 2006, by and among Generac, GPS CCMP Merger Corp., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as administrative agent, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. as syndication agent,
Barclays Bank PLC, as documentation agent, and Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Registration
Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on December 17, 2009).

10.2

First Lien Guarantee and Collateral Agreement, dated November 10, 2006, among Generac Acquisition Corp., GPS CCMP Merger Corp., certain Subsidiaries of GPS CCMP Merger Corp. and Goldman Sachs Credit
Partners L.P., as Administrative Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5.1 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on December 17, 2009).

10.3

Advisory Services and Monitoring Agreement, dated November 10, 2006 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on November 24,
2009).

10.4

+

2006 Management Equity Incentive Plan, effective as of November 10, 2006 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on November 24,
2009).

10.5

+

2009 Executive Management Incentive Compensation Program (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.46 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on December 17, 2009).

10.6

+

Generac Holdings Inc. 2010 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 25, 2010).



Exhibits Number

Description

10.7

+

Generac Holdings Inc. Annual Performance Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.63 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 25, 2010).

10.8

+

Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated January 14, 2010, between Generac and Aaron Jagdfeld (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.65 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC
on January 25, 2010).

10.9

+

Employment Agreement, dated as of November 10, 2006, between Generac and Dawn Tabat (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 25,
 2010).

10.10

+

Amendment to Employment Agreement, dated January 14, 2010, between Generac and Dawn Tabat (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.66 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on
October 20, 2009).

10.11

+

Employment Letter to Clement Feng, dated December 29, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.47 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 11, 2010).

10.12

+

Employment Letter with Terrence Dolan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.62 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 25, 2010).

10.13

+

Severance Agreement with Edward LeBlanc, dated September 22, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.49 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 11,
2010).

10.14

+

Form of Change in Control Severance Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.64 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 25, 2010).

10.15

Form of Confidentiality, Non-Competition and Intellectual Property Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.40 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on November 24,
2009).

10.16

Employee Nondisclosure and Noncompete Agreement, by and between Generac Power Systems, Inc. and Clement Feng, dated as of September 5, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.41 of the Registration
Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on November 24, 2009).

10.17

Promissory Note dated December 27, 2007 between Generac Power Systems, Inc. and Clement Feng (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.43 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on
December 17, 2009).

10.18

Promissory Note Repayment Letter to Clement Feng, dated December 28, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.48 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 11,
2010).

10.19

+

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.44 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 25, 2010).

10.20

+

Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.45 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 25, 2010).



Exhibits Number

Description

10.21

Form of Generac Holdings Inc. Director Indemnification Agreement for Stephen Murray, Timothy Walsh and Stephen V. McKenna (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.50 of the Registration Statement on
Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 11, 2010).

10.22

Form of Generac Holdings Inc. Director Indemnification Agreement for Barry Goldstein, John D. Bowlin and Edward A. LeBlanc (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.51 of the Registration Statement on
Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 11, 2010).

10.23

Form of Generac Holdings Inc. Officer Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.52 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 11,
2010).

10.24

Form of Generac Power Systems, Inc. Director Indemnification Agreement for Stephen Murray, Timothy Walsh and Stephen V. McKenna (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.53 of the Registration Statement on
Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 25, 2010).

10.25

Form of Generac Power Systems, Inc. Indemnification Agreement for Barry Goldstein, John D. Bowlin, Edward A. LeBlanc, Aaron Jagdfeld, York A. Ragen, Dawn Tabat, Clement Feng, Allen Gillette, Roger Schaus, Jr.
and Roger Pascavis (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.54 of the Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the SEC on January 25, 2010).

21.1

*

List of Subsidiaries of Generac Holdings Inc.

23.1

*

Consent of Ernst & Young, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, relating to Generac Holdings Inc.

31.1

*

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14 Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), pursuant to section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2

*

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14 Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), pursuant to section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1

**

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2

**

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted by Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

*

Filed
herewith.

**

Furnished
herewith.

+

Indicates
management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

GENERAC HOLDINGS INC.

By:

/s/ AARON JAGDFELD

Aaron Jagdfeld

Chief Executive Officer

Dated:
March 30, 2010

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons and on behalf of the Registrant in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ AARON JAGDFELD

Aaron Jagdfeld

Chief Executive Officer and Director

(Principal Executive Officer)

March 30, 2010

/s/ YORK A. RAGEN

York A. Ragen

Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

March 30, 2010

/s/ JOHN D. BOWLIN

John D. Bowlin

Director

March 30, 2010

/s/ BARRY J. GOLDSTEIN

Barry J. Goldstein

Director

March 30, 2010

/s/ EDWARD A. LEBLANC

Edward A. LeBlanc

Director

March 30, 2010

/s/ STEPHEN V. MCKENNA

Stephen V. McKenna

Director

March 30, 2010

/s/ STEPHEN MURRAY

Stephen Murray

Director

March 30, 2010

/s/ TIMOTHY WALSH

Timothy Walsh

Director

March 30, 2010

97