
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                               ----------------
 
  (MARK                            FORM 10-K
  ONE)
 
   [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
                      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
 
                   For the fiscal year ended October 31, 1995
                                       OR
   [_]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
                     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
 
                For the transition period from         to
 
                        Commission File Number: 1-4423
 
             Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter:
 
                            HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
 

 
                    ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES:
               3000 Hanover Street, Palo Alto, California 94304
 
              REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE:
                                (415) 857-1501
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
 
                                     None
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X] No [_]
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [_]
 
  The aggregate market value of the registrant's Common Stock held by non-
affiliates as of December 29, 1995 was $33,803,783,360.
 
  Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
classes of Common Stock as of December 29, 1995: 512,675,574 shares of $1 par
value Common Stock.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 

 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
 
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
 
  Hewlett-Packard Company was incorporated in 1947 under the laws of the State
of California as the successor to a partnership founded in 1939 by William R.
Hewlett and David Packard.
 
  On a worldwide basis, Hewlett-Packard Company, together with its
consolidated subsidiaries (the "Company"), designs, manufactures and services
equipment and systems for measurement, computation and communications. The
Company offers a wide variety of systems and standalone products, including
computer systems, personal computers ("PCs"), printers and other peripheral
products, electronic test equipment and systems, medical electronic equipment,
calculators and other personal information products, solid state components
and instrumentation for chemical analysis. Services such as systems
integration, selective-outsourcing management, consulting, education, product
financing and rentals, as well as customer support and maintenance, are also
an integral part of the Company's offerings. These products and services are
used in industry, business, engineering, science, medicine and education. A
summary of the Company's net revenue as contributed by its major groupings of
similar products and services is found on page 46 of the Company's 1995 Annual
Report to Shareholders, which page (excluding order data) is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
  The Company's computers, computer systems, personal information products,
personal peripheral products and other peripherals are used in a variety of
applications, including scientific and engineering computation and analysis,
instrument control and business information management. The Company's core
computing products and technologies include its PA-RISC architecture for
systems and workstations, and software infrastructure for open systems. The
Company's general-purpose computers and computer systems include scalable
families of systems, servers and PCs for use in homes, small workgroups,
larger departments and entire enterprises. Key products include the HP 9000
series, which runs HP-UX, the Company's implementation of the UNIX(R)(/1/)
operating system, and comprises both workstations with powerful computational
and graphics capabilities as well as multiuser computers for both technical
and commercial applications; and the HP Vectra series of IBM-compatible PCs
for use in business, engineering, manufacturing and chemical analysis. The
Company offers software programming services, network services, distributed
system services and data management services. Customers of the Company's
computers, computer systems and software infrastructure products include
original equipment manufacturers, dealers, value-added resellers and
retailers, as well as end users for a variety of applications.
 
  In the field of computing during fiscal 1995, the Company introduced the HP
9000 K-class midrange server, which incorporates the HP-UX 10.0 operating
system, also introduced this year. In addition, the Company brought out the HP
9000 J-class workstations, which feature VISUALIZE graphics and are intended
for use in mechanical- and electronic-design automation. Other new products
included the HP 9000 Model 715/100 XC midrange workstation and the HP 9000
Model 712/100 at the low end. The Company also announced its next-generation
PA-RISC microprocessor, the PA-8000. This year the Company introduced its
first line of PCs specifically intended for home users, the HP Pavilion PC.
The Company continued to enhance its HP Vectra PC series, the HP NetServer
family of PC servers and the HP OmniBook line of mobile PCs.
 
  In the information-storage business, the Company introduced the HP SureStore
CD-Writer 4020i, a compact disc ("CD") player/recorder system that enables PC
users to play from and record information to CDs; and the industry's first
3.5-inch disk drives with 8.7 gigabytes of storage capacity.
 
  Key software introductions in fiscal 1995 included the next generation of HP
JetAdmin network-printer management software, which helps users track and
manage individual print jobs; HP MeasureWare, which allows information
technology managers to understand and monitor the performance of distributed
computing
 
- --------
 
  (/1/) UNIX is a registered trademark in the United States and other
countries, licensed exclusively through X/Open(TM) Company Limited.
  X/Open is a trademark of X/Open Company Limited in the UK and other
countries.

 
environments; and the HP OpenView Solution Framework program, which addresses
customer needs for network, system, application and database management.
 
  The Company's peripheral products include a variety of system and desktop
printers, such as the HP LaserJet family; the HP DeskJet family, which is based
on the Company's thermal inkjet technology; a family of graphic plotters and
page scanners; video display terminals; disk (magnetic and optical) and tape
drives and related autochangers. In fiscal 1995, the Company introduced the HP
LaserJet 5L printer, which is designed for the home or small office and which
incorporates a suite of enabling technologies designed to optimize printer
performance regardless of the type of PC, operating system or application
being used. The Company also brought out the HP LaserJet 5Si MX printer, a
network printer that operates at 24 pages per minute and is more than 40
percent faster than its HP predecessor. Other key new products were the HP
DeskJet 660C printer, which replaced the HP DeskJet 560C and which uses newly
designed printheads and ink formulas that yield superior print quality for
black text and color images; the HP DeskJet 1600C printer, which prints color
output at four pages per minute; and the HP DeskJet 850C printer, designed for
the home or small office and able to produce near-photographic-quality color
output on plain paper. Other significant new products introduced this year
include the HP CopyJet color printer-copier, which combines inkjet printing
with digital imaging; the HP DesignJet 750C large-format color plotter; and the
HP ScanJet 4Si scanner, the industry's first network scanner.
 
  The Company also produces measurement systems for use in electronics,
medicine and analytical chemistry. Test and measurement instruments include
voltmeters and multimeters that measure voltage, current and resistance;
counters that measure the frequency of an electrical signal; oscilloscopes and
logic analyzers that measure electrical changes in relation to time; signal
generators that provide the electrical stimulus for the testing of systems and
components; specialized communications and semiconductor test equipment; and
atomic frequency standards, which are used in accurate time-interval and
timekeeping applications. Instruments for medical applications include
continuous monitoring systems for critical-care patients, medical data-
management systems, fetal monitors, electrocardiographs, cardiac
catheterization laboratory systems, blood gas measuring instruments,
diagnostic ultrasonic imaging systems and cardiac defibrillators. Instruments
for analytical applications include gas and liquid chromatographs, mass
spectrometers, laboratory data systems and spectrophotometers. Key
introductions for measurement systems in fiscal 1995 included the announcement
of technologies designed to synchronize better the timing of digital
communications networks; test sets for Groupe Speciale Mobile ("GSM"), a
global standard for cellular phones; the HP PalmVue system, which links
physicians outside a hospital to data on critical-care patients; and the HP
6890 Series of gas chromatographs, the Company's next-generation systems that
offer an extended range of automation features and built-in diagnostics.
 
  The Company continues to demonstrate its ability to combine measurement and
computation. The Company's Unified Laboratory strategy is designed to improve
a user's productivity by allowing computers in the analytical laboratory to
serve as adjuncts to analytical instrumentation while broadening the user's
ability to communicate with other parts of the organization. The Office of the
Chemist is a subset of the Unified Laboratory strategy in which an office-
based workstation or PC, with business software such as spreadsheets, is
combined with analytical equipment and data to allow a chemist to work more
efficiently. The Company's Clinical Information System combines patient data
from monitoring instruments with other information to assist nurses in
providing health care.
 
  The Company also manufactures electronic component products consisting
principally of microwave semiconductor, fiber-optic and optoelectronic
devices, including light-emitting diodes. The products are sold primarily to
other manufacturers for incorporation into their electronic products but also
are used in many of the Company's products. In fiscal 1995, the Company
introduced the industry's first low-cost serial infrared transceiver, which
makes possible "point and shoot" communication among devices such as laptop
computers and mobile phones. The Company also brought out second-generation
products for GSM.
 
  The Company provides service for its equipment, systems and peripherals,
including support and maintenance services, parts and supplies for design and
manufacturing systems, office and information systems,
 

 
general-purpose instruments, computers and computer systems, peripherals and
network products. During fiscal 1995, the Company derived 16 percent of its
net revenue from such services. This figure reflects a fiscal 1995
reclassification of revenue from consumable supplies, consisting primarily of
supplies for the Company's printer products, from the service to the product
category.
 
  The Company strives, in all its businesses, to promote industry standards
that recognize customer preferences for open systems in which different
vendors' products can work together. The Company often bases its product
innovations on such standards and seeks to make its technology innovations
into industry standards through licensing to other companies and standards-
setting groups. For example, during fiscal 1995 the Company's Standard
Template Library was accepted by a key standards committee as part of the
emerging standard for the C++ programming language.
 
MARKETING
 
  Customers. The Company has approximately 600 sales and support offices and
distributorships in more than 120 countries. Sales are made to industrial and
commercial customers, educational and scientific institutions, health care
providers (including individual doctors, hospitals, clinics and research
laboratories) and, in the case of its calculators and other personal
information products, computer peripherals and PCs, to individuals for
personal use.
 
  Sales Organization. More than half of the Company's orders are derived
through reseller channels, including dealers and original equipment
manufacturers. The remaining product orders result from the efforts of its own
sales organization selling to end users. Sales operations are supported by
approximately 35,000 individuals, including field service engineers, sales
representatives, service personnel and administrative support staff. In fiscal
1995, a higher proportion of the Company's net revenue than in fiscal 1994 was
generated from products such as personal peripherals, which are primarily sold
through resellers. As more of the Company's products are distributed through
resellers, these resellers become more important to the Company's success.
Some of these companies are thinly capitalized and may be unable to withstand
changes in business conditions. The Company's financial results could be
adversely affected if the financial condition of these resellers substantially
weakens.
 
  International. The Company's total orders originating outside the United
States, as a percentage of total company orders, were approximately 55 percent
in fiscal 1995 and 54 percent in fiscal 1994 and fiscal 1993. The majority of
these international orders were from customers other than foreign governments.
Approximately two-thirds of the Company's international orders in each of the
last three fiscal years were derived from Europe, with most of the balance
coming from Japan, other countries in Asia Pacific, Latin America and Canada.
 
  Most of the Company's sales in international markets are made by foreign
sales subsidiaries. In countries with low sales volume, sales are made through
various representative and distributorship arrangements. Certain sales in
international markets, however, are made directly by the Company from the
United States.
 
  The Company's international business is subject to risks customarily
encountered in foreign operations, including fluctuations in monetary exchange
rates, import and export controls and the economic, political and regulatory
policies of foreign governments. The Company believes that its international
diversification provides stability to its worldwide operations and reduces the
impact on the Company of adverse economic changes in any single country. A
summary of the Company's net revenue, earnings from operations and
identifiable assets by geographic area is found on page 44 of the Company's
1995 Annual Report to Shareholders, which page is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
COMPETITION
 
  The Company encounters aggressive competition in all areas of its business
activity. Its competitors are numerous, ranging from some of the world's
largest corporations to many relatively small and highly specialized
 

 
firms. The Company competes primarily on the basis of technology, performance,
price, quality, reliability, distribution and customer service and support.
The Company's reputation, the ease of use of its products and the ready
availability of customer training are also important competitive factors.
 
  The computer market is characterized by vigorous competition among major
corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and
rapidly growing firms. To remain competitive, the Company will be required to
continue to develop new products, periodically enhance its existing products
and compete effectively in the manner described above. In particular, the
Company anticipates that it will have to continue to adjust prices to stay
competitive and effectively manage growth with correspondingly reduced gross
margins.
 
  While the absence of reliable statistics makes it difficult to state the
Company's relative position, the Company believes that it is the second-
largest U.S.-based manufacturer of general-purpose computers, personal
peripherals such as desktop printers, and calculators and other personal
information products, all for industrial, scientific and business
applications. The markets for test-and-measurement instruments are influenced
by specialized manufacturers that often have great strength in narrow market
segments. In general, however, the Company believes that it is one of the
principal suppliers in these markets.
 
BACKLOG
 
  The Company believes that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future
business prospects due to the volume of products delivered from shelf
inventories, the shortening of product delivery schedules and the portion of
revenue related to its service and support business. Therefore, the Company
believes that backlog information is not material to an understanding of its
business.
 
PATENTS
 
  The Company's general policy has been to seek patent protection for those
inventions and improvements likely to be incorporated into its products or to
give the Company a competitive advantage. While the Company believes that its
patents and applications have value, in general no single patent is in itself
essential. The Company believes that its technological position depends
primarily on the technical competence and creative ability of its research and
development personnel.
 
MATERIALS
 
  The Company's manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of
semiconductors, electromechanical components and assemblies, and raw materials
such as plastic resins and sheet metal. The Company believes that the
materials and supplies necessary for its manufacturing operations are
presently available in the quantities required. The Company purchases
materials, supplies and product subassemblies from a substantial number of
vendors. For many of its products, the Company has existing alternate sources
of supply, or such sources are readily available. Portions of the Company's
manufacturing operations are dependent on the ability of significant suppliers
to deliver completed products, integral subassemblies and components in time
to meet critical distribution and manufacturing schedules. The failure of
suppliers to deliver these products, subassemblies and components in a timely
manner may adversely affect the Company's operating results until alternate
sourcing could be developed. In addition, the Company periodically experiences
constrained supply of certain component parts in some product lines as a
result of strong demand in those product lines as well as strong demand in the
industry. Continued supply constraints may adversely affect the Company's
operating results until alternate sourcing could be developed. The Company
believes that alternate suppliers or design solutions could be arranged within
a reasonable time so that material long-term adverse impacts would be
minimized.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
  The process of developing new high technology products is complex and
uncertain and requires innovative designs that anticipate customer needs and
technological trends. Without the introduction of new products and product
enhancements, the Company's products are likely to become technologically
obsolete, in which case
 

 
revenues would be materially and adversely affected. There can be no assurance
that such new products, if and when introduced, will receive market
acceptance. After the products are developed, the Company must quickly
manufacture products in sufficient volumes at acceptable costs to meet demand.
 
  Expenditures for research and development increased 14 percent in fiscal
1995 to $2.3 billion compared to $2.0 billion and 15 percent growth in fiscal
1994 and $1.8 billion and 9 percent growth in fiscal 1993. In fiscal 1995,
research and development expenditures were 7.3 percent of net revenue,
compared to 8.1 percent in fiscal 1994 and 8.7 percent in fiscal 1993. The
Company anticipates that it will continue to have significant research and
development expenditures in order to maintain its competitive position with a
continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products.
 
ENVIRONMENT
 
  The operations of the Company involve the use of substances regulated under
various federal, state and international laws governing the environment. It is
the Company's policy to apply strict standards for environmental protection to
sites inside and outside the U.S., even if not subject to regulations imposed
by local governments. The liability for environmental remediation and related
costs is accrued when it is considered probable and the costs can be
estimated. Environmental costs are presently not material to the Company's
operations or financial position.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
  The Company had approximately 102,300 employees worldwide at October 31,
1995.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  Information regarding the executive officers of the Company is set forth in
Part III below.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
  The principal executive offices of the Company are located at 3000 Hanover
Street, Palo Alto, California 94304. As of October 31, 1995, the Company owned
or leased a total of approximately 43.9 million square feet of space
worldwide. The Company believes that its existing properties are in good
condition and suitable for the conduct of its business.
 
  The Company's plants are equipped with machinery, most of which is owned by
the Company and is in part developed by it to meet the special requirements
for manufacturing precision electronic instruments and systems. At the end of
fiscal year 1995 the Company was productively utilizing the vast majority of
the space in its facilities, while actively disposing of space determined to
be excess.
 
  The Company anticipates that most of the capital necessary for expansion
will continue to be obtained from internally generated funds. Investment in
new property, plant and equipment amounted to $1.6 billion in fiscal 1995,
$1.3 billion in fiscal 1994 and $1.4 billion in fiscal 1993.
 
  As of October 31, 1995, the Company's marketing operations occupied
approximately 11.4 million square feet, of which 3.9 million square feet are
located within the United States. The Company owns 55% of the space used for
marketing activities and leases the remaining 45%.
 
  The Company's manufacturing plants, research and development facilities and
warehouse and administrative facilities occupied 32.5 million square feet, of
which 23.9 million square feet are located within the United States. The
Company owns 80% of its manufacturing, research and development, warehouse and
administrative space and leases the remaining 20%. None of the property owned
by the Company is held subject to any major encumbrances.
 
  The locations of the Company's geographic operations are listed on the
inside back cover of the Company's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders, which
page is incorporated herein by reference. The locations of the
 

 
Company's major product development and manufacturing facilities and the
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories are listed below:
 
  PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT           Aguadilla, Puerto Rico       Asia Pacific
  AND MANUFACTURING
                                Richardson, Texas            Melbourne,  
  Americas                                                   Australia 
  Cupertino, Folsom, Mountain   Everett, Spokane and 
  View, Newark, Palo Alto,      Vancouver, Washington        Beijing, Qingdao
  Rohnert Park, Roseville, San                               and Shenzhen,
  Diego, San Jose, Santa Clara, Brasilia, Brazil             China            
  Santa Rosa, Sunnyvale and                          
  Westlake Village, California  Edmonton, Calgary, Montreal  Bangalore, India
                                and Waterloo, Canada                         
  Colorado Springs, Fort Collins,                            Hachioji and    
  Greeley and Loveland,         Guadalajara, Mexico          Kobe, Japan      
  Colorado                                                                  
                                Europe                       Seoul, Korea    
  Wilmington, Delaware          Grenoble and L'Isle d'Abeau,                 
                                France                       Penang, Malaysia
  Boise, Idaho                                                                
                                Boeblingen and Waldbronn,    Singapore        
  Andover and Chelmsford,       Germany                                       
  Massachusetts                                              HEWLETT-PACKARD  
                                Bergamo, Italy               LABORATORIES   
  Exeter, New Hampshire                                                      
                                Amersfoort, The Netherlands  Palo Alto,     
  Rockaway, New Jersey                                       California      
                                Barcelona, Spain                             
  Corvallis and                                              Tokyo, Japan   
  McMinnville, Oregon           Bristol, Ipswich and South                   
                                Queensferry, United Kingdom  Bristol, United  
                                                             Kingdom          
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
  There are presently pending no legal proceedings, other than routine
litigation incidental to the Company's business, to which the Company is a
party or to which any of its property is subject.
 
  The Company is a party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by
federal or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), known as "superfund," or
state laws similar to CERCLA. The Company is also conducting environmental
investigation or remediation at several of its current or former operating
sites pursuant to administrative orders or consent agreements with state
environmental agencies. Any future liability from such proceedings, in the
aggregate, is not expected to be material to the operations or financial
position of the Company.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
  Not applicable.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS.
 
  Information regarding the market prices of the Company's Common Stock and
the markets for that stock may be found on pages 47 and 50, respectively, of
the Company's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders. The number of shareholders
and information concerning the Company's current dividend rate are set forth
in the section entitled "Common Stock, Dividend Policy" found on page 50 of
that report. Additional information concerning dividends may be found on pages
25, 32, 33 and 47 of the Company's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders. Such
pages (excluding order data) are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
  Selected financial data for the Company is set forth on page 25 of the
Company's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders, which page (excluding order
data) is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
 
  A discussion of the Company's financial condition, changes in financial
condition and results of operations appears in the "Financial Review" found on
pages 27-29 and 31 of the Company's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders. Such
pages (excluding order data) are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
  The consolidated financial statements of the Company, together with the
report thereon of Price Waterhouse LLP, independent accountants, and the
unaudited "Quarterly Summary" are set forth on pages 26, 30, 32-45 and 47 of
the Company's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders, which pages (excluding order
data and "Statement of Management Responsibility") are incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
  Not applicable.
 
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
  Information regarding directors of the Company who are standing for
reelection is set forth under "Election of Directors" on pages 4-8 of the
Company's Notice of Annual Meeting of Shareholders and Proxy Statement, dated
January 15, 1996 (the "Notice and Proxy Statement"), which pages are
incorporated herein by reference.
 
  Information regarding directors of the Company who are retiring on February
27, 1996 is set forth below:
 
DIRECTORS WHO ARE RETIRING:
 
HAROLD J. HAYNES; AGE 70; RETIRED CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER,CHEVRON CORPORATION
 
  Mr. Haynes was elected a director of the Company in 1981. He was Chairman of
the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation from 1974 until
his retirement in 1981. Mr. Haynes is a director of PACCAR, Inc., Bechtel
Group, Inc., Citicorp, Citibank, N.A., Fremont Group, Inc., Saudi Arabian Oil
Company and The Boeing Company.
 

 
SHIRLEY M. HUFSTEDLER; AGE 70; SENIOR OF COUNSEL, MORRISON & FOERSTER
(ATTORNEYS)
 
  Ms. Hufstedler became a director of the Company in 1982. She served as U.S.
Secretary of Education from 1979 to 1981 and was a judge on the U.S. Court of
Appeals, 9th Circuit, from 1968 to 1979. Ms. Hufstedler is a trustee of the
California Institute of Technology and the Lucille Simon Foundation. She is a
trustee emeritus of the 9th Circuit Historical Society, Occidental College,
the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation, the Carnegie Foundation for
International Peace and the Institute for Court Management. She is a director
of the MacArthur Foundation, Lawyers Alliance for World Security, Salzburg
Seminar, U S WEST, Inc. and Harman International Industries, Inc.
 
  The names of the executive officers of the Company, their ages, titles and
biographies as of December 29, 1995, are set forth below. All officers are
elected for one-year terms.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS:
 
JAMES L. ARTHUR; AGE 61; SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER, WORLDWIDE
CUSTOMER SUPPORT OPERATIONS.
 
  Mr. Arthur assumed his current position as General Manager of the Company's
Worldwide Customer Support Operations in 1989. He became a Vice President of
the Company in 1982 and a Senior Vice President in 1987.
 
EDWARD W. BARNHOLT; AGE 52; SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER, TEST
AND MEASUREMENT ORGANIZATION.
 
  Mr. Barnholt was elected a Senior Vice President in 1993. He became Vice
President and General Manager, Test and Measurement Organization, with
responsibility for the Company's Electronic Instrument, Automatic Test,
Microwave and Communications and Communications Solutions Groups in 1990. Mr.
Barnholt was elected a Vice President of the Company in 1988. He is a director
of KLA Instruments Corporation.
 
RICHARD E. BELLUZZO; AGE 42; EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER,
COMPUTER ORGANIZATION.
 
  Mr. Belluzzo was elected a Senior Vice President in January 1995. In August
1995, he assumed management responsibility for the newly formed Computer
Organization and was elected an Executive Vice President. He was General
Manager of the Computer Products Organization from 1993 to August 1995. He
served as General Manager of the InkJet Products Group from 1991 to 1993 and
as General Manager of the Boise Printer Division from 1988 to 1991. He was
elected a Vice President in 1992. He is a director of Proxima Corporation.
 
ALAN D. BICKELL; AGE 59; SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND MANAGING DIRECTOR,
GEOGRAPHIC OPERATIONS.
 
  Mr. Bickell was elected a Vice President in 1984. He was Managing Director
of Intercontinental Operations from 1974 until 1992, when he was elected to
his current position. He is a director of Junior Achievement International.
 
JOEL S. BIRNBAUM; AGE 58; SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
 
  Mr. Birnbaum was elected a Senior Vice President in 1993. He became Vice
President, Research and Development and Director, HP Laboratories in September
1991. Additionally, he served as General Manager, Information Architecture
Group from 1988 until 1991. He was elected a Vice President in 1984. He is a
director of Corporation for National Research Infrastructure.
 
S.T. JACK BRIGHAM III; AGE 56; SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE AFFAIRS AND
GENERAL COUNSEL.
 
  Mr. Brigham was elected a Senior Vice President in 1995 and a Vice President
in 1982. He became Vice President, Corporate Affairs in 1992. He has served as
General Counsel since 1976.
 

 
DOUGLAS K. CARNAHAN; AGE 54; SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER,
MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS ORGANIZATION.
 
  Mr. Carnahan was elected a Senior Vice President in 1995 and has been in his
current position since October 1993. He was General Manager of the Publishing
Products Business Unit from 1988 to 1991 and was General Manager of the
Printing Systems Group from 1991 to 1993. He was elected a Vice President in
1992.
 
RAYMOND W. COOKINGHAM; AGE 52; VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER.
 
  Mr. Cookingham was elected a Vice President in 1993. He has served as
Controller since 1986.
 
F. E. (PETE) PETERSON; AGE 54; SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, PERSONNEL.
 
  Mr. Peterson was elected to his current position in 1995. He was elected a
Vice President in 1992. He has served as Director of Corporate Personnel since
1990.
 
LEWIS E. PLATT; AGE 54; CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER, AND CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
 
  Mr. Platt has served as a director of the Company, President and Chief
Executive Officer since November 1992 and has served as Chairman since 1993.
He was an Executive Vice President from 1987 to 1992. Mr. Platt held a number
of management positions in the Company prior to becoming its President,
including managing the Computer Systems Organization from 1990 to 1992. He is
a director of Molex Inc. and Pacific Telesis. He also serves on the Wharton
School Board of Overseers.
 
WILLEM P. ROELANDTS; AGE 50; SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER,
COMPUTER SYSTEMS ORGANIZATION.
 
  Mr. Roelandts resigned from the Company on January 10, 1996. Prior to his
resignation, he had been a Senior Vice President since 1993. He served as
General Manager of the Networked Systems Group in the Computer Systems
Organization from 1990 until he was elected a Vice President and General
Manager, Computer Systems Organization in 1992.
 
ROBERT P. WAYMAN; AGE 50; EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION
AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER.
 
  Mr. Wayman has served as a director of the Company since December 1993. He
has been an Executive Vice President responsible for finance and
administration since 1992. He has held a number of financial management
positions in the Company and was elected a Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer in 1984. He is a director of Consolidated Freightways, Inc. and Sybase
Inc. He also serves as a member of the Board of the Private Sector Council and
of the Kellogg Advisory Board, Northwestern University.
 
  Information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 is set forth on page 11 of the Notice and Proxy
Statement, which page is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
  Information regarding the Company's compensation of its named executive
officers is set forth on pages 12-19 of the Notice and Proxy Statement, which
pages are incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding the
Company's compensation of its directors is set forth on pages 2-4 and 26 of
the Notice and Proxy Statement, which pages are incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
  Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is set forth on pages 8-11 of the Notice and Proxy Statement, which
pages are incorporated herein by reference.
 

 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
  Information regarding transactions with the Company's executive officers and
directors is set forth on page 26 of the Notice and Proxy Statement, which
page is incorporated herein by reference.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
  (a)The following documents are filed as part of this report:
 
    1.Financial Statements:
 

- --------
*  Incorporated by reference from the indicated pages of the Company's 1995
   Annual Report to Shareholders.
 
    2.Financial Statement Schedules:
 
      None.
 

 
    3.Exhibits:
 

 

 

- --------
* Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.
 
  Exhibit numbers may not correspond in all cases to those numbers in Item 601
of Regulation S-K because of special requirements applicable to EDGAR filers.
 
  (b) Reports on Form 8-K
 
  None.
 

 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                          HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
 
Date: January 19, 1996                    By:        D. Craig Nordlund
                                            ___________________________________
                                                     D. CRAIG NORDLUND
                                               ASSOCIATE GENERAL COUNSEL AND
                                                         SECRETARY
 
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
  Know All Persons By These Presents, that each person whose signature appears
below constitutes and appoints D. Craig Nordlund and Ann O. Baskins, or either
of them, his or her attorneys-in-fact, for such person in any and all
capacities, to sign any amendments to this report and to file the same, with
exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
either of said attorneys-in-fact, or substitute or substitutes, may do or
cause to be done by virtue hereof.
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.
 

 

 

 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 


 

- --------
* Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.

 
                            GRAPHICS APPENDIX LIST*

* In this Appendix, the following descriptions of certain bar charts and graphs
in the Company's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders that are omitted from the
EDGAR version are more specific with respect to the actual numbers, amounts and
percentages than is determinable from the bar charts and graphs themselves. The
Company submits such more specific descriptions only for the purpose of
complying with the requirements for transmitting this Annual Report on Form 10-K
electronically via EDGAR; such more specific descriptions are not intended in
any way to provide information that is additional to the information otherwise
provided in the Annual Report.

EDGAR version - Page 25

A bar chart entitled "Total Orders (In millions)" at the bottom left of page 25
of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders shows that for the fiscal years 1991,
1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 (shown on the x-axis) the Company had total orders
(shown on the y-axis) in the respective amounts provided in the table entitled
"Selected Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page 25 of the Annual Report.

A bar chart entitled "Earnings from Operations (In millions)" at the bottom
center of page 25 of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders shows that for the
fiscal years 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 (shown on the x-axis) the Company
had earnings from operations (shown on the y-axis) in the respective amounts
provided in the table entitled "Selected Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page 25
of the Annual Report.

A bar chart entitled "Employees and Net Revenue Per Employee (In thousands)" at
the bottom right of page 25 of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders shows that
for the fiscal years 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 (shown on the x-axis) the
Company had employees in the respective amounts (shown on the y-axis)  provided
in the table entitled "Selected Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page 25 of the
Annual Report.  In addition, the graph shows that for the fiscal years 1991,
1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 (shown on the x-axis) the Company had net revenue per
employee  (shown on the y-axis) of $160,000, $180,800, $215,200, $256,900 and
$314,100, respectively.


EDGAR version - Page 27

A graph entitled "Net Revenue (In millions)" at the top right of page 27 of the
1995 Annual Report to Shareholders shows that for the fiscal years 1991, 1992,
1993, 1994 and 1995 (shown on the x-axis) the Company had total net revenue
(shown on the y-axis) in the respective amounts provided in the table entitled
"Selected Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page 25 of the Annual Report; and
international net revenue of $8,104 million, $9,198 million, $10,971 million,
$13,522 million and $17,556 million, respectively. In addition, the graph shows
that for the fiscal years 1991 and 1992 (shown on the x-axis) the company had
U.S. net revenue (shown on the y-axis) of

 
$6,390 million and $7,212 million, respectively; and U.S. net revenue for the
fiscal years 1993, 1994 and 1995 (shown on the x-axis) in the respective amounts
(shown on the y-axis) provided in the section entitled "Geographic Area
Information" under the caption "United States: Unaffiliated customer sales" in
the table on page 44 of the Annual Report.

A graph entitled "U.S. Dollar Relative to Major Foreign Currencies (Fiscal 1980
equals 1.00)" at the bottom right of page 27 of the 1995 Annual Report to
Shareholders shows that in the months running consecutively from November 1990
through October 1995 (shown on the x-axis) the U.S. Dollar was equal to (shown
on the y-axis) .98, 1.00, 1.00, .96, 1.05, 1.10, 1.11, 1.15, 1.15,1.13,1.10,
1.10, 1.06, 1.04, 1.04, 1.07, 1.09, 1.09,1.06, 1.04, .99, .98, .99, 1.04, 1.11,
1.12, 1.14, 1.17, 1.17, 1.13, 1.13, 1.15, 1.19, 1.20, 1.16, 1.18, 1.21, 1.21,
1.22, 1.21, 1.19, 1.19, 1.18, 1.16, 1.13, 1.13, 1.12, 1.09, 1.11, 1.13, 1.12,
1.11, 1.07, 1.06, 1.06, 1.06, 1.05, 1.07, 1.08, and 1.06 respectively,
multiplied by the currencies of the following foreign countries, with varying
weights assigned to each of such currencies: Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland and United Kingdom.

EDGAR version - Page 28

A graph entitled "Costs and Expenses (As a percentage of net revenue)" at the
top left of page 28 of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders shows that for the
fiscal years 1991 and 1992 (shown on the x-axis) the Company had (shown on the
y-axis) cost of equipment sold and services of 54.2% and 55.8%, respectively, of
net revenue; selling, general and administrative expenses of 27.4% and 25.7%,
respectively, of net revenue; and research and development expenses of 10.1% and
9.9%, respectively, of net revenue. In addition, the graph shows that for the
fiscal years 1993, 1994 and 1995 (shown on the x-axis) the Company had, as a
percentage of net revenue (shown on the y-axis), cost of equipment sold and
services, selling, general and administrative expenses and research and
development expenses in the respective amounts provided in the table at the top
of page 28 of the Annual Report.

A bar chart entitled "Net Earnings (In millions)" at the bottom left of page 28
of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders shows that for the fiscal years 1991,
1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 (shown on the x-axis) the Company had net earnings
(shown on the y-axis) in the respective amounts provided in the table entitled
"Selected Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page 25 of the Annual Report.


EDGAR Version - Page 29

A bar chart entitled "Selected Cash Flows (In millions)" at the top right of
page 29 of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders shows that for the fiscal
years 1991 and 1992 (shown on the x-axis) the Company had cash flows from
operating activities (shown on the y-axis) of $1,552 million and $1,288 million,
respectively; capital expenditures of

 
$862 million and $1,032 million, respectively; and dividends paid of $120
million and $183 million, respectively. In addition, the bar chart shows that
for the fiscal years 1993, 1994 and 1995 (shown on the x-axis) the Company had
cash flows from operating activities and dividends paid (shown on the y-axis) in
the respective amounts provided in the table entitled "Consolidated Statement of
Cash Flows" on page 32 of the Annual Report. Finally, the bar chart shows that
for the fiscal years 1993, 1994 and 1995 (shown on the x-axis) the Company had
capital expenditures (shown on the y-axis) in the respective amounts shown as
"Investment in property, plant and equipment" provided in the table entitled
"Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows" on page 32 of the Annual Report.

A graph entitled "Asset Management (As a percentage of net revenue)" at the
bottom right of page 29 of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders shows that for
the fiscal years 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 (shown on the x-axis) the
Company had (shown on the y-axis) net property, plant and equipment of 23.1%,
22.2%, 20.6%, 17.3%, and 14.9% respectively, of net revenue; accounts and notes
receivable of 20.5%, 21.3%, 20.7%, 20.1% and 21.4%, respectively, of net
revenue; and inventories of 15.7%, 15.9%, 18.2%, 17.1% and 19.1%, respectively,
of net revenue.

EDGAR Version - Page 47

A bar chart entitled "Net Earnings Per Share (In dollars)" at the top right of
page 47 of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders shows that for the fiscal
quarters in the years of 1994 and 1995 (shown on the x-axis) the Company had net
earnings per share (shown on the y-axis) in the respective amounts provided in
the table entitled "Quarterly Summary (Unaudited)" on page 47 of the Annual
Report.  In addition, a note to the bar chart states that these amounts have
been restated for the effect of a 2 for 1 stock split in 1995.

A bar chart entitled "Range of Common Stock Prices (In dollars per share)" at
the bottom right of page 47 of the 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders shows that
for the fiscal quarters in the years 1994 and 1995 (shown on the x-axis) the
range of stock prices (shown on the y-axis) was in the respective amounts
provided in the tables entitled "Quarterly Summary (Unaudited)" on page 47 of
the Annual Report. In addition, a note to the bar chart states that these
amounts have been restated for the effect of a 2 for 1 stock split in 1995.

