
10-K405
FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1997



 
================================================================================
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
            [X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1997
 
                                       OR
 
          [ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                         FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM
                               --------------- TO
                                ---------------
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 1-4423
 
                            HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
              EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER
 

 
                3000 HANOVER STREET, PALO ALTO, CALIFORNIA 94304
                     ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES
 
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (650) 857-1501
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                                      None
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]     No [ ]
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]
 
     The aggregate market value of the registrant's common stock held by
nonaffiliates as of December 26, 1997 was $50,290,256,964.
 
     Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer's classes
of common stock as of December 26, 1997: 1,040,113,000 shares of $1 par value
common stock.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 

 
================================================================================

 
                                     PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
 
     Hewlett-Packard Company was incorporated in 1947 under the laws of the
State of California as the successor to a partnership founded in 1939 by William
R. Hewlett and David Packard.
 
     On a worldwide basis, Hewlett-Packard Company, together with its
consolidated subsidiaries (the "Company"), designs, manufactures and services
products and systems for measurement, computation and communications. The
Company offers a wide variety of systems and standalone products, including
computer systems, personal computers ("PCs"), printers and other hardcopy and
imaging products, calculators and other personal information products,
electronic test equipment and systems, medical electronic equipment, components
based on optoelectronic, silicon and compound semiconductor technologies, and
instrumentation for chemical analysis. Services such as systems integration,
network systems outsourcing management, consulting, education, product financing
and rentals, as well as customer support and maintenance, are also an integral
part of the Company's offerings. These products and services are used in
industry, business, engineering, science, medicine and education. A summary of
the Company's net revenue as contributed by its major groupings of similar
products and services appears on page 55 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which page (excluding order data) is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
     The Company's computer systems, computers, personal information products
and hardcopy and imaging products are used in a variety of applications,
including scientific and engineering computation and analysis, instrument
control and business information management. The Company's core computing
products and technologies include its PA-RISC architecture for systems and
workstations, its Explicitly Parallel Instruction Computing technology, jointly
developed with Intel Corporation, that will provide the foundation for next-
generation, 64-bit high-end systems; and software infrastructure for open
systems. The Company's general-purpose computers and computer systems include
scalable families of PCs, servers and systems for use in homes, home offices and
small offices, small workgroups, larger departments and entire enterprises. Key
product families include the HP 9000 series, which runs HP-UX, the Company's
implementation of the UNIX(R)(1) operating system, and comprises multiuser
computers for both technical and commercial applications as well as workstations
with powerful computational and graphics capabilities; the HP NetServer series
of PC servers; the HP Vectra series of PCs for use in business, engineering,
manufacturing and chemical analysis; and the HP Pavilion multimedia home PCs.
The Company offers associated services in software programming, networking,
distributed systems and data management. Customers of the Company's computers,
computer systems, and software infrastructure products include original
equipment manufacturers, dealers, value-added resellers and retailers, as well
as end users for a variety of applications.
 
     In the field of computing during fiscal 1997, the Company introduced a wide
variety of new products and systems, including the HP 9000 V-Class enterprise
server for use in decision-support, data-warehousing, transaction-processing,
engineering and scientific applications; new HP 9000 D-Class enterprise servers
for superior entry-level performance; new HP NetServer LX and LXr systems that
integrate Intel Corporation's Pentium(R)(2) Pro 200MHz microprocessor; and the
PA-8500 microprocessor, the most recent addition to the Company's family of
HP-PA microprocessors that are currently commercially available.
 
     This year the Company also introduced new HP Vectra PCs, including the HP
Vectra XA, the HP Vectra VL and the HP Vectra VA models, and a next-generation
family of HP Pavilion multimedia PCs that deliver imaging and Internet
capabilities for retail prices less than US$1,000. In early fiscal 1998, the
Company also introduced HP Pavilion multimedia PCs with retail prices less than
US$800. Other product introductions during fiscal 1997 included the HP Kayak PC
workstation family of personal workstations that is
 
- ---------------
 
(1) UNIX is a registered trademark of The Open Group.
 
(2) Pentium is a U.S. registered trademark of Intel Corporation.
 

 
based on Microsoft (R) Windows (R) NT(3) and Intel's Pentium II processor; and
the HP Brio family of small-business PCs.
 
     In addition to services such as systems integration, network systems
management outsourcing, consulting, education, product financing and rentals,
the Company provides service for its equipment, systems, and hardcopy and
imaging products. This service includes support and maintenance services, parts
and supplies for the following: design and manufacturing systems, office and
information systems, general-purpose instruments, computers and computer
systems, networking, hardcopy and imaging products. In fiscal 1997, the Company
derived 15 percent of its revenue from such services. Key service introductions
in fiscal 1997 included HP Critical Systems Support, a package of hardware,
applications and services that guarantees 99.95 percent system uptime in
high-availability, UNIX system environments; and HP Scalable Services for
Windows NT, under which the Company commits to resolving Windows NT system
hardware issues within six hours of receiving a customer call.
 
     Key software events in fiscal 1997 included a number of enhancements to HP
OpenView, the Company's suite of products and services for integrated network,
system, application and database management, including HP OpenView Desktop
Administrator, a set of tools and services for managing desktop networks; and
the HP OpenView IT service-management program. During 1997, the Company also
acquired VeriFone, Inc., a leader in the electronic-business marketplace.
 
     The Company's hardcopy and imaging products include a variety of system and
desktop printers, such as the HP LaserJet family, and the HP DeskJet family,
which is based on the Company's thermal inkjet technology. The Company also
markets large-format printers, scanners, PC photography products and all-in-one
products that perform copying, printing, scanning and faxing functions. Key
introductions in these product families in fiscal 1997 included the HP LaserJet
4000 family, which prints at 17 pages per minute, and the HP DeskJet 722C/890C
printers, which incorporate new HP technologies for photo-quality printing. This
year the Company also introduced the HP ScanJet 5p, a desktop scanner, the
HP6100C Professional Series family of scanners, and the HP OfficeJet 600 and
OfficeJet Pro 1150Cse series of all-in-one products, as well as the PhotoSmart
family of PC photography products.
 
     In the information-storage business, the Company introduced the HP
SureStore CD-Writer Plus, which enables users to write and rewrite 650 Megabytes
of data on a compact disk.
 
     The Company also produces systems that are used for a wide range of testing
and measurement functions in electronics, medicine and chemical analysis. Key
introductions in test and measurement in fiscal 1997 included the HP 83000
multimedia test series for semiconductor test, and the HP Infinium family of
oscilloscopes. In the Company's medical business, the Company introduced the HP
SONOS 5500 system for cardiovascular ultrasound. In the chemical-analysis
business, the Company brought out the HP GeneArray Scanner, which can
substantially reduce the time it takes to analyze targeted DNA mutations.
 
     The Company also makes electronic component products, consisting
principally of microwave semiconductor, fiber-optic and optoelectronic devices,
including light-emitting diodes (LEDs). These products are sold primarily to
other manufacturers for use in their electronic products, but many of the
Company's products incorporate them as well. In fiscal 1997, the Company
announced a single-chip, interface controller integrated circuit that helps
enable high-performance, mass-storage applications.
 
MARKETING
 
     Customers. The Company has approximately 600 sales and support offices and
distributorships in more than 120 countries. Sales are made to industrial and
commercial customers, educational and scientific institutions, healthcare
providers (including individual doctors, hospitals, clinics and research
laboratories), and, in the case of its PCs, hardcopy, imaging and other
personal-information products, to individuals for personal use.
 
- ---------------
 
(3) Windows is a U.S. registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. Windows NT
     is a U.S. registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.
 

 
     Sales Organization. More than half of the Company's net revenue is derived
through reseller channels, including retailers, dealers and original equipment
manufacturers. The remaining revenue results from the efforts of its own sales
organization. These direct sales operations are supported by field service
engineers, sales representatives, service personnel and administrative support
staff. The Company generated a higher proportion of its net revenue in fiscal
1997 than in fiscal 1996 from its PCs, printers and other personal-information
products, which are sold through resellers. The financial health of these
resellers, and the Company's continuing relationships with such resellers, are
becoming more important to the Company's success. Some of these companies are
thinly capitalized and may be unable to withstand changes in business
conditions. The Company's financial results could be adversely affected if the
financial condition of certain of these resellers substantially weakens or if
the Company's relationship with such resellers deteriorates.
 
     Resellers constantly adjust their ordering patterns in response to the
Company's and its competitors' supply into the channel, and in response to the
timing of their new product introductions and relative feature sets, as well as
seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand, such as the back-to-school and holiday
selling periods. Resellers may increase orders during times of shortages, cancel
orders if the channel is filled with currently available products, or delay
orders in anticipation of new products.
 
     International. The Company's net revenue originating outside the United
States, as a percentage of the Company's total net revenue, was approximately 56
percent in each of fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995, the majority of which was from
customers other than foreign governments. Approximately two-thirds of the
Company's international revenue in each of the last three fiscal years was
derived from Europe, with most of the balance coming from Japan and other
countries in Asia Pacific, Latin America and Canada.
 
     Foreign sales subsidiaries make most of the Company's sales in
international markets. In countries with low sales volumes, various
representatives and distributors make most of the Company's sales. However,
certain sales in international markets are made directly from the United States.
 
     The Company's international business is subject to risks customarily
encountered in foreign operations, including changes in a specific country's or
region's political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or
export licensing requirements, the overlap of different tax structures,
unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and natural disasters. The Company
is also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in its sales
commitments, anticipated sales and assets and liabilities denominated in
currencies other than the U.S. dollar, as well as interest rate risk inherent in
the Company's debt, investment and finance receivable portfolios. The Company's
risk management strategy utilizes derivative financial instruments, including
forwards, swaps and purchased options to hedge certain of these foreign currency
and interest rate exposures. As of October 31, 1997, a sensitivity analysis
performed by the Company indicated that adverse movements in foreign exchange
rates and interest rates applied to hedging contracts and the underlying
exposures described above would not have a material effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Actual
gains and losses in the future may differ materially from that analysis,
however, based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate and foreign
currency exchange rate movements and the Company's actual exposures and hedges.
 
     The Company believes that its international diversification provides
stability to its worldwide operations and reduces the impact on the Company of
adverse economic changes in any single country. A summary of the Company's net
revenue, earnings from operations and identifiable assets by geographic area
appears on page 53 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders, which
page is incorporated herein by reference.
 
COMPETITION
 
     The Company encounters aggressive competition in all areas of its business
activity. The Company's competitors are numerous, ranging from some of the
world's largest corporations to many relatively small and highly specialized
firms. The Company competes primarily on the basis of technology, performance,
price, quality, reliability, distribution and customer service and support. The
Company's reputation, the ease of use of its products and the ready availability
of multiple software applications and customer training are also important
competitive factors.
 

 
     The computer market is characterized by vigorous competition among major
corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and
rapidly growing firms. Product life cycles are short, and, to remain
competitive, the Company must develop new products and services, periodically
enhance its existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis
of the factors listed above. In particular, the Company anticipates that it will
have to continue to adjust prices of many of its products and services to stay
competitive, and will have to effectively manage financial returns with reduced
gross margins.
 
     While the absence of reliable statistics makes it difficult to state the
Company's relative position with certainty, the Company believes that it is the
second-largest U.S.-based manufacturer of general-purpose computers,
personal-information, hardcopy and imaging products such as printers for
industrial, scientific and business applications. The markets for
test-and-measurement equipment are influenced by specialized manufacturers that
often have great strength in narrow market niches. In general, however, the
Company believes that it is one of the principal suppliers in these markets.
 
BACKLOG
 
     The Company believes that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future
business prospects due to the large volume of products delivered from shelf
inventories, the shortening of product life cycles and the portion of revenue
related to its service and support business. Therefore, the Company believes
that backlog information is not material to an understanding of its business.
 
PATENTS
 
     The Company's general policy has been to seek patent protection for those
inventions and improvements likely to be incorporated into its products and
services or to give the Company a competitive advantage. While the Company
believes that its patents and applications have value, in general no single
patent is in itself essential. In addition, there can be no assurance that any
of the Company's proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or
circumvented, or that any such rights will provide significant competitive
advantages.
 
MATERIALS
 
     The Company's manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of
semiconductors, electromechanical components and assemblies, and raw materials
such as plastic resins and sheet metal. The Company believes that the materials
and supplies necessary for its manufacturing operations are presently available
in the quantities required. The Company purchases materials, supplies and
product subassemblies from a substantial number of vendors. For many of its
products, the Company has existing alternate sources of supply, or such sources
are readily available. In certain instances, however, the Company enters into
noncancelable purchase commitments with, or makes advance payments to, certain
suppliers to ensure supply. Portions of the Company's manufacturing operations
are dependent on the ability of suppliers to deliver quality components,
subassemblies and completed products in time to meet critical manufacturing and
distribution schedules. The failure of suppliers to deliver these components,
subassemblies and products in a timely manner may adversely affect the Company's
operating results until alternate sourcing can be developed. In addition, the
Company periodically experiences constrained supply of certain component parts
in some product lines as a result of strong demand in the industry for those
parts. Such constraints, if persistent, may adversely affect the Company's
operating results. However, the Company believes that alternate suppliers or
design solutions could be arranged within a reasonable time so that material
long-term adverse impacts would be minimized.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The process of developing new high-technology products and solutions is
inherently complex and uncertain. It requires, among other things, innovation
and accurate anticipation of customers' changing needs and emerging
technological trends. Without the introduction of new products, services and
enhancements, the Company's products and services are likely to become
technologically obsolete over time, in which case revenues would be materially
and adversely affected. There can be no assurance that such new products and
 

 
services, if and when introduced, will achieve market acceptance. After the
products and services are developed, the Company must quickly manufacture and
deliver such products and services in sufficient volumes at acceptable costs to
meet demand.
 
     Expenditures for research and development increased 13 percent in fiscal
1997 to $3.1 billion, compared with 18 percent growth and expenditures of $2.7
billion in fiscal 1996 and 14 percent growth and expenditures of $2.3 billion in
fiscal 1995. In fiscal 1997, research and development expenditures were 7.2
percent of net revenue, compared with 7.1 percent in fiscal 1996 and 7.3 percent
in fiscal 1995. The Company anticipates that it will continue to have
significant research and development expenditures in order to maintain its
competitive position with a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products
and services.
 
ENVIRONMENT
 
     Certain of the Company's operations involve the use of substances regulated
under various federal, state and international laws governing the environment.
It is the Company's policy to apply strict standards for environmental
protection to sites inside and outside the U.S., even if not subject to
regulations imposed by local governments. The liability for environmental
remediation and related costs is accrued when it is considered probable and the
costs can be reasonably estimated. Environmental costs are presently not
material to the Company's operations or financial position.
 
YEAR 2000
 
     Many computer systems experience problems handling dates beyond the year
1999. Therefore, some computer hardware and software will need to be modified
prior to the year 2000 in order to remain functional. The Company is assessing
both the internal readiness of its computer systems and the compliance of its
computer products and software sold to customers for handling the year 2000. The
Company expects to implement successfully the systems and programming changes
necessary to address year 2000 issues, and does not believe that the cost of
such actions will have a material effect on the Company's results of operations
or financial condition. There can be no assurance, however, that there will not
be a delay in, or increased costs associated with, the implementation of such
changes, and the Company's inability to implement such changes could have an
adverse effect on future results of operations.
 
     The Company is also assessing the possible effects on the Company's
operations of the year 2000 readiness of key suppliers and subcontractors. The
Company's reliance on suppliers and subcontractors, and, therefore, on the
proper functioning of their information systems and software, means that failure
to address year 2000 issues could have a material impact on the Company's
operations and financial results; however, the potential impact and related
costs are not known at this time.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     The Company had approximately 121,900 employees worldwide at October 31,
1997.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Information regarding the executive officers of the Company is set forth in
Part III below.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
     The principal executive offices of the Company are located at 3000 Hanover
Street, Palo Alto, California 94304. As of October 31, 1997, the Company owned
or leased a total of approximately 51.0 million square feet of space worldwide.
The Company believes that its existing properties are in good condition and
suitable for the conduct of its business.
 
     The Company's plants are equipped with machinery, most of which is owned by
the Company and is in part developed by it to meet the special requirements for
manufacturing computers, peripherals, precision electronic instruments and
systems. At the end of fiscal year 1997, the Company was productively utilizing
the vast majority of the space in its facilities, while actively disposing of
space determined to be excess.
 

 
     The Company anticipates that most of the capital necessary for expansion
will continue to be obtained from internally generated funds. Investment in new
property, plant and equipment amounted to $2.3 billion in fiscal 1997, $2.2
billion in fiscal 1996 and $1.6 billion in fiscal 1995.
 
     As of October 31, 1997, the Company's marketing operations occupied
approximately 12.8 million square feet, of which 5.2 million square feet were
located within the United States. The Company owns 52% of the space used for
marketing activities and leases the remaining 48%.
 
     The Company's manufacturing plants, research and development facilities and
warehouse and administrative facilities occupied 38.2 million square feet, of
which 28.6 million square feet were located within the United States. The
Company owns 75% of its manufacturing, research and development, warehouse and
administrative space and leases the remaining 25%. None of the property owned by
the Company is held subject to any major encumbrances.
 
     The locations of the Company's geographic operations are listed on the
inside back cover of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders, which
page is incorporated herein by reference. The locations of the Company's major
product development and manufacturing facilities and the Hewlett-Packard
Laboratories are listed below:
 
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND MANUFACTURING
 

 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     There are presently pending no legal proceedings, other than routine
litigation incidental to the Company's business, to which the Company is a party
or to which any of its property is subject.
 
     The Company is a party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by
federal or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), known as "Superfund," or
state laws similar to CERCLA. The Company is also conducting environmental
investigations or remediations at several of its current or former operating
sites pursuant to administrative orders or consent agreements with state
environmental agencies. Any liability from such proceedings, in the aggregate,
is not expected to be material to the operations or financial position of the
Company.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     Not applicable.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
     Information regarding the market prices of the Company's Common Stock and
the markets for that stock appears on page 56 and the inside back cover,
respectively, of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders. The number of
shareholders and information concerning the Company's current dividend rate are
set forth in the section entitled "Common Stock and Dividends" found on the
inside back cover of that report. Additional information concerning dividends
appears on pages 31, 40, 41 and 56 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to
Shareholders. Such pages (excluding order data) are incorporated herein by
reference.
 
     On October 14, 1997, the Company sold $2.0 billion aggregate principal
amount at maturity of convertible zero-coupon subordinated notes due 2017 (the
"Notes"). The Notes were offered to qualified institutional buyers, as defined
in, and in reliance on, Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933 (the
"Securities Act"), through Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith Incorporated and to investors outside the United States pursuant to the
requirements of Regulation S under the Securities Act. The Notes were sold for
cash. The aggregate offering price of the Notes was $1,075,700,000 (excluding
accrued interest), and the aggregate underwriting commissions were $24,200,000.
The Notes are convertible into shares of the Company's Common Stock, $1.00 par
value per share (the "Common Stock"), at the option of the holders thereof at
any time on or prior to maturity, unless previously redeemed or otherwise
purchased. Upon conversion, the Company may elect to deliver the Common Stock at
a conversion rate of 5.430 shares per $1,000 principal amount at maturity or
cash in an amount based upon the value of the shares of Common Stock into which
the Notes are convertible.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     Selected financial data for the Company is set forth on page 31 of the
Company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders, which page (excluding order data)
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
     A discussion of the Company's financial condition, changes in financial
condition and results of operations appears in the "Financial Review" on pages
33-35 and 37-39 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders. Such pages
(excluding order data) are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
     A discussion of the Company's exposure to, and management of, market risk
appears in the "Financial Review" on page 38 of the Company's 1997 Annual Report
to Shareholders. Such page is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The consolidated financial statements of the Company, together with the
report thereon of Price Waterhouse LLP, independent accountants, and the
unaudited "Quarterly Summary" are set forth on pages 32, 36, 40-54 and 56 of the
Company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders, which pages (excluding order data
and "Statement of Management Responsibility") are incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     Not applicable.
 

 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Information regarding directors of the Company who are standing for
reelection is set forth under "Election of Directors" on pages 4-6 of the
Company's Notice of Annual Meeting of Shareholders and Proxy Statement, dated
January 12, 1998 (the "Notice and Proxy Statement"), which pages are
incorporated herein by reference.
 
     Information regarding a director of the Company who is retiring on February
24, 1998 is set forth below:
 
DIRECTOR WHO IS RETIRING:
 
PAUL F. MILLER, JR.; AGE 70; RETIRED PARTNER, MILLER, ANDERSON & SHERRERD, LLP
 
     Mr. Miller was elected a director in 1984. In 1995, he retired as a limited
partner of the investment management firm of Miller, Anderson & Sherrerd, LLP.
He was a general partner of Miller, Anderson & Sherrerd, LLP from 1969 to 1991
and a limited partner of that firm from 1991 to 1995. Mr. Miller is a director
of The Mead Corporation and Rohm and Haas Company. He also serves as a trustee
of the University of Pennsylvania, a member of the Board of Overseers of the
Wharton School, a trustee of the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation and director
of the World Wildlife Fund.
 
     The names of the executive officers of the Company, and their ages, titles
and biographies as of December 26, 1997, are set forth below. All officers are
elected for one-year terms.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS:
 
EDWARD W. BARNHOLT; AGE 54; EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER, TEST
AND MEASUREMENT ORGANIZATION.
 
     Mr. Barnholt was elected an Executive Vice President in 1996 and a Senior
Vice President in 1993. He became Vice President and General Manager, Test and
Measurement Organization, with responsibility for the Company's Electronic
Instrument, Automatic Test, Microwave and Communications and Communications Test
Solutions Groups in 1990. Mr. Barnholt was elected a Vice President of the
Company in 1988. He is a director of KLA-Tencor Corporation.
 
RICHARD E. BELLUZZO; AGE 44; EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER,
COMPUTER ORGANIZATION.
 
     Mr. Belluzzo assumed management responsibility for the Computer
Organization and was elected an Executive Vice President in 1995. He was General
Manager of the Computer Products Organization from 1993 to August 1995, and he
served as General Manager of the InkJet Products Group from 1991 to 1993. He was
elected a Vice President in 1992 and a Senior Vice President in January 1995. He
is a director of Specialty Laboratories and Proxima Corporation. Mr. Belluzzo
resigned from his current position effective January 23, 1998.
 
JOEL S. BIRNBAUM; AGE 60; SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
DIRECTOR, HP LABORATORIES.
 
     Dr. Birnbaum was elected a Senior Vice President in 1993. He became Vice
President, Research and Development and Director, HP Laboratories in September
1991. Additionally, he served as General Manager, Information Architecture Group
from 1988 until 1991. He was elected a Vice President in 1984. He is a director
of the Corporation for National Research Initiatives and the Monterey Bay
Aquarium Research Institute.
 
SUSAN D. BOWICK; AGE 49; VICE PRESIDENT, HUMAN RESOURCES.
 
     Ms. Bowick was appointed a Vice President in 1997. She previously held
positions as Business Personnel Manager for the Computer Organization in 1995
and Personnel Manager for the San Diego Site in 1993.
 

 
S.T. JACK BRIGHAM III; AGE 58; SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE AFFAIRS AND
GENERAL COUNSEL.
 
     Mr. Brigham was elected a Senior Vice President in 1995 and a Vice
President in 1982. He became Vice President, Corporate Affairs in 1992. He has
served as General Counsel since 1976.
 
DOUGLAS K. CARNAHAN; AGE 56; SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND GENERAL MANAGER,
MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS ORGANIZATION.
 
     Mr. Carnahan was elected a Senior Vice President in 1995 and has been in
his current position since 1993. He was General Manager of the Printing Systems
Group from 1991 to 1993, and he was elected a Vice President in 1992.
 
RAYMOND W. COOKINGHAM; AGE 54; VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER.
 
     Mr. Cookingham was elected a Vice President in 1993. He has served as
Controller since 1986.
 
LEWIS E. PLATT; AGE 56; CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER, AND CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
 
     Mr. Platt has served as a director of the Company, President and Chief
Executive Officer since November 1992 and has served as Chairman since September
1993. He was an Executive Vice President from 1987 to 1992. Mr. Platt held a
number of management positions in the Company prior to becoming its President,
including managing the Computer Systems Organization from 1990 to 1992. He also
serves on the Wharton School Board of Overseers and the Cornell University
Council.
 
LEE S. TING; AGE 55; VICE PRESIDENT AND MANAGING DIRECTOR, GEOGRAPHIC
OPERATIONS.
 
     Mr. Ting assumed his current position as Vice President and Managing
Director, Geographic Operations on November 1, 1996. He had been Managing
Director of the Company's Asia Pacific region since 1993 and a Vice President
since 1995. He was Managing Director of Northeast Asia Operations from 1991 to
1993.
 
ROBERT P. WAYMAN; AGE 52; EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION
AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER.
 
     Mr. Wayman has served as a director of the Company since December 1993. He
has been an Executive Vice President responsible for finance and administration
since 1992. He has held a number of financial management positions in the
Company and was elected a Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1984. He
is a director of CNF Transportation, Inc. and Sybase Inc. He also serves as a
member of the Kellogg Advisory Board to Northwestern University School of
Business, and is Chairman of the Private Sector Council.
 
     Information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 is set forth on page 9 of the Notice and Proxy Statement,
which page is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     Information regarding the Company's compensation of its named executive
officers is set forth on pages 10-13 of the Notice and Proxy Statement, which
pages are incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding the Company's
compensation of its directors is set forth on pages 2-3 and 22 of the Notice and
Proxy Statement, which pages are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is set forth on pages 6-9 of the Notice and Proxy Statement, which
pages are incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     Not applicable.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:
 
      1. Financial Statements:
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Incorporated by reference from the indicated pages of the Company's 1997
Annual Report to Shareholders (excluding "Statement of Management
Responsibility" on page 54).
 
      2. Financial Statement Schedules:
 
         None.
 
      3. Exhibits:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
- ---------------
 
* Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.
 
     Exhibit numbers may not correspond in all cases to those numbers in Item
601 of Regulation S-K because of special requirements applicable to EDGAR
filers.
 
     (b) Reports on Form 8-K
 
     On October 9, 1997, the Registrant filed a report on Form 8-K, which
reported under Item 5 the Registrant's offering of up to $2 billion (principal
amount at maturity) of 20-year convertible zero-coupon subordinated notes due
2017, including a $200 million face amount over-allotment option.
 
     The issue was placed pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of
1933. Neither the notes nor the shares of HP common stock that may be issued
upon conversion of the notes have been registered under the Securities Act and
may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an
applicable exemption from registration requirements.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 27, 1998
 
                                          HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
 
                                          By:     /s/ D. CRAIG NORDLUND
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                     D. Craig Nordlund
                                               Associate General Counsel and
                                                          Secretary
 
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
     Know All Persons By These Presents, that each person whose signature
appears below constitutes and appoints D. Craig Nordlund and Ann O. Baskins, or
either of them, his or her attorneys-in-fact, for such person in any and all
capacities, to sign any amendments to this report and to file the same, with
exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
either of said attorneys-in-fact, or substitute or substitutes, may do or cause
to be done by virtue hereof.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 

 

 

 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 

 

 

 

 
- ---------------
 
* Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.
 

