Item 1.Business

General



We are a leading developer, manufacturer and provider of data storage solutions that enable consumers, businesses, governments and other organizations to create, manage, experience and preserve digital content. Our product portfolio includes hard disk drives (“HDDs”) and solid-state drives ("SSDs"). HDDs are our principal products and are today’s primary storage medium for digital content, with the use of solid-state storage products growing rapidly. Our products are marketed under the HGST, WD and G-Technology brand names.  Over the last 10 years, we have achieved strong financial results, including consistently strong cash flow generation.



We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on important long-term growth trends in the rapidly changing storage industry - the ongoing expansion in digital content and the growth in the amount of that content being stored. These trends are linked directly to consumers’ and commercial enterprises’ increasingly ubiquitous experience with data and the increasing value of that data. The confluence of data growth and the ability to expand the extraction of value from data is driving the need for the long-term retention of as much data as possible for legal and regulatory purposes and for potential future refinements in a wide range of fields. We believe the ways in which people and organizations are creating and using data are changing and that the amount of data considered useful to store is expanding. We also believe we are strongly positioned to play a role in the continuation of these trends as an enabler of the creation and storage of additional data.  With a focus on innovation and value creation, our goal is to grow through continued strong execution and with targeted investments in datacenter infrastructure, mobility and the cloud.

Due to regulatory requirements, we operate our global business through two independent subsidiaries - HGST and WD, both long-time innovators in the storage industry. In March 2014, we submitted an application to the Ministry of Commerce of the People’s Republic of China (“MOFCOM”) to lift the condition it imposed on our Company to operate these businesses separately.  At this time, we are awaiting MOFCOM’s response to our application.

Our headquarters are located in Irvine, California. WDC was founded in 1970 as a specialized semiconductor manufacturer and since entering the hard drive industry in 1988, its WD subsidiary has been a technology standard-setter in the industry’s highest volume markets.  HGST, a provider of high-value storage in enterprise markets, was acquired by WDC in March 2012. HGST was founded in 2003 through the combination of the HDD businesses of International Business Machines Corporation, the inventor of the HDD, and Hitachi, Ltd. (“Hitachi”). As of June 27, 2014, WDC had approximately 9,400 engineers and one of the industry’s largest patent portfolios with more than 7,000 active patents worldwide.



HGST and WD have relationships with the full range of customers currently addressing storage opportunities. These include storage subsystem suppliers, major server original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), Internet and social media infrastructure players, and personal computer (“PC”) and Mac™ OEMs. Through HGST and WD, we sell our products to OEMs, distributors, resellers, cloud infrastructure players, and consumers.  We have a strong consumer brand heritage with our WD and G-Technology branded products businesses.

The storage market in which we operate is rapidly changing and evolving. To address these dynamics, we regularly review opportunities to apply our knowledge of data storage technology to markets that we do not currently serve or in markets where we seek to broaden our participation and augment our resources and capabilities. We have taken actions to strengthen our enterprise SSD business with the acquisitions of sTec, Inc. (“sTec”), VeloBit, Inc. ("VeloBit") and Virident Systems, Inc. ("Virident"), and our strategic investments in Skyera, Inc., a provider of enterprise solid-state storage systems, Tegile Systems, Inc., a provider of hybrid storage arrays, and Avere Systems, a supplier of enterprise storage for the hybrid cloud. In making these investments, we seek to develop strategic relationships with technology innovators in the broader storage market to enable our customers to develop highly optimized storage solutions that meet their changing data management needs. We believe we have the technology building blocks to increase our overall market participation and be a full-line data storage solutions supplier. Consistent with our measured and deliberate approach to new market entries in the past, our approach to additional new markets will be based on a careful assessment of the risks, rewards, requirements and profit potential of such actions.











Industry

The growth and changes in the global market for digital content storage solutions are being driven by several factors including:

•Proliferation of data. The proliferation of consumer electronics, computing devices, social media and cloud-related infrastructure is driving rapid growth in the creation, sharing and retention of high definition video, high resolution images, e-mail and big data files.

•Evolution in data access and distribution.Increasing demand for data access and distribution anytime and anywhere, facilitated by rapidly improving network accessibility, big data analytics and higher bandwidth, is powering a dramatic increase in the need for data storage at both the local level and at the off-site, network-accessed or “cloud” levels.

•Advancements in storage devices. Technological improvements in the capacity, size, performance, connectivity and power requirements of storage devices continue to meet the demand for higher density and higher performance storage in increasingly diverse applications.

•Growth in consumers’ useof mobile computing and storage and use of digital content in the home and small office.

•Adoption of tiered storage architectures. With the significant increase in data storage demand, enterprises and cloud infrastructure players have adopted tiered storage architectures to improve storage performance and manage the costs of this growth. Tiered storage architectures optimize data storage to the most appropriate storage device, driving increasing demand for high capacity and high performance HDDs and flash-based solid-state storage.

•The development of advanced storage solutionsthat bypass tiered architectures while delivering the same benefits.

We are a market and customer driven company, focused on growth, innovation and value creation for our customers, employees and shareholders. We develop deep and collaborative relationships with customers aimed at making them more successful, an approach that is being manifested in our role as a trusted advisor and market maker in our served markets. We believe this approach is one of the key factors that will help us continue to achieve strong financial performance. We believe our platform is broad-based and powerful, with growth drivers and unique competitive advantages that will continue to provide us the opportunity to expand our value-creation model within an evolving, changing and growing storage market.

The ability to store large amounts of data is an ongoing enabler of the large amount of digital content being created and utilized. We believe the growth in the number of computing users and connected mobile devices in the world continues unabated, creating more usage and more digital content to be stored. Cloud computing applications are especially noteworthy given that they create multiple copies of photos, videos and other content to ensure efficient distribution and security. We believe unit volumes in the HDD industry were up 3% in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013, reflecting strength in gaming and the HDD enterprise markets. In addition, we believe unit volumes in the SSD industry were up 24% in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013, reflecting strength in SSD enterprise markets.

Enterprise

Enterprise storage devices consist of performance and capacity HDDs, and SSDs. All of these devices are used in multiple types of enterprise datacenters that provide storage for a range of cloud and corporate applications. Within datacenters, these drives are typically used in servers and storage systems.

Performance applications are essential to the operations of an enterprise and require the greatest capabilities and reliability in HDDs and SSDs. These drives are the most highly engineered product line in the storage industry. The infrastructure to support cloud computing storage is driving the demand for multi-platter high capacity HDDs and enterprise class SSDs in tiered architectures. Cloud computing delivers shared resources, software and information to users on demand on a multitude of devices, such as client PCs, tablets and smart phones. Most cloud computing models consist of services delivered through large datacenters with enterprise-class servers, utilizing tiered architectures to address multiple levels of storage needs. We believe we have established a leading position in supplying advanced multi-platter high capacity HDDs and SSDs to address these needs.

We believe shipments into the enterprise market of the storage industry were up 12% in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013. We believe that high capacity HDDs, performance HDDs and SSDs represented 46%, 45% and 9% of the industry unit shipments into enterprise systems in fiscal 2014, respectively. Future growth in the enterprise segment is expected to occur based on public and private cloud-related projects to address the continued growth in data being created and the demand to store much of that data.











Client: Desktop and Notebook PCs

Client storage devices consist of internal HDDs and SSDs for desktop and mobile PCs.  Desktop PCs are intended for regular use at single locations in homes and businesses, as well as in multi-user educational and government networks. Mobile PCs, primarily notebook computers, are used both in and away from homes and businesses. We believe that the demand for client computer HDDs and SSDs will continue primarily due to demand in emerging countries, corporate and consumer refreshes, the proliferation of digital content and changing requirements for increasing performance and thinner and lighter devices with lower power consumption.



Mobile HDDs for notebook PCs, have traditionally been in a 2.5-inch form factor with a 9.5 mm height. We believe we have led a trend toward thinner, lighter devices with extended battery life and low power consumption with our family of 7 mm height drives and more recently with our 5 mm height drives. Mobile hybrid drives have not yet attracted widespread adoption due to the challenges of managing the overall cost of PC systems, including new features such as touch screens and sleek designs.

We believe the PC market, which includes notebook and desktop PCs and comprises the client market, was down 5% in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013 due to the diversification of the digital content storage market. While the PC market remains the storage industry’s largest unit volume market, it has been declining in recent years while other markets such as cloud, traditional enterprise, branded products, gaming and other solutions have been expanding. Although still in decline, we saw a reduction in the rate of decline in PCs over the last several quarters of fiscal 2014 and we believe the rate of decline in the PC market has moderated.



We believe industry unit shipments of mobile HDDs into the client space decreased 7% in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013, while unit shipments of desktop HDDs increased 2% in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013. We believe industry unit shipments of SSDs into client compute systems increased 20% in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013, while unit shipments of SSDs in PCs increased 40% in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013.

Branded Products

External storage devices supplement the storage space on PC systems for home and small office networks and, through wireless connections, the fastest growing category in this market, provide remote access to personal content. These drives, when directly attached to PCs, are ideally suited to back up the data already stored on PC internal drives because of their portability and security features. The growing availability of wireless connectivity is spurring growth of external networked attached storage solutions such as our family of WD My CloudTMproducts. We believe HDD shipments into the external storage market increased 2% in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013. Branded products also include media players that connect to a user’s television or home theater system and play digital movies, music and photos from an integrated HDD, Universal Serial Bus (“USB”) mass storage device or content services accessed over the Internet.

Consumer Electronics

HDDs for consumer electronics ("CE") products are primarily used in digital video recorders (“DVRs”), game consoles and security video recording systems. We believe demand for greater storage capacity in these applications will continue to drive growth for higher capacity HDDs.



DVRs offer greater consumer viewing flexibility and enhanced capabilities such as pausing live television, simplifying the process of recording and cataloging recorded television programs and quickly forwarding or returning to any section of a recorded television program. Game consoles enable users to save games, movies, music, pictures and other user generated content.  Security surveillance hard drives provide 24/7 reliability and peace of mind for the installation of home or small to medium sized business (“SMB”) security systems. We believe HDD unit shipments into the CE market increased 35% in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013. This increase was due in part to a refresh cycle by the world’s two largest game console makers, who introduced new models in fiscal 2014, both of which feature HDDs as standard equipment.

Competition

We compete with manufacturers of HDDs for client compute, client non-compute and enterprise applications and manufacturers of SSDs. The HDD market consists of five principal brands: HGST, Samsung, Seagate, Toshiba and WD. In solid-state products, we compete with a wide range of manufacturers, from small startup companies to multinational corporations, including Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., SanDisk Corporation, Seagate Technology LLC and Toshiba Corporation.













Business Strategy

Our business strategy is to be an industry-leading developer, manufacturer and provider of innovative storage solutions that enable people to create, manage, experience and preserve digital content. We strive to achieve our business strategy through the following elements:

•relentless focus on operational excellence in all aspects of our business;

•providing a full portfolio of compelling, high quality storage products with effective technology deployment, high efficiency, flexibility and speed;

•developing collaborative engineering relationships with customers that create value by solving their data management needs through innovative solutions; and

•strategically aligning our investments in profitable and growing markets such as mobility, solid-state and cloud computing.

We believe our strategy provides the following benefits, which distinguish us in the dynamic and competitive storage industry:

•enables continued diversification of our storage product portfolio and entry into additional growing adjacent markets;

•allows us to achieve consistent financial performance, including strong returns on invested capital and cash generation, thereby enabling efficient allocation of capital to shareholders and strategic investments in innovation; and

•creates compelling value for our customers and makes them more successful, while providing growth opportunities for our suppliers, employees, and shareholders.

Products and Solutions

We offer a broad line of storage products and solutions to meet the evolving storage needs of our end users. Our HGST subsidiary delivers the following: high performance 10,000/15,000 revolutions per minute (“RPM”) drives targeting server and storage system OEMs, enterprise capacity drives for bulk storage applications for both hyperscale cloud customers and OEMs, helium sealed 6 terabyte ("TB") products that improve capacity and other dimensions of total cost of ownership, mobile drives for the notebook, PC and gaming markets, and a G-Technology line of branded products for professional audiovisual users. In addition, HGST delivers a line of SSDs for the high end of the performance market that includes 2.5”  Serial Attached SCSI (Small Computer System Interface) (“SAS”) drives as well as Peripheral Component Interconnect Express (“PCIe”) SSDs for the server market and embedded flash solutions. Our WD subsidiary designs, manufacturers and provides hard drives for a wide range of digital storage uses, from PCs and data centers to home video recorders and home network storage devices. WD also packages these hard drives into consumer appliances, which offer portable, desktop and personal cloud storage for accessibility from anywhere and sharing functionality, as well as provide media playing devices to simplify enjoyment of personal content on televisions.

Enterprise Storage Solutions.Enterprise storage products consist of HDDs and SSDs for performance enterprise and capacity enterprise markets. Our enterprise storage solutions include performance drives which are optimized for performance applications. Within performance drives, we offer large form factor drives which provide high capacity storage, primarily for data storage systems, and small form factor drives which provide a range of capacity and performance levels primarily for use in enterprise servers, supporting high volume on-line transactions, data analysis and other enterprise applications. Our enterprise storage solutions also include capacity drives which provide enterprise class reliability at the lowest cost per GB and









are primarily for use in data storage systems, in tiered storage models and where data must be stored reliably for years. Lastly, our enterprise storage solutions include solid-state solutions which feature fast read/write speeds in high capacities.

In fiscal 2014, our HGST subsidiary began shipping a new helium-filled HDD, which is at the forefront of advanced technology for increasing capacity and significantly reducing total cost of ownership for enterprise and cloud customers. This new drive allows HGST to design seven-platter drives in a standard 3.5-inch form factor at a 6TB capacity that delivers superior total cost of ownership at the data center level by allowing significant improvements in capacity, power, cooling and storage density. Our hard drive enterprise unit shipments were 30 million, 28 million and 16 million for2014,2013and2012, respectively.

Through a joint development agreement with Intel Corporation to make enterprise class SAS drives and the calendar 2013 acquisitions of sTec, Virident and Velobit, our HGST subsidiary has strengthened its position in the fast growing market for enterprise class SSDs. We now offer a broad range of SSDs for the enterprise market based on the SAS, PCIe and Serial Advanced Technology Attachment ("SATA") interfaces.

Client: Desktop and Notebook PCs.Client compute solutions consist of HDDs for desktop and mobile PCs. Our client compute storage solutions include HDDs designed for use in desktop PCs requiring high performance, reliability and capacity with various attributes such as low cost per gigabyte ("GB"), quiet acoustics, low power consumption and protection against shocks. In addition, we provide HDDs designed for use in mobile PCs and requiring high performance, reliability and capacity with various ranges of performance and attributes such as low power consumption for extended battery life and cooler operation, quiet acoustics and protection against shocks.

Our newest HDDs for mobile PCs are low-profile to address the thin and light notebook PC market, and include ultra-slim 2.5-inch HDDs.

We also offer SATA HDDs specifically designed for home and small office network attached storage systems and optimized for energy efficiency and reliability, as well as HDDs designed for advanced single-user computing systems such as professional systems for video editing and CAD/CAM (computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing) applications and high-end desktop PC applications including gaming, which require high performance and high reliability. Our hard drive client compute unit shipments were 157 million, 162 million and 150 million for2014,2013and2012, respectively.

Branded Product Solutions.Our branded product solutions consist of HDDs embedded into WD®-, HGST- and G-Technology-branded external storage appliances with capacities ranging from 500 GB to 24 TB and using interfaces such as USB 2.0, USB 3.0, external SATA, FireWireTM, ThunderboltTMand Ethernet network connections. Within branded products, we offer HDDs that provide high quality, reliable storage for backup and capacity expansion in both mobile and desktop form factors that are designed to keep digital content secure while providing portable storage for desktops and notebooks. In addition, within branded products we offer solutions for SMBs, by offering complete network storage solutions designed to meet the needs of SMBs by providing centralized storage, backup, data protection and remote file access. We also provide external hard drives that connect to home or office networks, enabling consumers access from anywhere with an Internet connection and from smart phones, tablets and PCs via WD mobile apps and desktop software. These My CloudTMsolutions offer the same functionality as public cloud storage services, yet offer consumers the peace of mind that ownership brings lower cost and greater capacity. Certain branded product solutions-such as our new My CloudTMproducts include software that assists customers with backup, remote access and management of digital content.

Lastly, our home entertainment solutions include media players which connect to a user’s television or home theater system and play digital movies, music and photos from an integrated HDD, network HDDs, any of our WD®-branded external HDDs, other USB mass storage devices or content services accessed over the Internet. Our branded product hard drive unit shipments were 25 million, 25 million and 18 million for2014,2013and2012, respectively.

Consumer Electronics Solutions.CE solutions are used in DVRs, gaming consoles, security surveillance, systems, set top boxes, camcorders, multi-function printers and entertainment and automobile navigation systems. Our CE solutions include HDDs designed and optimized for video streaming and continuous digital video recording. These HDDs deliver quiet operation, low operating temperature, low power consumption, high reliability and optimized streaming capabilities. Our consumer electronics unit shipments were 37 million, 28 million and 17 million for2014,2013and2012, respectively.

Technology

Hard Disk Drives

HDDs provide non-volatile data storage, which means that the data remains present when power is no longer applied to the device. The primary measures of hard drive performance include:

•Acoustics — sound power emitted during hard drive operation, commonly expressed in decibels, and perceived loudness due to sound pressure, commonly expressed in sones;









•Data transfer rate — sustained rate of data transfer to and from the disk, commonly expressed in gigabits per second;

•Power consumption — which is the amount of electricity required to operate the drive, measured in watts;

•Seek time — time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface, commonly expressed in milliseconds;

•Spindle rotation speed — nominal rotation speed of the disks inside the hard drive, commonly expressed in RPM or latency. Spindle rotation speeds commonly stated as 5,400, 7,200, 10,000 and 15,000 RPM are sometimes approximations; and

•Storage capacity — which is the amount of data that can be stored on the hard drive, commonly expressed in GB or TB.

The storage capacity of a hard drive is determined by the number of disks and each disk’s areal density (track density multiplied by bit density), which is a measure of the amount of data that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk per unit area. Head and magnetic media technologies are two of the key technology components of hard drives affecting areal density. We develop and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media used in our hard drive products. As areal density increases, achieving a given drive capacity potentially reduces product costs over time through reduced component requirements. We also invest considerable resources in research and development, manufacturing infrastructure and capital equipment of head and magnetic media components in order to secure our competitive position and cost structure.

Industry-standard interfaces allow the drives to communicate with the host system. The primary interface for PCs is SATA and the primary interfaces for enterprise systems are Fibre Channel, SAS, SATA and PCIe.

Solid-State Drives

SSDs use semiconductor, non-volatile media, rather than magnetic media and magnetic heads, to store and allow fast access to data without any moving parts. The cost per bit of solid-state drives is more expensive than hard drives, but the higher input/output (“IO”) performance makes solid-state drives an attractive new tier of storage that fits between DRAM memory and hard drives. Solid-state drives are finding growing usage in enterprise storage systems and servers in applications that demand the highest IO performance.

The non-volatile memory in use today for solid-state drives is NAND flash technology. While Single Level Cell Flash provides the highest endurance and performance, the optimal balance of price and performance is usually achieved through the use of Multi-Level Cell Flash. Multiple NAND Flash die are used on a single PCBA and connected in parallel through a controller to the host bus. Various performance classes of solid-state drives are created by varying the number of parallel NAND channels and the speed of controller logic and firmware. The controller contains hardware logic and firmware to buffer the data flow to and from the host, to the NAND Flash, and to manage the reliability and performance of the NAND Flash media.

The typical host interfaces for SSDs include PCIe, SAS and SATA. PCIe products typically offer the highest performance and come on edge cards that plug into the PCIe bus. PCIe defines the hardware and electrical interface but the software protocols are still proprietary today. New standards such as NVMe and SCSI express are emerging to bring more standardized software protocols for communicating with PCIe solid-state drives. SAS and SATA products utilize standardized interfaces similar to hard drives and come in 2.5-inch form factors with differing package heights depending on the application and usage. The typical power consumption for the SAS and SATA interfaces is similar to hard drives, while the power consumption of PCIe form factor devices is typically higher.

Our products generally leverage a common platform for various products within product families, and in some cases across product families, resulting in the commonality of components which reduces our exposure to changes in demand, facilitates inventory management and allows us to achieve lower costs through purchasing economies. This platform strategy also enables our customers to leverage their qualification efforts onto successive product models. For a discussion of associated risks, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.









Research and Development



We devote substantial resources to the development of new products and the improvement of existing products. We focus our engineering efforts on coordinating our product design and manufacturing processes to bring our products to market in a cost-effective and timely manner. Research and development expenses totaled$1.7 billion,$1.6 billionand$1.1 billionin2014,2013and2012, respectively. For a discussion of associated risks, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Information



We have more than 7,000 active patents and have many patent applications in process. We believe that although our active patents and patent applications have considerable value, the successful manufacturing and marketing of our products depends primarily upon the technical and managerial competence of our staff. Accordingly, the patents held and applied for do not ensure our future success.

In addition to patent protection of certain intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that our non-patented intellectual property, particularly some of our process technology, is an important factor in our success. We rely upon non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. Despite these safeguards, there is a risk that competitors may obtain and use such information. The laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business may provide less protection for confidential information than the U.S.

We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties to manufacture and sell our products. We believe that we have adequate cross-licenses and other agreements in place in addition to our own intellectual property portfolio to compete successfully in the storage industry. For a discussion of associated risks, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Manufacturing

We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product manufacturing processes, test and tooling, execution skills and human resources to continue to be successful and to grow, as necessary, our manufacturing operations. We strive to maintain manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing yields, reliable products, and high-quality components. The critical elements of our HDD production are high volume and utilization, low cost assembly and testing, strict adherence to quality metrics and maintaining close relationships with our strategic component suppliers to access best-in-class technology and manufacturing capacity.

HDD manufacturing is a complex process involving the production and assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and thorough testing. The assembly process occurs in a “clean room” environment that demands skill in process engineering and efficient space utilization to control the operating costs of this manufacturing environment. Our clean room manufacturing process consists of modular production units, each of which contains a number of work cells. We continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort to increase productivity, sustain and improve quality and decrease manufacturing costs. We continually evaluate which steps in the manufacturing process would benefit from automation and how automated manufacturing processes can improve productivity and reduce manufacturing costs. For our non- HDD products, we leverage the efficiencies of contract manufacturers when strategically advantageous. For a discussion of associated risks, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Materials and Supplies

The main components of the hard drive are a Head-Disk-Assembly (“HDA”) and a Printed Circuit Board Assembly (“PCBA”).

The HDA includes heads, magnetic media, head positioning mechanism (“actuator”) and spindle motor. A rigid base and top cover contain these components in a contamination-controlled environment. One or more disks positioned around a motor-driven spindle hub that rotates the disks comprise the disk-pack assembly. The disk is made up of a smooth substrate on which thin layers of magnetic materials are deposited. The head stack assembly (“HSA”) is comprised of a magnetic positioner and a pivot-arm module on which the head gimbal assemblies ("HGAs"), including suspension, are mounted. Each disk surface has a head suspended directly above it, which can read data from or write data to the spinning disk. Other key components of our hard drives are pre-amps and voice coil magnets.

The PCBA includes both standard and custom integrated circuits, an interface connector to the host computer and a power connector. The integrated circuits on the printed circuit board typically include a power device that controls the motor and HSA positioner, and a System-on-Chip (“SoC”) comprised of a drive interface, controller and recording channel. The drive interface









receives instructions from the host computer, while the controller directs the flow of data to or from the disks and controls the heads. The location of data on each disk is logically maintained in concentric tracks divided into sectors. The host computer sends instructions to the controller to read data from or write data to the disks, based on logical track and sector locations. Guided by instructions from the controller, the HSA pivots in an arc across the disk until it reaches the selected track of a disk, where the data is recorded or retrieved.



We design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media required for our products. Consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head and magnetic media technologies developed by other manufacturers. We depend on an external supply base for all remaining components and materials for use in our HDD product design and manufacturing.



The key components used in the manufacture of our SSDs are the NAND semiconductor media and SoC which are acquired from third party suppliers. The NAND flash products used in our SSDs are sourced from multiple tier-one NAND manufacturers. We have established deep relationships with these vendors to assure continuous supply of NAND, as well as sufficient technical depth of technology access to enable continuous cost and technology leadership of our SSD product portfolio offering. Additionally, we are exploring strategic options to further strengthen and deepen our collaboration with select NAND partners to support the future growth of our SSD business. Additionally, the key component in our media players, the controller, is acquired from third party suppliers.

We believe that our sourcing strategy currently enables us to have the business flexibility needed to select the highest quality, low cost of ownership suppliers as product designs and technologies evolve. We generally retain multiple suppliers for each of our component requirements but in some instances use sole sources for business reasons. Currently, we believe that there are no major issues with component availability. For a discussion of associated risks, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Sales and Distribution



We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world including the major geographies of the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. Our international sales, which include sales to foreign subsidiaries of United States (“U.S.”) companies but do not include sales to U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies, represented 80%, 78% and 81% of our net revenue for2014,2013and2012, respectively. Sales to international customers are subject to certain risks not normally encountered in domestic operations, including exposure to tariffs and various trade regulations. For a discussion regarding associated risks, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We perform our marketing and advertising functions internally and through outside firms utilizing both consumer media and trade publications targeting various reseller and end-user categories. We also maintain customer relationships through direct communication and providing information and support through our Web site. In accordance with standard storage industry practice, we provide distributors and retailers with limited price protection and programs under which we reimburse certain marketing expenditures. We also provide distributors, resellers and OEMs with other sales incentive programs.

Original Equipment Manufacturers.OEMs, including large-scale datacenter operators,purchase our products, either directly or through a contract manufacturer such as an original design manufacturer (“ODM”), and assemble them into the devices they build. OEMs typically seek to qualify two or more providers for each generation of products and generally will purchase products from those vendors for the life of that product. Many of our OEM customers utilize just-in-time inventory management processes. As a result, for certain OEMs we maintain a base stock of finished goods inventory in facilities located near or adjacent to the OEM’s operations. In addition, we also sell directly to cloud infrastructure players, which we classify as OEMs for purposes of channel information.

Distributors.We use a broad group of distributors to sell our products to non-direct customers such as small computer and CE manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators, online retailers and other resellers. Distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements with us for the purchase and redistribution of our products in specific territories.

Retailers.We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major retailers such as computer superstores, warehouse clubs, online retailers, and computer electronics stores, and authorize sales through distributors to smaller retailers. The retail channel complements our other sales channels while helping to build brand awareness for us and our products. We also sell our branded products through our Web sites.

For each of 2014 and 2012, sales to Hewlett Packard Company accounted for 11% of our net revenue. For 2013, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue. For a discussion of associated risks, refer to Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For additional information regarding revenue recognition, sales by geographic region and major









customers, see Part II, Item 8, Notes 1 and 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Backlog

A substantial portion of our orders are generally for shipments within 30 to 60 days of the placement of the order. Customers’ purchase orders typically may be canceled with relatively short notice to us, with little or no cost to the customer, or modified by customers to provide for delivery at a later date. In addition, for many of our OEMs utilizing just-in-time inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments and instead, receive a periodic forecast of requirements. Therefore, backlog information as of the end of a particular period is not necessarily indicative of future levels of our revenue and profit and may not be comparable to prior periods.

Seasonality



We have historically experienced seasonal fluctuations in our business with higher levels of demand in the first and second quarters of our fiscal year as a result of increased customer spending. Seasonality can also be impacted by the growth in emerging markets and macroeconomic conditions. For a discussion of associated risks, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Service and Warranty



We generally warrant our newly manufactured products against defects in materials and workmanship from one to five years from the date of manufacture depending on the type of product. Our warranty obligation is generally limited to repair or replacement. We have engaged third parties in various countries in multiple regions to provide various levels of testing, processing or recertification of returned products for our customers. For a further discussion of our service and warranty policy, see Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign laws and regulations in connection with our operations and relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution. These permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. We believe that we have obtained or are in the process of obtaining all necessary environmental permits for our operations.

We have established environmental management systems and continually update our environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. We budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws.

Our properties have in some cases been operated for many years and may contain soil or groundwater contamination. In certain of our facilities we are undertaking voluntary monitoring of soil and groundwater. Based on available information, including our voluntary monitoring activities, we do not believe that we have a current affirmative legal obligation for any remedial action.



For a discussion of associated risks, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

As ofJune 27, 2014, we employed a total of84,072employees worldwide, excluding temporary employees and contractors. Many of our employees are highly skilled, and our continued success depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain such employees. Accordingly, we offer employee benefit programs which we believe are, in the aggregate, competitive with those offered by our competitors.

While the substantial majority of our employees are not party to a collective bargaining agreement, a majority of our employees in Japan and employees of two of our manufacturing subsidiaries in China are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. While our third manufacturing subsidiary in China has its own labor union of which many of its direct employees are members, it has yet to begin collective bargaining negotiations. We consider our employee relations to be good. For a discussion of associated risks, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.









Available Information

We maintain an Internet Web site at www.westerndigital.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our Web site at www.westerndigital.com, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with, or furnishing of these reports to, the SEC. Any materials we file with the SEC are available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Additional information about the operation of the Public Reference Room can also be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a Web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including us.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Listed below are all of our executive officers, followed by a brief account of their business experience during the past five years. Executive officers are normally appointed annually by the Board of Directors at a meeting of the directors immediately following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. There are no family relationships among these officers nor any arrangements or understandings between any officer and any other person pursuant to which an officer was selected.



NameAgePositionStephen D. Milligan50President and Chief Executive OfficerJames J. Murphy55President, WD SubsidiaryMichael D. Cordano50President, HGST SubsidiaryTimothy M. Leyden62Chief Financial OfficerMark P. Long47Executive Vice President, Strategy & Corporate DevelopmentMichael C. Ray46Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary

Mr. Milligan, 50, re-joined us in March 2012 as President of WDC as a result of our acquisition of HGST and was appointed Chief Executive Officer effective January 2, 2013. He served as HGST’s President from March 2009 to December 2009 and as its President and Chief Executive Officer from December 2009 until our acquisition of HGST in March 2012. From September 2007 to October 2009, Mr. Milligan served as HGST’s Chief Financial Officer. From January 2004 to September 2007, Mr. Milligan served as Western Digital's Chief Financial Officer and from September 2002 to January 2004, Mr. Milligan served as Western Digital's Senior Vice President, Finance. From April 1997 to September 2002, Mr. Milligan held various financial and accounting roles of increasing responsibility at Dell Inc. (“Dell”). Prior to joining Dell, Mr. Milligan was employed at Price Waterhouse for 12 years, most recently as Senior Manager.



Mr. Murphy, 55, was appointed as President of the WD subsidiary on November 14, 2013. He previously served as our Executive Vice President, Storage Products and Worldwide Sales from December 2012 to November 2013.  Prior to that, he served as our Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales from August 2010 to December 2012, as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Sales Operations from 2007 to 2010, as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Operations from 2005 to 2007, and as Vice President, Asia Pacific from 2003 to 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Murphy served in various roles at Read-Rite Corporation, including as the Executive Vice President, Customer Business Units, prior to our acquisition of Read-Rite Corporation’s assets in 2003.

Mr. Cordano, 50, joined us on March 8, 2012 in connection with our acquisition of HGST. Mr. Cordano was appointed President of our HGST subsidiary on July 25, 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Cordano served as HGST’s Executive Vice President, Sales & Marketing, and President, Branded Business, since April 2009. From February 2005 to April 2009, Mr. Cordano served as Chief Executive Officer and co-founder of Fabrik, Inc., which was acquired by HGST in April 2009. From 1994 to February 2005, Mr. Cordano served in various roles of increasing responsibility at Maxtor Corporation, including as the Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing from April 2001 until February 2005, where he formed and managed the Branded Products Business Unit.

Mr. Leyden, 62, re-joined us in May 2007 and was appointed to the position of Chief Financial Officer of WDC in November 2013. Prior to his appointment as Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Leyden served as President of our WD subsidiary from 2012 to 2013, Chief Operating Officer from August 2010 to July 2012, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from September 2007 to August 2010, and Executive Vice President, Finance from May 2007 to September 2007. From December 2001 to May 2007, Mr. Leyden served in senior finance capacities at Sage Software Inc. and Sage Software of California, subsidiaries of Sage Group PLC, a U.K. public company that supplies accounting and business management software to small and medium-sized businesses, including as Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer from









December 2001 to May 2004 and as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer from May 2004 to May 2007. Mr. Leyden previously served in various worldwide finance, manufacturing and information technology capacities with us from 1983 to December 2000.



Mr. Long, 47, was appointed as our Executive Vice President, Strategy & Corporate Development, effective as of February 2013. Prior to that, from March 2012 to February 2013, he served in various consulting capacities for WDC. Prior to that, from July 2010 to March 2012, he served as senior vice president, strategy and corporate development at Hitachi GST, which was acquired by us in March 2012.  From August 2005 to July 2010, he served as managing director of VisionPoint Capital, where he provided merger and acquisition and corporate finance services to a range of technology companies, including Fabrik, Inc., which was acquired by Hitachi GST in April 2009.  Prior to that, Mr. Long served as a senior executive with both public and private venture-backed technology companies and was an investment banker with Credit Suisse First Boston and Deutsche Bank Securities. Among his duties as our Executive Vice President, Strategy & Corporate Development, Mr. Long also leads Western Digital Capital, our wholly owned strategic investment fund.

Mr. Ray, 46, was appointed as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary as of April 5, 2011.  From October 2010 to April 2011, Mr. Ray served as our Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.  From September 2000 to October 2010, Mr. Ray served in a number of positions in our legal department, ranging from Senior Counsel to Vice President, Legal Services.  From September 1998 to September 2000, Mr. Ray served as corporate counsel for Wynn’s International, Inc. Prior to that, he served as a judicial clerk to the U.S. District Court, Central District of California and practiced law at O’Melveny & Myers LLP.



