Item 1.Business

General

We are an industry-leading developer and manufacturer of storage
solutions that enable people to create, manage, experience and preserve digital content. We design and make storage devices and home entertainment products under the HGST, WD and G-Technology brands. Our principal products today are hard drives that
use one or more rotating magnetic disks (“magnetic media”) to store and allow fast access to data. Hard drives are today’s primary storage medium for digital content. Over the last 10 years, we have achieved consistent profitable
growth, with revenues up 19% and earnings per share up 16% on a compounded annual growth rate basis.

We believe we are well
positioned to capitalize on an important long-term secular growth trend — the ongoing expansion in digital data — which is linked directly to consumers’ and commercial enterprises’ increasingly ubiquitous experience with digital
data. We believe this growth will continue with total exabytes (“EB”) shipped growing from 600 EB in calendar 2012 to at least 5,900 EB by calendar 2020, representing a 34% compounded annual growth rate. We believe EB growth is the most
relevant measure of the growth potential for the industry and our company.

The growth in the global market for digital data
storage solutions is being driven by several factors including:



•Proliferation of data. The proliferation of consumer electronics, computing devices, social media and cloud-related infrastructure is driving
rapid growth in the creation, sharing and retention of high definition video, high resolution images, e-mail and big data files.



•Evolution in data access and distribution.Increasing demand for data access and distribution anytime and anywhere, facilitated by rapidly
improving network accessibility and higher bandwidth, is powering a dramatic increase in the need for data storage at both the local level and in the off-site, network-accessed or “cloud” level.



•Advancements in storage devices. Technological improvements in the capacity, size, performance, connectivity and power requirements of storage
devices continue to meet the demand for higher density and higher performance storage in increasingly diverse applications.



•Rapid growth in consumers’ useof mobile computing and storage and use of digital content in the home.



•Adoption of tiered storage architectures. With the significant increase in data storage demand, enterprises and Internet cloud providers have
adopted tiered storage architectures to improve storage performance and manage the costs of this growth. Tiered storage architecture optimizes data storage to the most appropriate storage device, driving increasing demand for high capacity and high
performance hard drives, as well as flash-based solid-state storage. Client PC providers are also adopting tiered storage with the deployment of dual drive configurations and solid-state hybrid drives.

We are a market and customer driven company, focused on growth, innovation and value creation for our customers, employees and
shareholders. We develop deep and collaborative relationships with customers, an approach that is being manifested in our role as a trusted advisor and market maker in all served markets. We believe this approach is one of the key factors that will
help us continue to achieve strong business performance. We believe our platform is powerful, with growth drivers and unique competitive advantages that will continue to provide us the opportunity to expand our value-creation model within an
evolving and growing storage market.

We operate our global business through two independent subsidiaries due to regulatory
requirements — HGST and WD, both long-time innovators in the storage industry. As of June 28, 2013, we had approximately 9,200 engineers and one of the industry’s largest patent portfolios with more than 6,000 active patents
worldwide.

Our headquarters are located in Irvine, California. WDC was founded in 1970 as a specialized semiconductor
manufacturer and since entering the storage industry in 1988, its WD subsidiary has been a technology standard-setter in the industry’s highest volume markets. HGST, known as Hitachi Global Storage Technologies Holdings Pte. Ltd. until shortly
before its acquisition by WDC (“the Acquisition”) in March 2012, was founded in 2003 through the combination of the hard drive businesses of International Business Machines Corporation, the inventor of the hard drive, and Hitachi, Ltd
(“Hitachi”). For a further description of our acquisition of HGST in March 2012, see Part II, Item 8, Note 14 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.







HGST and WD have relationships with a full range of customers currently addressing storage
opportunities. These include storage subsystem suppliers, Internet and social media infrastructure players, and personal computer (“PC”) and Mac™ providers. Through HGST and WD, we sell our products to original equipment manufacturers
(“OEMs”), distributors, resellers and consumers. WD has a strong brand and heritage with consumers with its WD Branded Products business; HGST enjoys the same with its G-Technology branded products.

We believe we are at the forefront of helping our customers meet the evolving storage needs of end users through
innovation and value creation. Examples of these efforts include our multi-platter high capacity drives and solid-state drives for the fast growing cloud computing storage market, our low-profile hard drives to address the emerging thin and light
UltrabookTMPC and tablet markets, and our Connected Life
innovations for the home and small-to-medium sized businesses (“SMBs”).

The storage market in which we operate is
rapidly changing and evolving. To address these dynamics, we regularly review opportunities to apply our knowledge of data storage technology to markets that we do not currently serve or in markets where we seek to broaden our participation and
augment our resources and capabilities. Examples include our recent actions to strengthen our solid state drive business with the pending acquisition of sTec, Inc. (“sTec”), our acquisition of Velobit, Inc. and our investment in Skyera,
Inc., as well as our acquisition of Arkeia Software Solutions, Inc. to strengthen our SMBs solutions in our branded products business.

Through our investments and acquisitions, we seek to develop strategic relationships with technology innovators in the broader storage market to enable our customers to develop highly optimized storage
solutions that meet their changing data management needs. We believe we have the technology building blocks to increase our overall market participation and be a full-line data storage solutions supplier. Consistent with our measured and deliberate
approach to new market entries in the recent past, our approach to additional new markets will be based on a careful assessment of the risks, rewards, requirements and profit potential of such actions.

Industry

Storage is
increasingly critical to the large amount of digital content being created and utilized. We believe the growth in the number of computing users and connected mobile devices in the world is unabated, creating more usage and more digital content to be
stored. Cloud computing applications are especially noteworthy given that they create multiple copies of photos, videos and other content to ensure efficient distribution and security. We believe unit volumes in the hard drive industry were down 9%
in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012, reflecting continued soft industry demand driven by macroeconomic uncertainty and weak PC demand.

Client: Desktop and Notebook PCs

The PC market, which includes notebook
and desktop PCs, comprises the client market and has declined in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012 due to weak global macroeconomic conditions and the popularity of tablet devices. We are encouraged by recent signs of innovation in the PC space, such as
new ultraportable PC designs that are thinner, lighter and faster than prior generation notebook PCs. This remains a significant market for us; however, our reliance on the PC market is declining, with cloud, traditional enterprise, branded and
other solutions accounting for 50% of our net revenue in fiscal 2013 as compared to 36% in fiscal 2012.

Client storage
devices consist of internal hard drives and solid-state drives for desktop and mobile PCs. We believe industry unit shipments of mobile hard drives into the client space declined 14% in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012, while volumes of desktop hard
drives declined 11% in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012.

Desktop PCs are intended for regular use at single locations in homes
and businesses, as well as in multi-user educational and government networks. Mobile PCs, primarily notebook computers, are used both in and away from homes and businesses. We believe that the demand for client computer hard drives and solid-state
drives will continue primarily due to demand in emerging countries, corporate refreshes, the proliferation of digital content and changing requirements for increasing performance and thinner and lighter devices with lower power consumption.







Mobile hard drives for notebook PCs, the industry’s highest volume market, have
traditionally been in a 2.5-inch form factor with a 9.5 mm height. We believe we have led a trend toward thinner, lighter devices with extended battery life and low power consumption, first with our family of 7 mm height drives and more recently
with our 5 mm height drives in both traditional hard drive and hybrid drive configurations. A solid-state hybrid drive is a form of a hard drive that incorporates NAND flash technology in the caching function. Solid-state hybrid drives specifically
designed for mobile computing combine the power and performance of solid-state drives with the capacity, affordability and availability attributes of hard drives.

Enterprise

We believe shipments into the enterprise market of the storage
industry remained relatively flat in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012. Enterprise storage devices consist of performance and capacity hard drives, as well as enterprise class solid-state drives. All of these devices are used in multiple types of
enterprise datacenters that provide storage for a range of cloud and corporate applications. Within datacenters, these drives are typically used in servers and storage systems.

Performance applications are essential to the operations of an enterprise and require the greatest capabilities and reliability in hard
drives and solid-state drives. This class of drives is the most highly engineered product line in the storage industry. The infrastructure to support cloud computing storage is driving the demand for multi-platter high capacity hard drives and
enterprise class solid-state drives in tiered architectures. Cloud computing delivers shared resources, software and information to users on demand on a multitude of devices, such as client PCs, tablets and smart phones. Most cloud computing models
consist of services delivered through large datacenters with enterprise-class servers, utilizing tiered architectures to address multiple levels of storage needs. We believe we have established a leading position in supplying advanced multi-platter
high capacity drives and solid-state drives with Serial Attached SCSI (Small Computer System Interface) (“SAS”) to address these needs.

We believe that capacity hard drives, performance hard drives and solid-state drives represented 49%, 46% and 5% of the industry unit shipments into enterprise systems in fiscal 2013, respectively.

Branded Products

External storage devices supplement the storage space of PC systems for home and small office networks and, through wireless connections, provide remote access to personal content. The highest volume
products include direct-attached and network-attached external drives. They are ideally suited to back up data on internal drives because of their portability and security features. We believe hard drive shipments into the external storage market
increased 42% in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012. Branded products also include media players that connect to a user’s television or home theater system and play digital movies, music and photos from an integrated hard drive, Universal Serial Bus
(“USB”) mass storage device or content services accessed over the Internet.

Consumer Electronics

Hard drives for CE products are primarily used in digital video recorders (“DVRs”), game consoles and security video recording
systems. We believe hard drive unit shipments into the CE market declined 22% in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012.

DVRs offer
greater consumer viewing flexibility and enhanced capabilities such as pausing live television, simplifying the process of recording and cataloging recorded television programs and quickly forwarding or returning to any section of a recorded
television program. Game consoles enable users to save games, movies, music, pictures and other user generated content. We believe growth in the CE market will continue to create demand for higher capacity hard drives.

Competition

We compete
with manufacturers of hard drives for client compute, client non-compute and enterprise applications and manufacturers of solid-state drives. Competition in the hard drive market consists of five principal brands: HGST, Samsung, Seagate, Toshiba and
WD. In solid-state products we compete with a wide range of manufacturers, from small startup companies to multinational corporations, including Fusion I-O, Inc., Intel Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., SanDisk
Corporation, Seagate Technology LLC and Toshiba Corporation.







Business Strategy

Our
focused business strategy is to be an industry-leading developer and manufacturer of innovative storage solutions that enable people to create, manage, experience and preserve digital content. We strive to achieve our business strategy through the
following elements:



•relentless focus on operational excellence in all aspects of our business;



•providing a full portfolio of compelling, high quality storage products with effective technology deployment, high efficiency, flexibility and speed;



•developing collaborative engineering relationships with customers that create value by solving their data management needs through innovative
solutions; and



•strategically aligning our investments in profitable and growing markets such as mobility, solid-state and cloud computing.

We believe our strategy provides the following benefits:



•continued diversification of our storage product portfolio away from our historical reliance on PCs and entry into additional growing adjacent markets;



•distinguishes us in the dynamic and competitive storage industry;



•allows us to achieve consistent financial performance, including strong returns on invested capital and cash generation, thereby enabling efficient
allocation of capital to shareholders and strategic investments in innovation; and



•creates compelling value for our customers and growth opportunities for our suppliers, employees, and shareholders.

Products and Solutions

We offer a broad line of storage products and solutions to meet the evolving storage needs of our end users. Our hard drives currently include 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch form factors, capacities ranging from
30 gigabytes (“GB”) to 4 terabytes (“TB”), nominal rotation speeds up to 15,000 revolutions per minute (“RPM”), and interfaces such as Fibre Channel, Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (“SATA”) and SAS. Our
solid-state drives currently include 2.5-inch, mSATA, MO-297 and CompactFlash form factors, capacities ranging from 128 MB to 400 GB, and interfaces such as SAS, SATA and Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment (“PATA”). We also provide in
the mobile computing market of smart phones and tablets with standalone WD software applications such as WD
PhotosTMand WD 2GO®for iOS, Android and Windows Phone platforms.

Client: Desktop and Notebook PCs.Client compute solutions consist of hard drives and solid-state hybrid drives for desktop and
mobile PCs. Our client compute storage solutions include hard drives designed for use in desktop PCs requiring high performance, reliability and capacity with various attributes such as low cost per GB, quiet acoustics, low power consumption and
protection against shocks. In addition, we provide hard drives designed for use in mobile PCs and requiring high performance, reliability and capacity with various ranges of performance and attributes such as low power consumption for extended
battery life and cooler operation, quiet acoustics and protection against shocks.







Our newest hard drives for mobile PCs are low-profile to address the
emerging thin and light UltrabookTMPC and tablet markets,
including ultra-slim 2.5-inch hard drives and solid-state hybrid drives. These drives offer 500 GB of storage capacity and high performance-enabling solid-state hybrid drive technology, thereby allowing consumers the ability to maximize storage
capacity and volumetric efficiency, as well as performance and system responsiveness.

We also offer SATA hard drives
specifically designed for home and small office network attached storage systems and optimized for energy efficiency and reliability, as well as hard drives designed for advanced single-user computing systems such as professional systems for video
editing and CAD/CAM (computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing) applications and high-end desktop PC applications including gaming, which require high performance and high reliability. Our hard drive client compute unit shipments were
162 million, 150 million and 151 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Enterprise Storage
Solutions.Enterprise storage products consist of hard drives and solid-state drives for performance enterprise and capacity enterprise markets. Our enterprise storage solutions include performance drives which are optimized for performance
applications. Within performance drives, we offer large form factor drives which provide high capacity storage, primarily for data storage systems, and small form factor drives which provide a range of capacity and performance levels primarily for
use in enterprise servers, supporting high volume on-line transactions, data analysis and other enterprise applications. Our enterprise storage solutions also include capacity drives which provide enterprise class reliability at the lowest cost per
GB and are primarily for use in data storage systems, in tiered storage models and where data must be stored reliably for years. Lastly, our enterprise storage solutions include solid-state solutions which feature fast read/write speeds in high
capacities.

In fiscal 2013, our HGST subsidiary announced a new helium-filled hard drive platform, which is at the forefront
of advanced technology for increasing capacity and significantly reducing total cost of ownership for enterprise and cloud customers. This new platform allows HGST to design seven-platter drives in a standard 3.5-inch form factor that will deliver
superior total cost of ownership at the data center level by allowing significant improvements in capacity, power, cooling and storage density. Our hard drive enterprise unit shipments were 28 million, 16 million and 10 million for
2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Branded Product Solutions.Our branded product solutions
consist of hard drives embedded into WD®-, HGST- and G-Technology-branded external storage appliances with
capacities ranging from 500 GB to 24 TB and using interfaces such as USB 2.0, USB 3.0, external SATA,
FireWireTM, ThunderboltTMand Ethernet network connections. Within branded products, we offer
hard drives which provide high quality, reliable storage for backup and capacity expansion in both mobile and desktop form factors that are designed to keep digital content secure while providing portable storage for desktops and notebooks. Certain
branded product solutions include software that assists customers with backup, remote access and management of digital content. Branded products also include our home entertainment products and wireless home networking products.

We have recently expanded our solutions for SMBs, by offering complete network storage solutions designed to meet the needs of SMBs by
providing centralized storage, data protection and remote file access.

Lastly, our home entertainment
solutions include media players which connect to a user’s television or home theater system and play digital movies, music and photos from an integrated hard drive, network hard drives, any of our WD®-branded external hard drives, other USB mass storage devices or content services accessed over the Internet. Our
branded product hard drive unit shipments were 25 million, 18 million and 25 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Consumer Electronics Solutions.Consumer electronic solutions are used in DVRs, gaming consoles, set top boxes, camcorders and entertainment and navigation systems in automobiles. Our consumer
electronic solutions include hard drives designed and optimized for video streaming applications and continuous digital video recording, such as set-top-boxes, DVRs and surveillance. These hard drives deliver the characteristics CE manufacturers
seek most, which are quiet operation, low operating temperature, low power consumption, high reliability and optimized streaming capabilities. Our consumer electronics unit shipments were 28 million, 17 million and 21 million for
2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.







Research and Development

We devote substantial resources to the development of new products and the improvement of existing products. We focus our engineering efforts on coordinating our product design and manufacturing processes
to bring our products to market in a cost-effective and timely manner. Research and development expenses totaled $1.6 billion, $1.1 billion and $703 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. For a discussion of risks related to our
development of new products, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Technology and Product Development

Hard Drives

Hard drives provide non-volatile data storage, which means that the data remains present when power is no longer applied to the device. The primary measures of hard drive performance include:



•Acoustics — sound power emitted during hard drive operation, commonly expressed in decibels, and perceived loudness due to sound pressure,
commonly expressed in sones;



•Data transfer rate — sustained rate of data transfer to and from the disk, commonly expressed in gigabits per second;



•Power consumption — which is the amount of electricity required to operate the drive, measured in watts;



•Seek time — time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface, commonly expressed in milliseconds;



•Spindle rotation speed — nominal rotation speed of the disks inside the hard drive, commonly expressed in RPM or latency. Spindle rotation
speeds commonly stated as 5,400, 7,200 and 15,000 RPM are sometimes approximations; and



•Storage capacity — which is the amount of data that can be stored on the hard drive, commonly expressed in GB or TB.

Industry-standard interfaces allow the drives to communicate with the host system. The primary interface
for PCs is SATA and the primary interfaces for enterprise systems are SAS, Fibre Channel and SATA.

The main components of the
hard drive are a Head-Disk-Assembly (“HDA”) and a Printed Circuit Board Assembly (“PCBA”).

The HDA
includes heads, magnetic media, head positioning mechanism (“actuator”) and spindle motor. A rigid base and top cover contain these components in a contamination-controlled environment. One or more disks positioned around a motor-driven
spindle hub that rotates the disks comprise the disk-pack assembly. The disk is made up of a smooth substrate on which thin layers of magnetic materials are deposited. The head stack assembly (“HSA”) is comprised of a magnetic positioner
and a pivot-arm module on which the individual heads, including suspension, are mounted. Each disk surface has a head suspended directly above it, which can read data from or write data to the spinning disk.

The PCBA includes both standard and custom integrated circuits, an interface connector to the host computer and a power connector. The
integrated circuits on the printed circuit board typically include a power device that controls the motor and HSA positioner, and a System-on-Chip (“SoC”) comprised of a drive interface, controller and recording channel. The drive
interface receives instructions from the host computer, while the controller directs the flow of data to or from the disks and controls the heads. The location of data on each disk is logically maintained in concentric tracks divided into sectors.
The host computer sends instructions to the controller to read data from or write data to the disks, based on logical track and sector locations. Guided by instructions from the controller, the HSA pivots in an arc across the disk until it reaches
the selected track of a disk, where the data is recorded or retrieved.

The storage capacity of a hard drive is determined by
the number of disks and each disk’s areal density (track density multiplied by bit density), which is a measure of the amount of data that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk per unit area. Head and magnetic media technologies
are two of the key technology components of hard drives affecting areal density. We develop and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media used in our hard drive products. As areal density increases, achieving a given drive
capacity potentially reduces product costs over time through reduced component requirements. We also invest considerable resources in research and development, manufacturing infrastructure and capital equipment of head and magnetic media components
in order to secure our competitive position and cost structure.

Solid-State Drives

Solid-state drives use semiconductor, non-volatile media, rather than magnetic media and magnetic heads, to store and allow fast access to
data without any moving parts. The cost per bit of solid-state drives is more expensive than hard drives, but the higher input/output (“IO”) performance makes solid-state drives an attractive new tier of storage that fits between DRAM
memory and hard drives. Solid-state drives are finding growing usage in enterprise storage systems and servers in applications that demand the highest IO performance.







The non-volatile memory in use today for solid-state drives is NAND flash technology. While
Single Level Cell (“SLC”) Flash provides the highest endurance and performance, the optimal balance of price and performance is usually achieved through the use of Multi-Level Cell (“MLC”) Flash. Multiple NAND Flash die are used
on a single PCBA and connected in parallel through a controller to the host bus. Various performance classes of solid-state drives are created by varying the number of parallel NAND channels and the speed of controller logic and firmware. The
controller contains hardware logic and firmware to buffer the data flow to and from the host, to the NAND Flash, and to manage the reliability and performance of the NAND Flash media.

The typical host interfaces for solid-state drives include PCIe, SAS and SATA. PCIe products typically offer the highest performance and
come on edge cards that plug into the PCIe bus. PCIe defines the hardware and electrical interface but the software protocols are still proprietary today. New standards such as NVMe and SCSI express are emerging to bring more standardized software
protocols for communicating with PCIe solid-state drives. SAS and SATA products utilize standardized interfaces similar to hard drives and come in 2.5-inch form factors with differing package heights depending on the application and usage. The
typical power consumption for the SAS and SATA interfaces is similar to hard drives, while the power consumption of PCIe form factor devices is typically higher.

Solid-State Hybrid Drives

Solid-state hybrid drives combine semiconductor
non-volatile memory, typically NAND Flash, and magnetic rotating storage in one device. The capacity of the non-volatile memory is typically 8 GB to 32 GB. The prevalent usage of these hybrid drives is in notebook computers. The non-volatile memory
and control electronics are mounted on the same board as the HDD electronics and share the same host SATA interface as hard drives. The non-volatile memory is utilized as a non-volatile cache to enhance input/output performance, to reduce latency on
boot up of the system, and to reduce power consumption (by allowing the hard drive to spin down more often). The key challenges of adding the non-volatile memory to the hard drive card are in adding the control electronics for the NAND Flash, the
firmware to manage the NAND Flash, qualifying the NAND Flash memory for use in this application, and the algorithms and new software commands sets to manage data between the non-volatile memory, the HDD, and the host system.

Our products generally leverage a common platform for various products within product families, and in some cases across product
families, resulting in the commonality of components which reduces our exposure to changes in demand, facilitates inventory management and allows us to achieve lower costs through purchasing economies. This platform strategy also enables our
customers to leverage their qualification efforts onto successive product models. For a discussion of risks related to technological innovations, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Sales and Distribution

We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world including the major geographies of the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the
Middle East. Our international sales, which include sales to foreign subsidiaries of United States (“U.S.”) companies but do not include sales to U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies, represented 78%, 81% and 83% of our net revenue
for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Sales to international customers are subject to certain risks not normally encountered in domestic operations, including exposure to tariffs and various trade regulations. For a discussion regarding the risks
related to sales to international customers, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We perform our
marketing and advertising functions internally and through outside firms utilizing both consumer media and trade publications targeting various reseller and end-user categories. We also maintain customer relationships through direct communication
and providing information and support through our Web site. In accordance with standard storage industry practice, we provide distributors and retailers with limited price protection and programs under which we reimburse certain marketing
expenditures. We also provide distributors, resellers and OEMs with other sales incentive programs.

Original Equipment
Manufacturers.OEMs, including large-scale datacenter operators,purchase our products, either directly or through a contract manufacturer such as an original design manufacturer (“ODM”), and assemble them into the devices
they build. OEMs typically seek to qualify two or more providers for each generation of products and generally will purchase products from those vendors for the life of that product. Many of our OEM customers utilize just-in-time inventory
management processes. As a result, for certain OEMs we maintain a base stock of finished goods inventory in facilities located near or adjacent to the OEM’s operations.







Distributors.We use a broad group of distributors to sell our products to non-direct
customers such as small computer and CE manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators, online retailers and other resellers. Distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements with us for the purchase and redistribution of our products in
specific territories.

Retailers.We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major retailers such
as computer superstores, warehouse clubs, online retailers, and computer electronics stores, and authorize sales through distributors to smaller retailers. The retail channel complements our other sales channels while helping to build brand
awareness for us and our products. We also sell our branded products through our Web sites.

For 2013 and 2011, no single
customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue. For 2012, sales to Hewlett Packard Company accounted for 11% of our net revenue. For a discussion of risks related to our customers, refer to Item 1A of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. For additional information regarding revenue recognition, sales by geographic region and major customer information, see Part II, Item 8, Notes 1 and 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Seasonality

We have historically experienced seasonal fluctuations in our business with higher levels of demand in the first and second quarters of our fiscal year as a result of increased customer spending.
Seasonality can also be impacted by the growth in emerging markets and macroeconomic conditions. For a discussion of risks related to seasonality in our business, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Service and Warranty

We
generally warrant our newly manufactured products against defects in materials and workmanship from one to five years from the date of manufacture depending on the type of product. Our warranty obligation is generally limited to repair or
replacement. We have engaged third parties in various countries in multiple regions to provide various levels of testing, processing or recertification of returned products for our customers. For a further discussion of our service and warranty
policy, see Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Manufacturing

We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product
manufacturing processes, test and tooling, execution skills and human resources to continue to be successful and be able to grow, as necessary, our manufacturing operations. We strive to maintain manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing yields,
reliable products, and high-quality components. The critical elements of our hard drive production are high volume and utilization, low cost assembly and testing, and maintaining close relationships with our strategic component suppliers to access
best-in-class technology and manufacturing capacity.

Hard drive manufacturing is a complex process involving the production
and assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and thorough testing. The assembly process occurs in a “clean room” environment that demands skill in process engineering and efficient space utilization to control the operating
costs of this manufacturing environment. Our clean room manufacturing process consists of modular production units, each of which contains a number of work cells.

We continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort to increase productivity, sustain and improve quality and decrease manufacturing costs. We continually evaluate which steps in the
manufacturing process would benefit from automation and how automated manufacturing processes can improve productivity and reduce manufacturing costs. For our non-hard drive products, we leverage the efficiencies of contract manufacturers when
strategically advantageous. For a discussion of risks related to manufacturing, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







Materials and Supplies

We use a number of components, equipment, goods and services in the manufacturing of our products. The key components of our hard drives are: magnetic heads; magnetic media; suspensions with related head
gimbal assemblies (“HGAs”) and HSAs; spindle motors; custom and standard electronics such as SoC, magnetic media, motor controllers, pre-amps and printed circuit boards; base and top covers; and magnets and related voice coil motors.

We design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media required for our hard drives. We acquire all
of the remaining components for our products from third party suppliers. The major components used in the manufacture of our solid-state drives (the semiconductor media and SoC) and in our media players (the controller) are also acquired from third
party suppliers. We believe that our sourcing strategy currently enables us to have the business flexibility needed to select the highest quality, low cost of ownership suppliers as product designs and technologies evolve.

We generally retain multiple suppliers for each of our component requirements but in some instances use sole sources for business
reasons. Currently, we believe that there are no major issues with component availability. For a discussion of risks related to our component supplies, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Backlog

A substantial
portion of our orders are generally for shipments within 30 to 60 days of the placement of the order. Customers’ purchase orders typically may be canceled with relatively short notice to us, with little or no cost to the customer, or
modified by customers to provide for delivery at a later date. In addition, for many of our OEMs utilizing just-in-time inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments and instead, receive a periodic forecast of requirements.
Therefore, backlog information as of the end of a particular period is not necessarily indicative of future levels of our revenue and profit and may not be comparable to prior periods.

Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Information

We have more than 6,000
patents and have many patent applications in process. We believe that although our patents and patent applications have considerable value, the successful manufacturing and marketing of our products depends primarily upon the technical and
managerial competence of our staff. Accordingly, the patents held and applied for do not ensure our future success.

In
addition to patent protection of certain intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that our non-patented intellectual property, particularly some of our
process technology, is an important factor in our success. We rely upon non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. Despite these safeguards, there is a risk that
competitors may obtain and use such information. The laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business may provide less protection for confidential information than the U.S.

We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties to manufacture and sell our products. We believe that we have adequate
cross-licenses and other agreements in place in addition to our own intellectual property portfolio to compete successfully in the storage industry. For discussion of risks related to our ownership and use of intellectual property, see Item 1A
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign laws and regulations in connection with our operations and relating to the protection of
the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls
to prevent and reduce air and water pollution. These permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. We believe that we have obtained or are in the process of obtaining all necessary environmental permits for our
operations.

We have established environmental management systems and continually update our environmental policies and
standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. We budget for operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to
comply with environmental laws.

Our properties have in some cases been operated for many years and may contain soil or
groundwater contamination. In certain of our facilities we are undertaking voluntary monitoring of soil and groundwater. Based on available information, including our voluntary monitoring activities, we do not believe that we have a current
affirmative legal obligation for any remedial action.







For a discussion of risks related to environmental regulation, see Item 1A of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

As of June 28, 2013, we employed a total of 85,777 employees worldwide, excluding temporary employees and contractors. Many of our employees are highly skilled, and our continued success depends in
part upon our ability to attract and retain such employees. Accordingly, we offer employee benefit programs which we believe are, in the aggregate, competitive with those offered by our competitors.

While the substantial majority of our employees are not party to a collective bargaining agreement, a majority of our employees in Japan
are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. In addition, each of our three manufacturing subsidiaries in China has its own labor union of which many of each subsidiary’s direct employees are members. Our three manufacturing subsidiaries
in China are not currently subject to collective bargaining agreements; however, the government has required that they begin collective bargaining negotiations in calendar 2013. We consider our employee relations to be good. For a discussion of
risks related to our skilled employees, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Available Information

We maintain an Internet Web site at www.westerndigital.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our Web site at www.westerndigital.com, free of charge, as
soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with, or furnishing of these reports to, the SEC. Any materials we file with the SEC are available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549. Additional information about the operation of the Public Reference Room can also be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a Web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including us.

Executive Officers of
the Registrant

Listed below are all of our executive officers, followed by a brief account of their business experience
during the past five years. Executive officers are normally appointed annually by the Board of Directors at a meeting of the directors immediately following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. There are no family relationships among these officers
nor any arrangements or understandings between any officer and any other person pursuant to which an officer was selected.



NameAgePositionStephen D. Milligan49President and Chief Executive OfficerTimothy M. Leyden61President, WD SubsidiaryMichael D. Cordano49President, HGST SubsidiaryWolfgang U. Nickl44Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Mr. Milligan, 49, re-joined us in March 2012 as President of WDC as a result of our acquisition of
HGST and was appointed Chief Executive Officer effective January 2, 2013. He served as HGST’s President from March 2009 to December 2009 and as its President and Chief Executive Officer from December 2009 until our acquisition of HGST in
March 2012. From September 2007 to October 2009, Mr. Milligan served as HGST’s Chief Financial Officer. From January 2004 to September 2007, Mr. Milligan served as our Chief Financial Officer and from September 2002 to January 2004,
Mr. Milligan served as our Senior Vice President, Finance. From April 1997 to September 2002, Mr. Milligan held various financial and accounting roles of increasing responsibility at Dell Inc. (“Dell”). Prior to joining Dell,
Mr. Milligan was employed at Price Waterhouse for 12 years, most recently as Senior Manager.

Mr. Leyden, 61,
re-joined us in May 2007 and was appointed to the position of President of our WD subsidiary on July 25, 2012. Prior to serving as President of WD, Mr. Leyden served as Chief Operating Officer from August 2010 to July 2012, Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer from September 2007 to August 2010, and Executive Vice President, Finance from May 2007 to September 2007. From December 2001 to May 2007, Mr. Leyden served in senior finance capacities at Sage Software
Inc. and Sage Software of California, subsidiaries of Sage Group PLC, a U.K. public company that supplies accounting and business management software to small and medium-sized businesses, including as Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial
Officer from December 2001 to May 2004 and as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer from May 2004 to May 2007. Mr. Leyden previously served in various worldwide finance, manufacturing and information technology capacities
with us from 1983 to December 2000.







Mr. Cordano, 49, joined us on March 8, 2012 in connection with our acquisition of
HGST. Mr. Cordano was appointed President of our HGST subsidiary on July 25, 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Cordano served as HGST’s Executive Vice President, Sales & Marketing, and President, Branded Business, since April
2009. From February 2005 to April 2009, Mr. Cordano served as Chief Executive Officer and co-founder of Fabrik, Inc., which was acquired by HGST in April 2009. From 1994 to February 2005, Mr. Cordano served in various roles of increasing
responsibility at Maxtor Corporation, including as the Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing from April 2001 until February 2005, where he formed and managed the Branded Products Business Unit.

Mr. Nickl, 44, was promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of WDC in August 2012. Mr. Nickl previously
served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from August 2010 to August 2012 and Vice President, Finance from October 2005 to August 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Nickl served as Vice President, Worldwide Business
Operations from May 2005 to October 2005, and as Executive Director, Worldwide Business Operations from July 2003 to May 2005.



