Item 1.Business



General



We are a global provider of solutions for the collection,
    storage, management, protection and use of digital content,
    including audio and video. Our principal products are hard
    drives, which are devices that use one or more rotating magnetic
    disks (“magnetic media”) to store and allow fast
    access to data. Hard drives are currently the primary storage
    medium for digital content. Our hard drives are used in desktop
    and notebook computers, corporate and cloud computing data
    centers, home entertainment equipment and stand-alone consumer
    storage devices. In addition to hard drives, our other products
    include solid-state drives and home entertainment and networking
    products.



Business
    Strategy



Our business strategy is to provide a broad selection of
    reliable, high quality storage devices at a low total cost of
    ownership and with high efficiency and speed. We have designed
    our business strategy to accommodate significant unit and
    revenue growth with relatively small increases in operating
    expenses and to consistently achieve high asset utilization. We
    believe this strategy helps accomplish the following:



•distinguishes us in the dynamic and competitive electronic data
    storage industry;•provides value to our customers;•allows us to better achieve consistent financial performance,
    including strong returns on invested capital; and•provides continued diversification of our storage product
    portfolio and entry into additional markets.



Industry



We believe that growth in the unit sales within the electronic
    data storage industry has continued to outpace the growth in the
    unit sales of all personal computers (“PCs”). For
    example, there were approximately 89% more hard drives sold than
    PCs in calendar 2010, based on industry data. We believe the
    following factors continue to drive the unit growth of storage
    device sales in addition to PCs:



•consumer use of data storage devices for the playing, retention
    and creation of digital content for personal use;•growth of the external storage devices, permitting the easy
    storage, portability and backup of digital data such as music,
    photographs or video; and•growth of Internet-based applications, such as social
    networking, and cloud computing which drives the need for
    digital content storage and distribution.



For a discussion of risks relating to the electronic data
    storage industry, please see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    onForm 10-K.



Client
    Compute



Client compute storage devices consist of internal hard drives
    and solid-state drives for desktop and mobile PCs. Hard drives
    and solid-state drives store the computer operating system and
    application software, as well as the data used by the
    applications. Desktop PCs are intended for regular use at a
    single location in homes, businesses and multi-user networks.
    Mobile PCs, primarily notebook computers, are used both in and
    away from homes and businesses. We believe that the demand for
    client compute hard drives and solid-state drives will grow
    primarily due to the increasing demand in emerging countries,
    continued corporate refreshes, the proliferation of digital
    content and requirements for increasing performance, small size
    and low power consumption.



Client
    Non-Compute



External Storage.External storage devices
    supplement the storage space of PC systems for home and small
    office networks, back up data on internal drives and are used
    for portability and security. We believe there is a growing





consumer need to back up personal digital content and externally
    expand storage capacity. Media players connect to a user’s
    television or home theater system and play digital movies, music
    and photos from an integrated hard drive, USB mass storage
    devices or content services accessed over the Internet. We also
    believe there is a growing need for consumers to play and view
    their personal stored digital content and premium content from
    the Internet on their television and home theater system
    consistent with the growing trend to digitize rich content and
    data.



Consumer Electronics.Hard drives for CE
    products are primarily used in digital video recorders
    (“DVRs”) and game consoles. DVRs offer greater
    consumer viewing flexibility and enhanced capabilities such as
    pausing live television, simplifying the process of recording
    and cataloging recorded television programs and quickly
    forwarding or returning to any section of a recorded television
    program. Game consoles enable users to save games, movies,
    music, pictures and other user generated content. We believe
    growth in consumer electronics will continue to create demand
    for higher capacity hard drives.Solid-statedrives are also used in consumer electronics products which are
    primarily designed for small form factor, battery powered
    consumer hand held devices, such as tablets and smartphones.



Enterprise





There is a trend towards centralization of information storage
    and delivery of Internet-based services through cloud computing.
    Cloud computing delivers shared resources, software and
    information to users on demand on a multitude of devices, such
    as client PCs and handheld computing devices. Most cloud
    computing models consist of services delivered through large
    data centers that utilizeenterprise-classservers. The infrastructure to support cloud computing storage
    needs is driving the demand for enterprise-class hard drives andsolid-statedrives.



Other
    Market Opportunities



We regularly review opportunities to apply our knowledge of data
    storage technology to markets that we do not currently serve.
    Based on our significant investments, we believe we have the
    technology building blocks to increase our overall market
    penetration and be a full-line data storage solutions supplier.
    Consistent with our measured and deliberate approach to new
    market entries in the recent past, our approach to additional
    new markets will be based on a careful assessment of the risks,
    rewards, requirements and profit potential of such actions.



Products



We offer a broad line of storage devices. Our hard drives
    currently include 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch form factors, capacities
    ranging from 80 gigabytes (“GB”) to 3 terabytes
    (“TB”), nominal rotation speeds up to 10,000
    revolutions per minute (“RPM”), and interfaces such as
    Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (“SATA”) and
    Serial Attached SCSI (Small Computer System Interface)
    (“SAS”). In addition, we offer a family of hard drives
    specifically designed to consume substantially less power than
    standard drives, utilizing our WD GreenPower
    Technologytm.

    Our solid-state drives currently include 2.5-inch and Compact
    Flash form factors, capacities ranging from 1 GB to 256 GB, and
    interfaces such as SATA and PATA.





Client
    Compute Storage Products



Client compute consists of hard drives and solid-state drives
    for desktop and mobile PCs. Our hard drive client compute unit
    shipments were 151 million, 147 million and
    109 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our
    client compute storage products include:



•WD
    Caviar®family of hard drives is designed for use in desktop PCs
    requiring high performance, reliability and capacity with
    attributes such as low cost per gigabyte and quiet acoustics;•WD
    Scorpio®family of hard drives is designed for use in mobile PCs
    requiring high performance, reliability and capacity with
    attributes such as low power consumption for extended battery
    life and cooler operation, quiet acoustics and protection
    against shocks; and•WD Silicon
    Edgetmfamily of solid-state drives is designed for both read-intensive
    client/consumer applications and write-intensive original
    equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) applications that
    require high performance and endurance with easy plug and play
    compatibility.



Client
    Non-Compute Storage Products



Client non-compute consists of branded products and consumer
    electronics products. Our hard drive client non-compute unit
    shipments were 46 million, 38 million and
    33 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Branded Products.Branded products consists of
    hard drives embedded into
    WD®-branded

    external storage appliances with capacities ranging from 250 GB
    to 8 TB and using interfaces such as Universal Serial Bus
    (“USB”) 2.0, USB 3.0, external SATA,
    FireWiretmand Ethernet network connections. Certain branded products
    models include software that assists customers with back up,
    remote access and management of digital content. Branded
    products also include our home entertainment and networking
    products. Our branded products include:



•My
    Book®and WD
    ElementstmDesktop family of storage appliances are designed to add
    external capacity to desktops and DVRs, allow for the transfer
    and storage of videos directly from certain camcorders, and
    connect to networks to simplify storage for consumers;•My
    Passport®and WD
    ElementstmPortable family of storage appliances are designed for external
    portability weighing less than one-half of a pound and allow for
    the transfer and storage of videos directly from certain
    camcorders;•WD
    ShareSpacetmis a network-attached storage system designed for home office or
    small office applications;•WD
    TV®media players connect to a user’s television or home
    theater system and play digital movies, music and photos from an
    integrated hard drive, network hard drives, any of our
    WD®-branded

    external hard drives, other USB mass storage devices or content
    services accessed over the Internet; and•WDLivewiretmwhich enables consumers to use their existing electrical outlets
    to extend secure and reliable high-speed Internet connections
    throughout the home.



Consumer Electronics
    Products.WD®AV family of hard drives is designed for use in products such as
    DVRs and audio and video applications.
    WD®AV drives deliver the characteristics CE manufacturers seek
    most, which are quiet operation, low operating temperature, low
    power consumption specifications, high reliability and optimized
    streaming capabilities.



Enterprise
    Storage Products



Enterprise consists of hard drives for traditional enterprise
    and nearline storage applications as well as solid-state drives
    for embedded applications. Our hard drive enterprise unit
    shipments were 10 million, 9 million and
    4 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our
    enterprise storage products include:



•WD S25 hard drive is designed for mission-critical enterprise
    server and storage applications such as data centers and large
    data arrays;







•WD
    VelociRaptor®hard drive is designed for enterprise server and storage
    applications requiring high performance and high reliability.
    This hard drive is also used in the high-end desktop PC market
    for applications including gaming, servers and advanced CAD/CAM
    (computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing) systems;•WD®RE family of hard drives is designed for nearline storage
    enterprise applications requiring high performance and high
    reliability; and•WD
    SiliconDrive®family of solid-state drives features fast read/write speeds in
    high capacities and is designed for embedded system OEM
    applications that require high performance and reliability with
    a long product life.



Research
    and Development



We devote substantial resources to the development of new
    products and improvement of existing products. We focus our
    engineering efforts on coordinating our product design and
    manufacturing processes to bring our products to market in a
    cost-effective and timely manner. Research and development
    expenses totaled $703 million, $611 million and
    $509 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For a
    discussion of risks related to our development of new products,
    see Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Technology
    and Product Development



Hard drives provide non-volatile data storage, which means that
    the data remains present when power is no longer applied to the
    device. The primary measures of hard drive performance include:



•Acoustics — sound power emitted during hard drive
    operation, commonly expressed in decibels, and perceived
    loudness due to sound pressure, commonly expressed in sones;•Data transfer rate — sustained rate of data transfer
    to and from the disk, commonly expressed in gigabits per second.
    One gigabit equals one billion bits;•Power Consumption — which is the amount of electricity
    required to operate the drive, measured in watts;•Seek time — time needed to position the heads over a
    selected track on the disk surface, commonly expressed in
    milliseconds;•Spindle rotation speed — nominal rotation speed of the
    disks inside the hard drive, commonly expressed in RPM or
    latency. Spindle rotation speeds commonly stated as 5,400, 7,200
    and 10,000 RPM are sometimes approximations; and•Storage capacity — which is the amount of data that
    can be stored on the hard drive, commonly expressed in GB or TB.
    As defined in the hard drive industry, one GB equals one billion
    bytes and one TB equals one trillion bytes. A byte is a digital
    character, typically comprised of eight bits. A bit is a binary
    digit, the smallest unit of information in a digital system.



Industry-standard interfaces allow the drives to communicate
    with the host system. The primary interface for PCs is SATA and
    the primary interfaces for enterprise systems are SAS, Fibre
    Channel Arbitrated Loop (“FC-AL”) and SATA.



The main components of the hard drive are a Head-Disk-Assembly
    (“HDA”) and a Printed Circuit Board Assembly
    (“PCBA”).



The HDA includes heads, magnetic media, head positioning
    mechanism (“actuator”) and spindle motor. A rigid base
    and top cover contain these components in a
    contamination-controlled environment. One or more disks
    positioned around a motor-driven spindle hub that rotates the
    disks comprise the disk-pack assembly. The disk is made up of a
    smooth substrate on which thin layers of magnetic materials are
    deposited. The head stack assembly (“HSA”) is
    comprised of a magnetic positioner and a pivot-arm module on
    which the individual heads, including suspension, are mounted.
    Each disk has a head suspended directly above it, which can read
    data from or write data to the spinning disk.



The PCBA includes both standard and custom integrated circuits,
    an interface connector to the host computer and a power
    connector. The integrated circuits on the printed circuit board
    typically include a power device that controls the motor and HSA
    positioner, and a System on Chip (SoC) comprised of a drive
    interface, controller and recording channel.





The drive interface receives instructions from the host
    computer, while the controller directs the flow of data to or
    from the disks and controls the heads. The location of data on
    each disk is logically maintained in concentric tracks divided
    into sectors. The host computer sends instructions to the
    controller to read data from or write data to the disks, based
    on logical track and sector locations. Guided by instructions
    from the controller, the HSA pivots in an arc across the disk
    until it reaches the selected track of a disk, where the data is
    recorded or retrieved.



The storage capacity of a hard drive is determined by the number
    of disks and each disk’s areal density (track density
    multiplied by bit density), which is a measure of the amount of
    data that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk per
    unit area. Head and magnetic media technologies are two of the
    key components affecting areal density. As areal density
    increases, achieving a given drive capacity potentially reduces
    product costs over time through reduced component requirements.
    We are vertically integrated in these two most important
    technology components of hard drives (heads and magnetic media).
    We also invest considerable resources in research and
    development, manufacturing infrastructure and capital equipment
    of head and magnetic media components, in order to secure our
    competitive position and cost structure.



Solid-state drives use semiconductor, non-volatile media, rather
    than magnetic media and magnetic heads, to store and allow fast
    access to data without any moving parts. The capacity of a
    solid-state drive is based on the total number of megabytes
    (“MB”) or GB of semiconductor media in the solid-state
    drive.



Our products generally leverage a common platform for various
    products within product families, and in some cases across
    product families, resulting in the commonality of components
    which reduces our exposure to changes in demand, facilitates
    inventory management and allows us to achieve lower costs
    through purchasing economies. This platform strategy also
    enables our customers to leverage their qualification efforts
    onto successive product models. For a discussion of risks
    related to technological innovations, see Item 1A of this
    Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Sales and
    Distribution



We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world
    including the major geographies of the Americas, Asia Pacific,
    Europe and the Middle East. Our international sales, which
    include sales to foreign subsidiaries of United States
    (“U.S.”) companies but do not include sales to
    U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies, represented 83%,
    81% and 80% of our net revenue for 2011, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. Sales to international customers may be subject to
    certain risks not normally encountered in domestic operations,
    including exposure to tariffs and various trade regulations. For
    a discussion regarding the risks related to sales to
    international customers, see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    onForm 10-K.



We perform our marketing and advertising functions internally
    and through outside firms utilizing both consumer media and
    trade publications targeting various reseller and end-user
    categories. We also maintain customer relationships through
    direct communication and providing information and support
    through our Web site. In accordance with standard hard drive
    industry practice, we provide distributors and retailers with
    limited price protection and programs under which we reimburse
    certain marketing expenditures. We also provide distributors,
    resellers and OEMs with other sales incentive programs.



Original Equipment Manufacturers.OEMs
    purchase our products, either directly or through a contract
    manufacturer such as an original design manufacturer
    (“ODM”), and assemble them into the devices they
    build. OEMs typically seek to qualify two or more providers for
    each generation of products and generally will purchase products
    from those vendors for the life of that product. Many of our OEM
    customers utilizejust-in-timeinventory management processes or supply chain business models
    that allow for“build-to-order,”in which they do not build until there is a firm order. For
    certain OEMs, we maintain a base stock of finished goods
    inventory in facilities located near or adjacent to the
    OEM’s operations. We believe that our success depends on
    our ability to maintain and improve our strong relationships
    with the leading OEMs.



Distributors.We use a broad group of
    distributors to sell our products to non-direct customers such
    as small computer and CE manufacturers, dealers, systems
    integrators, online retailers and other resellers. Distributors
    generally enter into non-exclusive agreements with us for the
    purchase and redistribution of our products in specific
    territories.



Retailers.We sell our branded products
    directly to a select group of major retailers such as computer
    superstores, warehouse clubs, online retailers, and computer
    electronics stores, and authorize sales through distributors to
    smaller retailers. The retail channel complements our other
    sales channels while helping to build brand awareness for WD and
    our products. We also sell our branded products through our Web
    site.





For 2011 and 2010, no single customer accounted for 10% or more
    of our net revenue. For 2009, sales to Dell Inc. accounted for
    10% of our net revenue. For a discussion of risks related to our
    customers, refer to Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.For additional information regarding revenue recognition, sales
    by geographic region and major customer information, see
    Part II, Item 8, Notes 1 and 6 in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual
    Report onForm 10-K.



Competition



We compete with manufacturers of hard drives for client compute,
    client non-compute and enterprise applications as well as
    manufacturers of solid-state drives. Our competitors include
    companies such as Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Intel
    Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co.
    Ltd., Seagate Technology, STEC, Inc. and Toshiba Corporation.



time-to-market,

time-to-volume

time-to-quality,



We differentiate WD by focusing on operational excellence, high
    product quality and reliability, and designing and incorporating
    into our storage devices desirable product performance
    attributes. We also differentiate WD by emphasizing non-product
    related attributes such as availability and rapid response to
    our customers, which requires accelerated design cycles,
    customer delivery, production flexibility and timely service and
    support. We believe that trust in a manufacturer’s
    reputation, its execution track record and the establishment of
    strategic relationships have become important factors in the
    selection of a storage device, particularly in a rapidly
    changing technology environment.



Seasonality



We have historically experienced seasonal fluctuations in our
    business with higher levels of demand in the first and second
    quarters of our fiscal year. This seasonality is a result of
    consumer spending at the beginning of the school year and during
    the holiday season. Seasonality can also be impacted by the
    growth in emerging markets and macroeconomic conditions. For a
    discussion of risks related to seasonality in our business, see
    Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Service
    and Warranty



We generally warrant our newly manufactured products against
    defects in materials and workmanship from one to five years from
    the date of manufacture depending on the type of product. Our
    warranty obligation is generally limited to repair or
    replacement. We have engaged third parties in various countries
    in multiple regions to provide various levels of testing,
    processingand/orrecertification of returned products for our customers. For a
    further discussion of our service and warranty policy, see
    Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed
    Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report
    onForm 10-K.



Manufacturing



We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product
    manufacturing processes, test and tooling, execution skills and
    human resources to continue to be successful and be able to
    grow, as necessary, our manufacturing operations. We strive to
    maintain manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing yields,
    reliable products, and high-quality components. The critical
    elements of our hard drive production are high volume and
    utilization, low cost





assembly and testing, and maintaining close relationships with
    our strategic component suppliers to accessbest-of-classtechnology and manufacturing quality.



Hard drive manufacturing is a complex process involving the
    assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and
    thorough testing. The assembly process occurs in a “clean
    room” environment that demands skill in process engineering
    and efficient space utilization to control the operating costs
    of this manufacturing environment. Our clean room manufacturing
    process consists of modular production units, each of which
    contains a number of work cells.



We continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort
    to increase productivity, sustain and improve quality and
    decrease manufacturing costs. We continually evaluate which
    steps in the manufacturing process would benefit from automation
    and how automated manufacturing processes can improve
    productivity and reduce manufacturing costs. We leverage the
    efficiencies of contract manufacturers when strategically
    advantageous. For a discussion of risks related to
    manufacturing, see Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Materials
    and Supplies



We use a number of components, equipment, goods and services in
    the manufacturing of our products. The key components of our
    hard drives are:



•magnetic heads;•magnetic media;•suspensions with related head gimbal assemblies
    (“HGAs”) and head stack assemblies (“HSAs”);•spindle motors;•custom and standard electronics such assystem-on-chip,magnetic media, motor controllers,pre-ampsand
    printed circuit boards;•base and top covers; and•magnets and related voice coil motors.



We design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and
    magnetic media required for our hard drives. We acquire all of
    the remaining components for our products from third party
    suppliers. The major components used in the manufacture of our
    solid-state drives (the semiconductor media andsystem-on-chip)and in our media players (the controller) are also acquired from
    third party suppliers. We believe that our sourcing strategy
    currently enables us to have the business flexibility needed to
    select the highest quality, low cost of ownership suppliers as
    product designs and technologies evolve.



We generally retain multiple suppliers for each of our component
    requirements but in some instances use sole sources for business
    reasons. Currently, we believe that there are no major issues
    with component availability. For a discussion of risks related
    to our component supplies, see Item 1A of this Annual
    Report onForm 10-K.



Backlog



A substantial portion of our orders are generally for shipments
    within 30 to 60 days of the placement of the order.
    Customers’ purchase orders typically may be canceled with
    relatively short notice to us, with little or no cost to the
    customer, or modified by customers to provide for delivery at a
    later date. In addition, for many of our OEMs utilizingjust-in-timeinventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments
    and instead, receive a periodic forecast of requirements.
    Therefore, backlog information as of the end of a particular
    period is not necessarily indicative of future levels of our
    revenue and profit and may not be comparable to prior periods.



Patents,
    Licenses and Proprietary Information



We own numerous patents and have many patent applications in
    process. We believe that, although our patents and patent
    applications have considerable value, the successful
    manufacturing and marketing of our products depends primarily
    upon the technical and managerial competence of our staff.
    Accordingly, the patents held and applied for do not ensure our
    future success.





In addition to patent protection of certain intellectual
    property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and
    processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that
    our non-patented intellectual property, particularly some of our
    process technology, is an important factor in our success. We
    rely upon non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions
    and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary
    information. Despite these safeguards, there is a risk that
    competitors may obtain and use such information. The laws of
    foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business may provide
    less protection for confidential information than the U.S.



We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties
    to manufacture and sell WD products. We believe that we have
    adequate cross-licenses and other agreements in place in
    addition to our own intellectual property portfolio to compete
    successfully in the hard drive industry. For discussion of risks
    related to our ownership and use of intellectual property, see
    Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Environmental
    Regulation



We are subject to a variety of regulations in connection with
    our operations. We believe that we have obtained or are in the
    process of obtaining all necessary environmental permits for our
    operations. For a discussion of risks related to environmental
    regulation, see Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Employees



As of July 1, 2011, we employed a total of
    65,431 employees worldwide, excluding temporary employees
    and contractors. Many of our employees are highly skilled, and
    our continued success depends in part upon our ability to
    attract and retain such employees. Accordingly, we offer
    employee benefit programs which we believe are, in the
    aggregate, competitive with those offered by our competitors. We
    consider our employee relations to be good. For a discussion of
    risks related to our skilled employees, see Item 1A of this
    Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Available
    Information



We maintain an Internet Web site at www.westerndigital.com. Our
    Annual Report onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, are available on our Web site at
    www.westerndigital.com, free of charge, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with,
    or furnishing of these reports to, the SEC. Any materials we
    file with the SEC are available at the SEC’s Public
    Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
    20549. Additional information about the operation of the Public
    Reference Room can also be obtained by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.In addition, the SEC maintains a Web site at www.sec.gov that
    contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
    information regarding issuers that file electronically with the
    SEC, including us.



Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



Listed below are all of our executive officers as of
    July 1, 2011, followed by a brief account of their business
    experience during the past five years. Executive officers are
    normally appointed annually by the Board of Directors at a
    meeting of the directors immediately following the Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders. There are no family relationships among
    these officers nor any arrangements or understandings between
    any officer and any other person pursuant to which an officer
    was selected.



NameAgePositionJohn F. Coyne61President and Chief Executive OfficerTimothy M. Leyden59Chief Operating OfficerWolfgang U. Nickl42Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerJames D. Morris46Executive Vice President and General Manager, Storage ProductsJames J. Murphy52Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Sales OperationsJames K. Welsh III54Executive Vice President and General Manager, Branded Products







Mr. Coyne, 61, has been a director since October 2006. He
    joined us in 1983 and has served in various executive
    capacities. From November 2002 until June 2005, Mr. Coyne
    served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, from June
    2005 until September 2005, he served as Executive Vice
    President, Worldwide Operations and from November 2005 until
    June 2006, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief
    Operations Officer. Effective June 2006, he was named President
    and Chief Operating Officer. In January 2007, he became
    President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Coyne is a
    director of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.



Mr. Leyden, 59, re-joined us in May 2007 as Executive Vice
    President, Finance, and was promoted to Executive Vice President
    and Chief Financial Officer in September 2007. From December
    2001 to May 2007, Mr. Leyden served in senior finance
    capacities at Sage Software Inc. and Sage Software of
    California, subsidiaries of Sage Group PLC, a U.K. public
    company that supplies accounting and business management
    software to small and medium-sized businesses, including as Vice
    President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer from December
    2001 to May 2004 and as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief
    Financial Officer from May 2004 to May 2007. Mr. Leyden
    previously served in various worldwide finance, manufacturing
    and information technology capacities with us from 1983 to
    December 2000.



Mr. Nickl, 42, was promoted to Senior Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer in August 2010. Mr. Nickl had
    previously served as the Company’s Vice President, Finance,
    since October 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Nickl served as Vice
    President, Worldwide Business Operations from May 2005 to
    October 2005, and as Executive Director, Worldwide Business
    Operations from July 2003 to May 2005.



Mr. Morris, 46, re-joined us in October 2006 as Vice
    President and General Manager, Mobile Storage business unit. He
    was promoted to Senior Vice President and General Manager,
    Client Systems, in November 2008, to Senior Vice President
    and General Manager, Storage Products, in November 2009, and to
    Executive Vice President and General Manager, Storage Products,
    in August 2010. Mr. Morris previously served in various
    management capacities with us from 2001 to 2005.



Mr. Murphy, 52, served us as Vice President, Asia Pacific
    from 2003 to 2005, as Vice President, Worldwide Sales from 2005
    to 2007, and as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Sales
    Operations, from 2007 to 2010. He was promoted to Executive Vice
    President, Worldwide Sales and Sales Operations in August 2010.



Mr. Welsh, 54, joined us in 2005 as Vice President and
    General Manager, Branded Products. He was promoted to Senior
    Vice President and General Manager, Branded Products, in 2008,
    and to Executive Vice President and General Manager, Branded
    Products, in August 2010.



