Item 1.Business



General



We design, develop, manufacture and sell hard drives. A hard
    drive is a device that uses one or more rotating magnetic disks
    (“magnetic media”) to store and allow fast access to
    data. Hard drives are key components of computers, including
    desktop and notebook computers (“PCs”), data storage
    subsystems and many consumer electronic (“CE”) devices.



We sell our products worldwide to original equipment
    manufacturers (“OEMs”) and original design
    manufacturers (“ODMs”) for use in computer systems,
    subsystems or CE devices, and to distributors, resellers and
    retailers. Our hard drives are used in desktop computers,
    notebook computers, and enterprise applications such as servers,
    workstations, network attached storage, storage area networks
    and video surveillance equipment. Additionally, our hard drives
    are used in CE applications, such as digital video recorders
    (“DVRs”), and satellite and cable set-top boxes
    (“STBs”). We also sell our hard drives as stand-alone
    storage products by integrating them into finished enclosures,
    embedding application software and offering the products as
    WD®-branded

    external storage appliances for personal data backup and
    portable or expanded storage of digital music, photographs,
    video and other digital data.



Hard drives provide non-volatile data storage, which means that
    the data remains present when power is no longer applied to the
    device. Our hard drives currently include 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch
    form factor drives, having capacities ranging from 80 gigabytes
    (“GB”) to 2 terabytes (“TB”), nominal
    rotation speeds up to 10,000 revolutions per minute
    (“RPM”), and offer interfaces including Enhanced
    Integrated Drive Electronics (“EIDE”), Serial Advanced
    Technology Attachment (“SATA”) and Serial Attached
    SCSI (Small Computer System Interface) (“SAS”). We
    also embed our hard drives into
    WD®-branded

    external storage appliances using interfaces such as Universal
    Serial Bus (“USB”) 2.0, USB 3.0, external SATA,
    FireWiretmand Ethernet network connections with capacities of 160 GB up to
    8 TB. In addition, we offer a family of hard drives specifically
    designed to consume substantially less power than standard
    drives, utilizing our WD GreenPower
    Technologytm.



We also design, develop, manufacture and sell solid-state drives
    and media players. A solid-state drive is a storage device that
    uses semiconductor, non-volatile media, rather than magnetic
    media and magnetic heads, to store and allow fast access to
    data. We sell our solid-state drives worldwide to OEMs and
    distributors for use in the embedded systems and client PC
    markets. A media player is a device that connects to a
    user’s television, the Internetand/orhome
    theater system and plays digital movies, music and photos from
    any of our
    WD®-branded

    external hard drives, other USB mass storage devices or content
    services accessed over the Internet. We sell our media players
    worldwide to resellers and retailers under the
    WD®brand.



In November 2009, we entered the traditional enterprise market
    with our WD S25, which is a 2.5-inch, SAS interface hard drive.
    The WD S25 drive provides up to 300 GB of storage suitable for
    both mission-critical enterprise server and enterprise storage
    applications, as well as data centers and large data arrays.



Business
    Strategy



Our business strategy is to provide a broad selection of
    reliable, high quality hard drives at a low total cost of
    ownership and with high efficiency and speed. We believe this
    strategy helps accomplish the following:



•distinguishes us in the dynamic and competitive hard drive
    industry;•provides great value to our customers;•allows us to better achieve consistent financial performance,
    including strong returns on invested capital; and•provides continued diversification of our hard drive product set
    and entry into additional markets such as solid-state drives and
    media players.



We have designed our business strategy to accommodate
    significant unit and revenue growth with relatively small
    increases in operating expenses and to consistently achieve high
    asset utilization.





Industry



We design, develop and manufacture hard drives for the desktop
    and mobile PC, enterprise, CE and external hard drive markets.
    We believe that growth in the sales of hard drives has continued
    to outpace the growth in the sales of all PCs as there were
    approximately 86% more hard drives sold in the market than PCs
    in calendar 2009, based on industry data. We believe the
    following factors continue to drive the growth of hard drive
    sales in addition to PC applications:



•consumer use of hard drives for the playing, retention and
    creation of digital content for personal use in the rapidly
    growing CE market;•growth of the external hard drive market, permitting the easy
    storage, portability and backup of digital data such as music,
    photographs or video;•increased use of multiple hard drives in PCs for data backup and
    expanded storage capacity; and•increased use of multiple cost-optimized high performance hard
    drives in data-intensive applications such as Internet-based
    search engines and social media, as well as in hard drive
    intensive hosts for handheld computing devices.



Additionally, we believe that the demand for 2.5-inch hard
    drives has grown from approximately 16% of the overall hard
    drive market in calendar 2003 to 48% of the overall hard drive
    market in calendar 2009, driven by the growing markets for
    notebook and netbook computers, game consoles and external
    storage.



We design, develop and manufacture solid-state drives for the
    embedded systems market. We also develop products with
    solid-state drive technology for emerging consumer and
    commercial computing markets.



We also design, develop and manufacture
    WD®-branded

    media players for the retail channel. We believe there is a
    growing need for consumers to play their personal stored digital
    content and premium content from the Internet on their
    television and home theater system in connection with the
    growing trend in the digitization of rich content and data.



These factors and our product expansion strategy have gradually
    increased our percentage of net revenue derived from non-desktop
    sources. In 2010, 64% of our net revenue was from non-desktop
    sources compared to 62% in 2009 and 56% in 2008.



For an additional discussion of risks relating to the hard drive
    industry, please see Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Desktop
    PC Market



The desktop PC market consists of personal computers in a form
    intended for regular use at a single location. Individuals use
    desktop computers in homes, businesses and multi-user networks.
    Desktop computers use software applications for word processing,
    spreadsheet, desktop publishing, database management,
    multimedia, entertainment and for other needs. Hard drives store
    the desktop computer operating system and application software,
    as well as the data used by the applications.



We believe that the demand for hard drives in the desktop PC
    market has grown in part due to:



•growth in emerging markets;•recovery in the commercial market;•the overall growth of desktop computer sales;•the increasing needs of businesses and individuals for increased
    storage capacity on their desktop computers;•the continuing development of software applications to manage
    and create multimedia content; and•the increasing use of broadband Internet, including content
    downloaded from the Internet onto desktop computer hard drives.



We believe several other factors affect the rate of desktop
    computer unit growth, including growth of notebook and netbook
    computers, an increase in first-time buyers of desktop computers
    in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America,





maturing desktop PC markets in North America and Western Europe,
    and the lengthening of desktop computer replacement cycles.



Mobile PC
    Market



The mobile PC market consists primarily of notebook and netbook
    computers. Individuals use mobile computers both in and away
    from homes and businesses. Like desktop computers, mobile
    computers use software applications for various needs. Hard
    drives store the mobile computer operating system and
    application software, as well as the data used by the
    applications.



We believe that the demand for hard drives in the mobile PC
    market has grown in part due to:



•the overall growth of mobile sales, including increased
    transition from desktop computers to mobile computers;•the increased mobility of the workforce;•the increasing needs of businesses and individuals for increased
    storage capacity on their mobile computers;•the continuing development of software applications to manage
    multimedia content; and•the increasing use of broadband Internet, including content
    downloaded from the Internet onto mobile hard drives.



We expect the mobile PC market to continue to grow faster than
    the desktop or enterprise markets in the next five years. As the
    mobile PC market continues to evolve to a higher volume market,
    we believe customers are placing increased emphasis on
    attributes such as quality, availability, reliability,
    execution, flexibility, capacity, performance, power and the
    competitive cost structures of their hard drive suppliers. These
    are the same attributes that have been emphasized for many years
    by customers in the high-volume desktop PC market.



Enterprise
    Market



The enterprise market for hard drives includes workstations,
    servers, network attached storage, storage area networks, other
    computing systems or subsystems, network-communications and
    video surveillance. Hard drives for this market utilize three
    principal interfaces; Fibre Channel Arbitrated Loop
    (“FC-AL”); SAS interface technology; or SATA. SATA
    hard drives typically cost customers less than SAS or FC-AL hard
    drives while offering higher capacities and maintaining similar
    reliability, scalability and performance.



We believe that enterprise uses of SATA hard drives will
    continue to increase. During the past few years, a new
    application has emerged with high-capacity SATA hard drives
    augmenting FC-AL and SAS hard drives, tape and optical media.
    This application, popularly referred to as “near-line”
    storage, has created a growth market because SATA hard drives
    access data more quickly than tape or optical solutions, quickly
    retrieve criticalback-upor
    near-line data and are more cost effective than FC-AL and SAS
    hard drives. The low price per capacity of SATA drives has
    stimulated applications such as video surveillance, video
    editing/broadcasting and medical imaging. These applications
    represent segments of a growing market for high capacity storage
    in non-computing imaging and multimedia professions.



Enterprise-class SATA drives are becoming commonplace for
    IT infrastructure applications such as databases, scientific
    computing, surveillance, web content, web caching, web search
    engines and electronic mail. These applications have become an
    important market for high-capacity SATA hard drives. We believe
    that this market will consume a growing portion of the highest
    capacity hard drives in the next three years.



SATA technology is compatible with SAS technology, enabling
    customers the flexibility of incorporating SATA hard drives in
    SAS storage systems. We believe the units shipped in the
    enterprise-class SATA market was approximately 36% of the
    enterprise hard drive market in calendar 2009.



High-performance server applications, including blade servers,
    are increasingly using 2.5-inch form factor hard drives,
    supplanting traditional 3.5-inch drives. Smaller form factors
    enable more drives per physical space for increased performance,
    higher capacity per square foot and lower power consumption.
    This trend demonstrates the fragmentation of the enterprise hard
    drive market and the need for application-specific
    enterprise-class hard drives.





There is a trend towards centralization of information storage
    and delivery of Internet-based services through cloud computing.
    Cloud computing delivers shared resources, software and
    information to users on demand on a multitude of devices, such
    as client PCs and handheld computing devices. Most cloud
    computing models consist of services delivered through common
    data centers that utilize servers and hard drives designed for
    the enterprise market. The infrastructure to support cloud
    computing storage needs is driving the demand for both SAS and
    SATA enterprise-class hard drives.



Consumer
    Electronics Market



The use of hard drives in CE products has been a major growth
    area in recent years. Currently, the two largest segments of
    this market are:



•video content in applications such as DVRs; and•hard drives in game consoles.



DVRs are available for use in home entertainment systems and
    offer enhanced capabilities such as pausing live television,
    simplifying the process of recording and cataloging recorded
    television programs and quickly forwarding or returning to any
    section of a recorded television program. Additionally, digital
    video disk (“DVD”) recorders increasingly incorporate
    hard drives to allow for DVR functionality and faster recording
    of content onto removable DVDs. The market for these products
    favors larger capacity hard drives and continues to grow
    globally. We believe growth in this market will continue to
    build demand for higher capacity hard drives.



Game consoles are increasingly incorporating hard drives to
    improve the user experience. Hard drive technology enables users
    to save games, movies, music, pictures and other user generated
    content.



The proliferation in the CE market of more sophisticated mobile
    devices, including smartphones, portable media players and
    tablet computers, is driving the delivery of diverse content
    from hard drive intensive hosts. We believe this is one of the
    factors influencing increased sales of
    enterprise-class SATA drives. We also believe that
    multimedia handheld devices, such as video cameras and
    high-resolution still cameras, are enabling consumer production
    of expansive digital content that requires increasing amounts of
    small form-factor hard drive storage, as well as high-capacity
    desktop-class hard drives for editing, manipulation and
    long-term storage of such content.



External
    Hard Drive Market



Most new PC systems include high-speed external interfaces, such
    as USB 2.0, USB 3.0, external SATA,
    FireWiretmor Ethernet network connections, that permit users to supplement
    the storage space of their PC systems or home and small office
    networks with the use of external hard drives. Users store
    additional programs or multimedia content, and back up internal
    hard drives with external hard drives, as well as use mobile
    external hard drives for portability and security. External
    storage can often be the easiest, quickest or only way of adding
    additional storage capacity to either a desktop or notebook
    computer. We believe there is an increasing consumer awareness
    of the need and value of securely storing personal digital
    content through backup applications and devices. We believe
    there is a growing need for external storage as a way of
    expanding storage capacity in CE devices such as DVRs. We also
    believe there is a growing need for media players that enable
    consumers to play digital movies and music, view photos, and
    access the Internet, otherwise limited to being viewed on
    computer screens, from USB mass storage devices on their
    television or home theater system.



Solid-State
    Drive Market



The solid-state drive market consists primarily of solid-state
    drives which use semiconductor, non-volatile media that retains
    data even when power is not applied using either single-level
    cell or multilevel cell NAND media.



We believe that the demand for solid-state drives in certain
    markets has grown in part due to:



•the increasing performance, measured by input/output per second,
    in enterprise applications;•the increasing premium performance applications in the desktop
    and notebook markets; and•the increasing requirements of the embedded systems market for
    high durability and long life cycles.







We expect the solid-state drive market to grow faster on a
    compounded annual growth rate basis than the hard drive market
    over the next four years, but will still remain a small portion
    of the total storage market on a unit basis.



Other
    Market Opportunities



We regularly review opportunities to apply our knowledge of data
    storage technology to markets that we do not currently serve.
    Based on significant investments we made over the last six
    years, we believe we have the technology building blocks to
    increase our overall market penetration and be a full-line hard
    drive supplier. Consistent with our measured and deliberate
    approach to new market entries in the recent past, our approach
    to additional new markets will be based on a careful assessment
    of the risks, rewards, requirements and profit potential of such
    actions.



Products



We offer a broad line of hard drives designed for various
    markets. We market our hard drives under brand names including
    WD
    Caviar®,

    WD RE, WD
    VelociRaptor®,

    WD
    Scorpio®,

    WD
    Elementstm,

    WD AV, WD
    ShareSpacetm,

    WD S25, My
    Passport®,

    My
    Book®,

    and My DVR
    Expandertm.

    These hard drives service the desktop PC, mobile PC, enterprise,
    CE and external hard drive markets, and can be found in products
    including desktop computers, notebook computers, enterprise
    storage, server, workstations, video surveillance equipment,
    networking products, DVRs, STBs and external storage appliances.
    We also offer a line of
    WD®-branded

    media players under the WD
    TVtmbrand name, as well as a line of solid-state drives under the
    SiliconDrive®and
    SiliconEdge®brand names.



Desktop
    Hard Drive Products



The hard drives we design for the desktop PC market currently
    consist of 3.5-inch form factor products with capacities ranging
    from 80 GB to 2 TB. These products utilize either the EIDE or
    SATA interfaces, providing high performance while retaining ease
    of use and overall low cost of connection. The type of EIDE
    interface currently used in our hard drives is ATA/100, which
    signifies a burst data transfer rate of 100 megabytes per
    second, which is the maximum specified data transition that can
    be sustained under ideal conditions. The SATA interface
    available in the majority of our hard drives enables burst
    transfer rates of up to 6 gigabits (Gb) per second.



Mobile
    Hard Drive Products



Our hard drives used in mobile products typically include
    2.5-inch form factor products with capacities ranging from 80 GB
    to 1 TB. Unit shipments into the mobile PC market currently
    represents the largest market for hard drives. Our product
    expansion, including a high-performance hard drive spinning at
    7,200 RPM and producing ultra-high capacities for specific
    applications with a three platter platform, has enabled us to
    provide customers with a full-line of 2.5-inch mobile drives and
    helped us enhance our market position in this fast-growing
    market.



Enterprise
    Hard Drive Products



We offer multiple product lines to address enterprise market
    needs, including:



•the WD S25 drive, which provides up to 300 GB of storage
    suitable for both mission-critical enterprise server and
    enterprise storage applications, as well as data centers and
    large data arrays;•the WD
    VelociRaptor®drive, which is a 600 GB, 10,000 RPM, 2.5-inch enterprise-class
    drive with the SATA interface for enterprise applications
    requiring high performance and high reliability;•the
    WD®RE family of drives, with capacities ranging from 160 GB to 2
    TB. The
    WD®RE family serves the SATA market and has enhanced reliability
    features and ratings when contrasted to our desktop
    products; and•low-power versions of the
    WD®RE family of drives featuring WD GreenPower
    Technologytm,

    which reduces power consumption as much as 40 percent
    compared with standard hard drives. Lower power consumption
    reduces total cost of ownership for our customers by cutting
    energy costs and lowering operating temperatures, which
    contributes to longer reliability.



WD S25, WD
    VelociRaptortmand
    WD®RE drives may be used in, but are not limited to, applications
    such as databases,e-commerceand super computing in life science, oil and gas and similar
    industries, business records





management,e-mail,file
    serving, web serving, near-line storage, medical records,
    engineering data management, video broadcasting and video
    security. The WD
    VelociRaptortmalso has been popular for use in the high-end desktop PC market
    for applications including gaming, servers and advanced CAD/CAM
    (computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing) systems.



Consumer
    Electronics Products



We offer a line of hard drives under the
    WD®AV brand that are designed for use in products such as DVRs,
    STBs, karaoke systems, multi-function printers and gaming
    systems.
    WD®AV drives deliver the characteristics CE manufacturers seek
    most, which are quiet operation, low operating temperature, low
    power consumption specifications, high reliability and optimized
    streaming capabilities. We also offer low-power
    WD®AV drive models that feature the WD GreenPower
    Technologytm.

    Lower power consumption in our
    WD®AV drives results in cooler operation, which enhances long-term
    reliability. Our WD GreenPower
    Technologytmalso quiets drive operation, which is an important attribute for
    our CE customers.



Branded
    Products



We sell a broad line of
    WD®-branded

    hard drive-based storage appliances, which are internal drives
    embedded into PC peripheral-style enclosures that have USB 2.0,
    USB 3.0, external SATA,
    FireWiretmand Ethernet network connections and include software that
    assists customers with back up, remote access and management of
    digital content. We sell these branded storage appliances, as
    well as related adapters and accessories, through retail store
    fronts, online stores and distributors. These include:



•the 3.5-inch hard drive-based My
    Book®family of storage appliances, which are designed to reside on
    desktops as PC peripherals, as well as be connected to networks,
    and to simplify storage for mainstream consumers, and offer from
    500 GB to 4 TB of capacity;•the 3.5-inch My DVR
    Expandertmseries of external SATA (“eSATA”) and USB 2.0 storage
    appliances, which adds recording time to STBs with DVR
    capability. In addition, My
    Book®AV DVR Expander also allows for the transfer and storage of
    videos from certain camcorders;•the WD
    ShareSpacetmnetwork-attached storage system, which offers capacities as high
    as 8 TB for home office or small office applications;•the 2.5-inch hard drive-based My
    Passporttmand WD
    ElementstmPortable series of USB 2.0 and
    FireWiretmstorage devices, which, weighing less than one-half of a pound,
    offer from 250 GB to 1 TB of portable storage capacity. In
    addition, My
    PassporttmAV also allows for the transfer and storage of videos from
    certain camcorders; and•3.5-inch and 2.5-inch internal hard drives packaged with PC
    installation kits under the
    WD®brand for retail store sales.



We also sell a line of
    WD®-branded

    media players which are devices that enable users to play
    digital movies, music and photos from any of our
    WD®-branded

    external hard drives, other USB mass storage devices or the
    Internet, on a television or home theater system, independent of
    the PC. Our media players provide rich, high-definition playback
    and navigation up to 1080p, multiple ports to connect to
    multiple mass storage devices and access them simultaneously,
    high-definition multimedia interface ports to connect to the
    highest quality HDTV or home theater system and composite
    outputs to ensure compatibility with virtually all television
    sets.



Solid-State
    Drive Products



We offer a line of solid-state drives under the
    SiliconDrive®and WD
    SiliconEdge®brands that provide advanced storage technologies for the
    embedded systems and client PC markets. Our
    SiliconDrive®product family consists of 2.5-inch, Compact Flash
    (“CF”) and other small form factors with capacities
    ranging from 32 megabytes (“MB”) to 120 GB,
    interfaces that include SATA and Parallel Advanced Technology
    Attachment (“PATA”)/EIDE/CF and read/write speeds of
    up to 100/80 MB per second. Our
    SiliconDrive®products address the stringent embedded systems market
    requirements and ensure data integrity, eliminate unscheduled
    downtime, protect application data and software and provide for
    data





security and protection through our patented and patent-pending
    PowerArmor®,

    SiSMART®,

    SolidStor®,

    SiSecuretmand
    LifeESTtmtechnologies. Our WD
    SiliconEdge®product family consists of 2.5-inch form factors, with
    capacities ranging from 64 GB to 256 GB, SATA interfaces, and
    read/write speeds of up to 250/170 MB per second. Our WD
    SiliconEdge®products are designed for both read-intensive client and
    consumer applications and write-intensive OEM applications. They
    also feature both multi-level cell and single-level cell
    semiconductor media as well as patented and patent-pending
    technologies, such as advanced wear-leveling, error correction
    control, and industry standard performance optimization commands
    such as TRIM and Native Command Queuing to ensure maximum drive
    performance and endurance with easy plug and play compatibility.



Research
    and Development



We devote substantial resources to development of new products
    and improvement of existing products. We focus our engineering
    efforts on coordinating our product design and manufacturing
    processes to bring our products to market in a cost-effective
    and timely manner. Research and development expenses totaled
    $611 million, $509 million and $464 million in
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



Fiscal 2010 represented the ninth consecutive year of
    substantial growth in our research and development spending to
    support the significant broadening of our product and technology
    portfolios. Consistently over that nine-year period, we grew our
    research and development spending 441% from $113 million in
    fiscal 2001 to $611 million in fiscal 2010. As a result of
    this investment activity, we continue to expand our business
    beyond the desktop PC market into newer markets or markets in
    which we have not previously participated. Such investments have
    allowed us to execute against our strategic objective of revenue
    diversification to address the growth of new applications for
    hard drives and fast-growing new market opportunities.



For an additional discussion of risks related to our development
    of new products, see Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Technology
    and Product Development



Hard drives record, store and retrieve digital data. Performance
    attributes of hard drives, such as their ability to access and
    transmit data and storage capacity, are currently better than
    removable disks, optical hard drives and tapes, and they are
    more cost-effective than semiconductor technology. The primary
    measures of hard drive performance include:



•“Acoustics” — which is the sound power
    emitted during hard drive operation, commonly expressed in
    decibels, and perceived loudness due to sound pressure, commonly
    expressed in sones.•“Data transfer rate” — which is the
    sustained rate of data transfer to and from the disk, commonly
    expressed in gigabits per second. One gigabit equals one billion
    bits.•“Seek time” — which is the time needed to
    position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface,
    commonly expressed in milliseconds.•“Spindle rotation speed” — which is the
    nominal rotation speed of the disks inside the hard drive,
    commonly expressed in RPM or latency. Spindle rotation speeds
    commonly stated as 5,400, 7,200 and 10,000 RPM are sometimes
    approximations.•“Storage capacity” — which is the amount of
    data that can be stored on the hard drive, commonly expressed in
    GB or TB. As defined in the hard drive industry, one GB equals
    one billion bytes and one TB equals one trillion bytes. A byte
    is a digital character, typically comprised of eight bits. A bit
    is a binary digit, the smallest unit of information in a digital
    system.•“Power Consumption” — which is the amount of
    electricity required to operate the drive, measured in watts.



All of our hard drive products employ similar technology. The
    main components of the hard drive are a Head-Disk-Assembly
    (“HDA”) and a Printed Circuit Board Assembly
    (“PCBA”).



HDA: The HDA includes heads, magnetic media, head positioning
    mechanism (“actuator”) and spindle motor. A rigid base
    and top cover contain these components in a
    contamination-controlled environment. One or more disks
    positioned around a motor-driven spindle hub that rotates the
    disks comprise the disk-pack assembly. The disk is made





up of a smooth substrate on which thin layers of magnetic
    materials are deposited. The head stack assembly
    (“HSA”) is comprised of a magnetic positioner, a
    pivot-arm module, on which the individual heads are mounted.
    Each disk has a head suspended directly above it, which can read
    data from or write data to the spinning disk.



PCBA: The PCBA includes both standard and custom integrated
    circuits, an interface connector to the host computer and a
    power connector. The integrated circuits on the printed circuit
    board typically include a drive interface and a controller. The
    drive interface receives instructions from the host computer,
    while the controller directs the flow of data to or from the
    disks and controls the heads. The location of data on each disk
    is logically maintained in concentric tracks divided into
    sectors. The host computer sends instructions to the controller
    to read data from or write data to the disks, based on logical
    track and sector locations. Guided by instructions from the
    controller, the HSA pivots in an arc across the disk until it
    reaches the selected track of a disk, where the data is recorded
    or retrieved.



Industry-standard interfaces allow the hard drive to communicate
    with the computer. Currently, the primary interfaces for PCs are
    PATA and SATA. The primary interfaces for enterprise systems are
    SATA, and the following, which we refer to as traditional
    enterprise: SCSI, SAS and FC-AL. As computer performance
    continues to improve, the hard drive will need to deliver
    information faster. We believe this will continue to drive the
    transition of the PC industry to higher speed interfaces, such
    as SATA and SAS, to facilitate the higher data transfer rates.
    We currently offer the SATA interface on our WD
    Caviar®,

    WD
    Scorpio®,

    WD®RE, WD
    VelociRaptor®and
    WD®AV hard drive families; the PATA interface on WD
    Caviar®,

    WD
    Scorpio®and
    WD®AV

    hard drive families; and the SAS interface on the WD S25 hard
    drive family.



The number of disks and each disk’s areal density (track
    density multiplied by bit density), which is a measure of the
    amount of data that can be stored on the recording surface of
    the disk per unit area, determines storage capacity of the hard
    drive. The higher the areal density, the more information can be
    stored on a single platter. Achieving a given drive capacity
    requires fewer disks and heads as the areal density increases,
    potentially reducing product costs over time through reduced
    component requirements. In September 2009, we began shipping our
    WD
    Caviar®Blacktm3.5-inch 2 TB drives at 500 GB per platter areal density. In
    March 2010, we began shipping our WD
    Scorpio®Bluetm2.5-inch 750 GB drives at 375 GB per platter areal density.



Head technology is one of the key components affecting areal
    density. The hard drive industry has transitioned from the use
    of longitudinal magnetic recording (“LMR”) head
    technology for the head writer function to perpendicular
    magnetic recording (“PMR”) technology, which allows
    for significantly higher storage capacities. In addition, the
    industry has made the transition to tunnel-junction magneto
    resistive (“TMR”) technology for the head reader
    function. We have completed the transition to PMR and TMR across
    all of our product platforms.



With the transition to PMR, magnetic media plays a much more
    important role in achieving higher areal density. PMR demands a
    much tighter interaction and matching between head and magnetic
    media designs. We are vertically integrated in the two most
    important technology components of hard drives (heads and
    magnetic media), which has enabled us to achieve a more optimum
    design and utilization of these components.



We invest considerable resources in research and development,
    manufacturing infrastructure and capital equipment of head and
    magnetic media components, in order to secure our competitive
    position and cost structure.



Solid-state drives record, store and retrieve digital data
    without any moving parts. Attributes, such as fast read/write
    speeds, low power consumption and robust durability offer
    greater performance than hard drives in some storage
    applications but are currently much more costly per GB and are
    available in much lower capacity points than hard drives. The
    main components of a solid-state drive are thesystem-on-chipand semiconductor media. The capacity of a solid-state drive is
    based on the total number of MB or GB of semiconductor media in
    the solid-state drive. Industry-standard storage interface
    protocols, such as SATA, PATA/CF and USB 2.0, allow the
    solid-state drive to communicate with the host system.



The
    WD®product lines generally leverage a common platform for various
    products within product families with different capacities to
    serve differing market needs. This platform strategy results in
    commonality of components across different products within
    product families and, in some cases, across product families,
    which reduces exposure to changes in demand, facilitates
    inventory management and allows us to achieve lower costs
    through purchasing economies. This platform strategy also
    enables our customers to leverage their qualification efforts
    onto successive product models.





For an additional discussion of risks related to technological
    innovations, see Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Sales and
    Distribution



We sell our products globally to OEMs, ODMs, distributors and
    retailers. OEMs purchase our products, either directly or
    through a contract manufacturer such as an ODM, and assemble
    them into the computer or CE systems they build. Distributors
    typically sell our products to non-direct customers such as
    small computer and CE manufacturers, dealers, systems
    integrators, online retailers and other resellers. Retailers
    typically sell our products directly to end-users through their
    storefront or online facilities.



Original
    Equipment Manufacturers



Sales to OEMs, which include sales through ODMs, accounted for
    51%, 54% and 51% of our net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. For 2010 and 2008, no single customer accounted
    for 10% or more of our net revenue. For 2009, sales to Dell Inc.
    accounted for 10% of our net revenue. We believe that our
    success depends on our ability to maintain and improve our
    strong relationships with the leading OEMs.



OEMs evaluate and select their hard drive and solid-state drive
    suppliers based on a number of factors, including quality and
    reliability, storage capacities, performance characteristics,
    price, service and support, ease of doing business and the
    supplier’s long-term financial stability. OEMs typically
    seek to qualify two or more providers for each generation of
    products, and once an OEM has chosen its qualified vendors for a
    given product, it generally will purchase products from those
    vendors for the life of that product. To achieve success with
    OEM qualifications, a supplier must consistently offer products
    featuring leading technology, quality and reliability at
    acceptable capacity. Suppliers must quickly achieve volume
    production of each new generation of high quality and reliable
    hard drives or solid-state drives, requiring access to flexible,
    high-capacity, high-quality manufacturing capabilities.



Many of our OEM customers utilizejust-in-timeinventory management processes or supply chain business models
    that combine“build-to-order,”in which they do not build until there is a firm order, and
    “contract manufacturing,” in which the OEM contracts
    assembly work to a contract manufacturer, such as an ODM, who
    purchases components and assembles the computer based on the
    OEM’s instructions. For certain OEMs, we maintain a base
    stock of finished goods inventory in facilities located near or
    adjacent to the OEM’s operations.



For an additional discussion of risks related to our need to
    adapt to our customers’ business models and maintain
    customer satisfaction, refer to Item 1A of this Annual
    Report onForm 10-K.



Distributors



We use a broad group of distributors to sell our products to
    non-direct customers such as small computer and CE
    manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators, online retailers
    and other resellers. Distributors accounted for approximately
    31%, 26% and 31% of our net revenue for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Distributors generally enter into non-exclusive
    agreements for specific territories with us for the purchase and
    redistribution of our products in those territories. We grant
    our distributors limited price protection.



Retailers



We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major
    retailers such as computer superstores, warehouse clubs, online
    retailers, and computer electronics stores, and authorize sales
    through distributors to smaller retailers. Retailers accounted
    for approximately 18%, 20% and 18% of our net revenue for 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. The retail channel complements our
    other sales channels while helping to build brand awareness for
    WD and our products. Retailers supply end-users with our
    products to upgrade their computers, externally store their data
    for backup or mobility purposes and play their stored digital
    content or content accessed over the Internet on their
    television or home theater systems. We grant our retailers
    limited price protection. We also sell our branded products
    through our Web site.





Sales and
    Marketing



We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world
    including the major geographies of the Americas, Asia Pacific,
    Europe and the Middle East. Our international sales, which
    include sales to foreign subsidiaries of United States
    (“U.S.”) companies but do not include sales to
    U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies, represented 81%,
    80% and 76% of our net revenue for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Sales to international customers may be subject to
    certain risks not normally encountered in domestic operations,
    including exposure to tariffs and various trade regulations. For
    an additional discussion regarding the risks related to sales to
    international customers, see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    onForm 10-K.



For additional information concerning revenue recognition, sales
    by geographic region and major customer information, see
    Part II, Item 8, Notes 1 and 6 in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual
    Report onForm 10-K.



We perform our marketing and advertising functions internally
    and through outside firms. We target advertising, worldwide
    packaging and marketing materials to various reseller and
    end-user categories. We utilize both consumer media and trade
    publications. We have programs under which we reimburse
    qualified distributors and retailers for certain marketing
    expenditures. We also maintain customer relationships by
    communicating with our resellers and providing end-users with
    information and support through our Web site.



Competition



We compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives for use
    in desktop, notebook, enterprise, CE and external storage
    products. Our competitors in the hard drive market include
    companies such as Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Samsung
    Electronics Co. Ltd., Seagate Technology and Toshiba Corporation.



The hard drive industry is intensely competitive, with hard
    drive suppliers competing for sales to a limited number of major
    customers. Hard drives manufactured by different competitors are
    highly substitutable due to the industry mandate of technical
    form, fit and function standards. Hard drive manufacturers
    compete on the basis of product quality and reliability, storage
    capacity, unit price, product performance, production volume
    capabilities, delivery capability, leadership intime-to-market,time-to-volumeandtime-to-quality,service and support and ease of doing business. The relative
    importance of these factors varies by customer and market. We
    believe that we are generally competitive in all of these
    factors.



We believe that there are no substantial barriers for existing
    competitors to offer competing products. Therefore, we believe
    that we cannot differentiate
    WD®hard drive products solely on attributes such as storage
    capacity, buffer size ortime-to-market.Accordingly, we differentiate WD by focusing on operational
    excellence, high product quality and reliability, and designing
    and incorporating into our hard drives desirable product
    performance attributes. Such performance attributes include seek
    times, data transfer rates, intelligent caching, failure
    prediction, remote diagnostics, acoustics, error recovery, low
    operating temperature, low power consumption and optimized
    streaming capabilities.



In addition, we differentiate WD by emphasizing non-product
    related attributes, including rapid response to our customers.
    Rapid response requires accelerated design cycles, customer
    delivery, production flexibility and timely service and support,
    which contribute to customer satisfaction. We also rely on the
    strength of the WD brand name with value-added resellers,
    retailers and solution providers to whom we sell our hard drive
    products directly and indirectly. We believe that trust in a
    manufacturer’s reputation, its execution track record and
    the establishment of strategic relationships have become
    important factors in the selection of a hard drive, particularly
    in a rapidly changing technology environment.



Advances in magnetic, optical or other data storage technologies
    could result in competitive products with better performance or
    lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. We monitor
    the advantages, disadvantages and advances of the full array of
    storage technologies on an ongoing basis.



High-speed semiconductor media competes with hard drive products
    in some applications, such as consumer handheld devices and
    portable external storage. Semiconductor media is much faster in
    some applications than magnetic hard drives, but currently is
    not competitive in most applications using 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch
    form factor hard drives from a cost standpoint. Flash memory, a
    non-volatile semiconductor media, is currently much more costly
    and, while it





has higher “read” performance attributes than hard
    drives, it has lower “write” performance attributes.
    Flash memory could become more competitive in the near future
    for additional applications requiring less storage capacity than
    that provided by hard drives. However, we believe that the
    traditional high-volume computing markets will remain the domain
    of 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch hard drives based on the hard drive
    industry’s attributes of reliability, availability, storage
    capacity and cost.



Our competitors in the external hard drive market include
    companies such as EMC Corporation, Hitachi Global Storage
    Technologies, LaCie S.A., Melco Holdings Inc. and Seagate
    Technology. Our competitors in the solid-state drive market
    include companies such as Intel Corporation, Micron Technology,
    Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Smart Modular Technologies,
    Inc. and STEC, Inc. Our competitors in the media player retail
    market include companies such as Apple Inc., EMC Corporation,
    LaCie S.A., Roku, Inc. and Seagate Technology.



For an additional discussion of risks related to competition,
    see Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Seasonality



We have historically experienced seasonal fluctuations in our
    business with higher levels of demand in the first and second
    quarters of our fiscal year. This seasonality is a result of
    consumer spending at the beginning of the school year and during
    the holiday season.



Service
    and Warranty



We generally warrant our newly manufactured products against
    defects in materials and workmanship from one to five years from
    the date of manufacture depending on the type of product. Our
    warranty obligation is generally limited to repair or
    replacement. We have engaged third parties in various countries
    in multiple regions, including Africa, Asia Pacific, Australia,
    Europe, India, Latin America, the Middle East and North America,
    to provide various levels of testing, processingand/orrecertification of returned products for our customers.



Manufacturing



We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product
    manufacturing processes, execution skills and human resources to
    continue to be successful and have the ability to grow, as
    necessary, our manufacturing operations. To be competitive, we
    must manufacture high quality hard drives with industry leadingtime-to-volumeproduction at competitive unit costs. We strive to maintain
    manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing yields, reliable
    products, and high-quality components that we manufacture
    ourselves, while insisting that our suppliers provide
    high-quality components at competitive prices. The critical
    elements of our hard drive production are high volume and
    utilization, low cost assembly and testing, and establishment
    and maintenance of key supplier relationships. By establishing
    close relationships with our strategic component suppliers, we
    believe we accessbest-of-classtechnology and manufacturing quality. In addition, we believe
    that our sourcing strategy currently enables us to have the
    business flexibility needed to select the highest quality, low
    cost of ownership suppliers as product designs and technologies
    evolve.



Hard drive manufacturing is a complex process involving the
    assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and
    thorough testing. The assembly process occurs in a “clean
    room” environment that demands skill in process engineering
    and efficient space utilization to control the operating costs
    of this manufacturing environment. Our clean room manufacturing
    process consists of modular production units, each of which
    contains a number of work cells.



We manufacture hard drives in Malaysia and Thailand. We
    continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort to
    increase productivity, sustain and improve quality and decrease
    manufacturing costs. We continually evaluate which steps in the
    manufacturing process would benefit from automation and how
    automated manufacturing processes can improve productivity and
    reduce manufacturing costs.



We use our wafer fabrication facilities in Fremont, California
    and our slider fabrication facility in Bang Pa-In, Thailand, to
    design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and
    head gimbal assemblies (“HGAs”) we include in the hard
    drives we manufacture.





We have magnetic media and substrate design and manufacturing
    facilities in Malaysia. We also have a magnetic media design and
    manufacturing facility in Singapore. We use these facilities to
    design and manufacture most of the magnetic media and substrates
    that we use in our products.



We leverage the efficiencies of contract manufacturers when
    strategically advantageous.



For an additional discussion of risks related to manufacturing,
    see Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Materials
    and Supplies



The following products are the major components currently used
    in the manufacture of our hard drives:



•magnetic heads and magnetic media;•suspensions with related HGAs and HSAs;•spindle motors;•custom and standard electronics such assystem-on-chip,magnetic media, motor controllers,pre-ampsand
    printed circuit boards;•base and top covers; and•magnets and related voice coil motors.



We also use several other components in our hard drives such as
    seals, filters, plastic molded parts, capacitors, resistors,
    connectors and cables.



We design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and
    magnetic media required for the hard drives we manufacture. We
    purchase a portion of these components from third party
    suppliers. We acquire all of the remaining components for our
    products from third party suppliers.



The major components used in the manufacture of our solid-state
    drives (the semiconductor media andsystem-on-chip)and in our media player (the controller) are acquired from third
    party suppliers.



We generally retain multiple suppliers for each of our component
    requirements but in some instances use sole sources for business
    reasons. We believe that components are generally available.



For an additional discussion of risks related to our component
    supplies, see Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Backlog



A substantial portion of our orders are generally for shipments
    within 30 to 60 days of the placement of the order. We
    generally negotiate pricing, order lead times, product support
    requirements and other terms and conditions before receiving a
    customer’s first purchase order for a product.
    Customers’ purchase orders typically may be canceled with
    relatively short notice to us, with little or no cost to the
    customer, or modified by customers to provide for delivery at a
    later date. In addition, we make many of our sales to OEMs underjust-in-timedelivery contracts that do not generally require firm order
    commitments by the customer until the time of sale. Instead, we
    receive a periodic forecast of requirements from the customer
    and invoice the customer upon shipment of the product from thejust-in-timewarehouse. Therefore, backlog information as of the end of a
    particular period is not necessarily indicative of future levels
    of our revenue and profit and may not be comparable to earlier
    periods.



Patents,
    Licenses and Proprietary Information



We own numerous patents and have many patent applications in
    process. We believe that, although our patents and patent
    applications have considerable value, the successful
    manufacturing and marketing of our products depends primarily
    upon the technical and managerial competence of our staff.
    Accordingly, the patents held and applied for do not ensure our
    future success.





In addition to patent protection of certain intellectual
    property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and
    processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that
    our non-patented intellectual property, particularly some of our
    process technology, is an important factor in our success. We
    rely upon non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions
    and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary
    information. Despite these safeguards, there is a risk that
    competitors may obtain and use such information. The laws of
    foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business may provide
    less protection for confidential information than the U.S.



We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties
    to manufacture and sell WD products. We believe that we have
    adequate cross-licenses and other agreements in place in
    addition to our own intellectual property portfolio to compete
    successfully in the hard drive industry. For additional
    discussion of risks related to our ownership and use of
    intellectual property, see Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Environmental
    Regulation



We are subject to a variety of regulations in connection with
    our operations. We believe that we have obtained or are in the
    process of obtaining all necessary environmental permits for our
    operations. For additional discussion of risks related to
    environmental regulation, see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    onForm 10-K.



Employees



As of July 2, 2010, we employed a total of approximately
    62,500 employees worldwide. This represents an increase in
    headcount of approximately 36% since July 3, 2009 and an
    increase of approximately 25% since June 27, 2008. Many of
    our employees are highly skilled, and our continued success
    depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain such
    employees. Accordingly, we offer employee benefit programs,
    which we believe are, in the aggregate, competitive with those
    offered by our competitors. We and most of our competitors
    nevertheless have difficulty at times hiring and retaining
    certain skilled employees. We have engaged consultants and
    contract personnel to fill these needs until full-time employees
    could be recruited. We consider our employee relations to be
    good. For additional discussion of risks related to our skilled
    employees, see Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Available
    Information



We maintain an Internet Web site at www.westerndigital.com. Our
    Annual Report onForm 10-K,Quarterly Reports onForm 10-Q,Current Reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, are available on our Web site at
    www.westerndigital.com, free of charge, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with,
    or furnishing of these reports to, the SEC. Any materials we
    file with the SEC are available at the SEC’s Public
    Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
    20549. Additional information about the operation of the Public
    Reference Room can also be obtained by calling the SEC at1-800-SEC-0330.In addition, the SEC maintains a Web site at www.sec.gov that
    contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
    information regarding issuers that file electronically with the
    SEC, including us.



Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



Listed below are all of our executive officers as of
    July 2, 2010, followed by a brief account of their business
    experience during the past five years. Executive officers are
    normally appointed annually by the Board of Directors at a
    meeting of the directors immediately following the Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders. There are no family relationships among
    these officers nor any arrangements or understandings between
    any officer and any other person pursuant to which an officer
    was selected.



NameAgePositionJohn F. Coyne60President and Chief Executive OfficerTimothy M. Leyden58Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMartin W. Finkbeiner51Executive Vice President, OperationsRaymond M. Bukaty52Senior Vice President, Administration, General Counsel and
    Secretary











Mr. Coyne, 60, has been a director since October 2006. He
    joined us in 1983 and has served in various executive
    capacities. From November 2002 until June 2005, Mr. Coyne
    served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, from June
    2005 until September 2005, he served as Executive Vice
    President, Worldwide Operations and from November 2005 until
    June 2006, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief
    Operations Officer. Effective June 2006, he was named President
    and Chief Operating Officer. In January 2007, he became
    President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Coyne is a
    director of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.



Mr. Leyden, 58, re-joined us in May 2007 as Executive Vice
    President, Finance, and was promoted to Executive Vice President
    and Chief Financial Officer in September 2007. From December
    2001 to May 2007, Mr. Leyden served in senior finance
    capacities at Sage Software Inc. and Sage Software of
    California, subsidiaries of Sage Group PLC, a U.K. public
    company that supplies accounting and business management
    software to small and medium-sized businesses, including as Vice
    President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer from December
    2001 to May 2004 and as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief
    Financial Officer from May 2004 to May 2007. Mr. Leyden
    previously served in various worldwide finance, manufacturing
    and information technology capacities with us from 1983 to
    December 2000.



Mr. Finkbeiner, 51, joined us in 1992 and has served in
    various positions in program management, operations,
    engineering, and customer satisfaction. From October 2005
    through November 2009, Mr. Finkbeiner served as Senior Vice
    President, Hard Drive Development. In November 2009 he was
    appointed to the position of Executive Vice President,
    Operations.



Mr. Bukaty, 52, joined us in 1999 as Vice President,
    Corporate Law. He was appointed to Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary in March 2002, and to Senior Vice
    President in January 2004, and assumed his current position as
    Senior Vice President, Administration, General Counsel and
    Secretary in October 2004. In July 2010, Mr. Bukaty
    announced his intention to retire from the Company, effective
    October 1, 2010.



