Item 1.Business

General

We are an industry-leading developer and manufacturer of storage
products that enable people to create, manage, experience and preserve digital content. We design and make storage devices, networking equipment and home entertainment products under the WD, HGST and G-Technology brands. We serve each of the primary
markets addressing storage opportunities — enterprise and cloud data centers, client, consumer electronics, backup, the internet and other emerging markets such as automotive and home and small office networking.

We operate our global business through two independent subsidiaries due to regulatory requirements—WD and HGST, both long-time
innovators in the storage industry.

Our principal products today are hard drives that use one or more rotating magnetic disks
(“magnetic media”) to store and allow fast access to data. Hard drives are today’s primary storage medium for digital content. Our hard drives are used in desktop and notebook computers, corporate and multiple types of data centers,
home entertainment equipment and stand-alone consumer storage devices. Our other products include solid-state drives, home entertainment and networking products and software applications for smart phones and tablets.

We have achieved 10 years of consistent profitable growth, with revenues up 19% and earnings per share up 34% on a compounded annual
growth rate basis.

We have one of the industry’s largest patent portfolios with more than 6,000 active patents
worldwide.

WD was founded in 1970 as a specialized semiconductor manufacturer and is headquartered in Irvine, California.
Since entering the storage industry in 1988, WD has been a technology standard-setter in the industry’s highest volume markets. Its reliable, high-performance hard drives and solid state drives are deployed in a wide range of computing,
embedded systems and consumer electronics (“CE”) applications, as well as in its own storage systems as the center of the connected home and in small business markets. WD also connects people with their content through WD branded network
products, media players and software solutions.

HGST, known as Hitachi Global Storage Technologies before its acquisition by
Western Digital in March, 2012, was founded in 2003 through the combination of the hard drive businesses of IBM, the inventor of the hard drive, and Hitachi, Ltd (“Hitachi”), and is headquartered in San Jose, California. HGST develops
advanced hard drives, providing high value storage for a broad range of host systems in the enterprise, cloud, personal computing, CE markets; enterprise-class solid state drives and innovative external storage solutions used to store, preserve and
manage the world’s most valued data. For a further description of our acquisition of HGST in March 2012, see “Acquisition” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The global market for digital data storage devices is growing, driven by several factors including:



•Proliferation of data. The proliferation of consumer electronics and computing devices is driving rapid growth in the creation, sharing
and retention of high definition video, high resolution images, e-mail and large data files. Recognizing these trends, we believe that the annual growth of petabytes stored will be approximately 33% between calendar 2011 and calendar 2016.



•Evolution in data access and distribution.Increasing demand for data access and distribution anytime and anywhere, facilitated by
rapidly improving network accessibility and higher bandwidth, is powering a dramatic increase in the need for data storage at both the local storage level and in the off-site, network-accessed or “cloud” level.



•Advancements in storage devices. Technological improvements in the capacity, size, performance, connectivity and power requirements of
storage devices continue to meet the demand for higher density and higher performance storage.







•Rapid growth in consumers’ useof mobile computing and storage and use of digital content in the home.



•Adoption of tiered storage architectures. With the significant increase in data storage demand, enterprises are adopting tiered storage
architectures to improve storage performance and manage the costs of this growth. Tiered storage architecture optimizes data storage to the most appropriate storage device, driving increasing demand for high capacity and high performance hard
drives, as well as flash-based solid state storage.

WD and HGST have strong and collaborative relationships
with the full range of customers who are addressing these opportunities. These include personal computer (“PC”) and Mac™ providers, storage subsystem suppliers, and Internet and social media infrastructure players. We sell our
products to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), distributors, resellers and consumers. WD has a strong brand and heritage with consumers with our WD Branded Products business; HGST enjoys the same with Mac™ users through our
G-Technology branded products.

We believe we are at the forefront of helping our customers meet the
evolving storage needs of end users. Examples of these efforts include low-profile hard drives to address the emerging thin and light UltrabookTMPC market — our Connected Home innovations and our SSD drives for the high performance enterprise market. In
addition, WD and HGST are both leading providers of enterprise-class hard drives that serve the fast-growing cloud computing market for storage.

Business Strategy

Our focused business strategy is to be an
industry-leading developer and manufacturer of storage products that enable people to create, manage, experience and preserve digital content. We strive to achieve our business strategy through these elements:



•provide compelling, high quality storage products with effective technology deployment, high efficiency, flexibility and speed; and



•strategically align our investments in profitable and growing markets such as mobility and cloud computing.

We believe our strategy provides these benefits:



•distinguishes us in the dynamic and competitive storage industry;



•provides value to our suppliers, employees, customers and shareholders;



•allows us to achieve consistent financial performance, including strong returns on invested capital and cash flow generation; and



•provides continued diversification of our storage product portfolio and entry into additional growing adjacent markets.

Industry

Storage
continues to be critical to the large amounts of digital content being created; we believe that the volume of petabytes stored will grow approximately 33% annually from calendar 2011 to calendar 2016.

The PC market, including notebook and desktop PCs, comprises the client market, the highest volume market for our products. In calendar
2011, the PC market represented 73% of our unit shipments.

Increasingly, data storage needs are being driven by mobile and
cloud-based applications such as video, photography and audio on tablets, smart phones and other handheld devices. The growth in the number of computing users in the world is unabated, creating more usage and more digital content to be stored. Cloud
computing applications are especially noteworthy given that they create multiple copies of photos, videos and other content to ensure efficient distribution and security.







We believe unit volumes in the hard drive industry were down 5% in calendar year 2011 from
calendar 2010 as historic flooding in Thailand shuttered approximately 45% of the industry’s assembly capacity and a majority of its supply chain between mid-October 2011 and February 2012. Each industry market was negatively affected by the
flooding, with branded products suffering the greatest setbacks.

Enterprise

We believe shipments into the enterprise market of the storage industry increased 17% in calendar 2011 from calendar 2010. Enterprise
storage devices consist of performance and capacity hard drives, as well as performance solid-state drives. All of these devices are used in multiple types of enterprise datacenters that provide storage for a range of cloud and corporate
applications. Within datacenters, these drives are typically used in workstations, computer servers and storage systems.

Performance applications are essential to the operations of an enterprise and require the greatest capabilities and reliability in hard
drives and solid-state drives. This class of drives is the most highly engineered product line in the storage industry. Cloud computing is the trend towards centralization of information storage and delivery of Internet-based services. Cloud
computing delivers shared resources, software and information to users on demand on a multitude of devices, such as client PCs, tablets and smart phones. Most cloud computing models consist of services delivered through large data centers with
enterprise-class servers. The infrastructure to support cloud computing storage needs is driving the demand for enterprise capacity hard drives and solid-state drives.

The enterprise market also consists of solid-state drives for use in embedded applications, such as network communications and industrial, medical, military and aerospace applications, all of which
require high durability and long life cycles.

We believe that industry unit shipments of performance and capacity hard drives
represented 53% and 44%, respectively, of enterprise hard drives shipped in calendar 2011. Increasingly, solid state drives are also being deployed in the performance drives of the enterprise market, representing 3% of the enterprise units shipped
in calendar 2011.

Client: Desktop and Notebook PCs

Client storage devices consist of internal hard drives and solid-state drives for desktop and mobile PCs. We believe industry unit
shipments of mobile hard drives into the client space declined 3% in calendar 2011 from calendar 2010, while volumes of desktop hard drives declined 13% in calendar 2011 from calendar 2010.

Desktop PCs are intended for regular use at single locations in homes and businesses, as well as in multi-user educational and government
networks. Mobile PCs, primarily notebook computers, are used both in and away from homes and businesses. We believe that the demand for client computer hard drives and solid-state drives will grow primarily due to increasing demand in emerging
countries, continued corporate refreshes, the proliferation of digital content and changing requirements for increasing performance, small size and low power consumption.

Mobile hard drives for notebook PCs, the industry’s highest volume market, have traditionally been in a 2.5-inch form factor with a 9.5mm height. There is a trend toward thinner, lighter devices with
extended battery life and low power consumption. To support this trend, the storage industry is developing smaller form factors, such as slimmer 2.5-inch hard drives and hybrid drives. A hybrid drive is a form of a hard drive that incorporates NAND
flash technology in the caching function. Hybrid drives specifically designed for mobile computing will combine the power and performance of solid state drives with the capacity, affordability and availability attributes of hard drives.

Consumer Electronics

Hard drives for CE products are primarily used in digital video recorders (“DVRs”), game consoles and security video recording systems. We believe hard drive unit shipments into the CE market
decreased 5% in calendar 2011 from calendar 2010.







DVRs offer greater consumer viewing flexibility and enhanced capabilities such as pausing
live television, simplifying the process of recording and cataloging recorded television programs and quickly forwarding or returning to any section of a recorded television program. Game consoles enable users to save games, movies, music, pictures
and other user generated content. We believe growth in the CE market will continue to create demand for higher capacity hard drives.

Branded Products

External storage devices supplement the storage space of
PC systems for home and small office networks. They are ideally suited to back up data on internal drives because of their portability and security features. We believe hard drive shipments into the branded products market increased 5% in calendar
2011 from calendar 2010.

Media players connect to a user’s television or home theater system and play digital movies,
music and photos from an integrated hard drive, Universal Serial Bus (“USB”) mass storage devices or content services accessed over the Internet. There is a growing need for consumers to play and view their personal stored digital content
and premium content from the Internet on their television and home theater system consistent with the growing trend to digitize rich content and data.

Home networking is an emerging market in the branded products space as consumers seek to address overload problems resulting from the proliferation of devices simultaneously using home networks.

Other Market Opportunities

We regularly review opportunities to apply our knowledge of data storage technology to markets that we do not currently serve. Based on our significant investments, we believe we have the technology
building blocks to increase our overall market penetration and be a full-line data storage solutions supplier. Consistent with our measured and deliberate approach to new market entries in the recent past, our approach to additional new markets will
be based on a careful assessment of the risks, rewards, requirements and profit potential of such actions.

Products

We offer a broad line of storage devices. Our hard drives currently include 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch form factors,
capacities ranging from 30 gigabytes (“GB”) to 4 terabytes (“TB”), nominal rotation speeds up to 15,000 revolutions per minute (“RPM”), and interfaces such as Advanced Technology Attachment (“ATA”) and Serial
Attached SCSI (Small Computer System Interface) (“SAS”). In addition, we offer a family of hard drives specifically designed to consume substantially less power than standard drives, utilizing our WD GreenPower Technologytm. Our solid-state drives currently include 2.5-inch, mSATA, MO-297
and CompactFlash form factors, capacities ranging from 128 MB to 400 GB, and interfaces such as SAS, Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (“SATA”) and Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment (“PATA”). We also participate in the
mobile computing market of smart phones and tablets with standalone Western Digital software applications such as WD Photos and WD2go for iOS, Android and Windows Phone platforms.

Enterprise Storage Products.Enterprise storage products consist of hard drives for performance enterprise and capacity
enterprise, as well as solid-state drives for embedded applications. Our hard drive enterprise unit shipments were 16 million, 10 million and 9 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our enterprise storage products include:



•HGST
Ultrastar®capacity drives provide enterprise class reliability at the lowest cost per GB and are primarily for
use in data storage systems, in tiered storage models and where data must be stored reliably for years and delivered across enterprise;



•HGST
Ultrastar®performance drives are optimized for performance applications. Ultrastar®large form factor drives provide high performance, high capacity storage, primarily for data storage systems.
Ultrastar®small form factor drives provide a range of capacity and performance levels primarily for use in
enterprise servers, supporting high volume on-line transactions, data analysis and other enterprise applications. The
Ultrastar®SSD400S is designed for the ultimate performance storage tier, with up to 400 GB of high performance,
high endurance SLC NAND Flash;



•WD®RE family
of hard drives is designed for capacity storage enterprise applications requiring high performance and high reliability;







•WD
SiliconDrive®family of solid-state drives features fast read/write speeds in high capacities and is designed
for embedded system OEM applications that require high performance and reliability with a long product life; and



•WD®XE
(formerly WD S25) hard drives are designed for performance enterprise server and storage applications such as data centers and large data arrays.

Client: Desktop and Notebook PCs.Client compute products consist of hard drives and solid-state drives for desktop and mobile PCs. Our hard drive client compute unit shipments were
150 million, 151 million and 147 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our client compute storage products include:



•HGST
Deskstar®, WD Black™, WD Blue™ and WD Green™ hard drives are designed for use in desktop PCs
requiring high performance, reliability and capacity with various attributes such as low cost per gigabytes, quiet acoustics, low power consumption and protection against shocks;



•HGST
Travelstar®, WD Black™, WD Blue™ and WD Green™ hard drives are designed for use in mobile PCs
requiring high performance, reliability and capacity with various ranges of performance and attributes such as low power consumption for extended battery life and cooler operation, quiet acoustics and protection against shocks;



•WD Red™ drives are an innovative line of SATA hard drives specifically designed for home and small office network attached storage
(“NAS”) systems and optimized for energy efficiency and reliability; and



•WD
VelociRaptor®hard drives are designed for advanced single-user computing systems such as professional
workstations for video editing and CAD/CAM (computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing) applications and high-end desktop PC applications including gaming, which require high performance and high reliability.

Consumer Electronics Products.Consumer electronic products are used in consumer electronics, such as DVRs, gaming consoles,
set top boxes, camcorders and entertainment and navigation systems in automobiles. Our consumer electronics unit shipments were 17 million, 21 million and 17 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our consumer electronics
products include:



•HGST
Cinemaster®drives are designed and optimized for video streaming applications, such as set-top-boxes, DVRs and
surveillance. They are offered in both 2.5-inch and 3.5-inch form factors with a broad range of performance, acoustics and power consumption characteristics;



•HGST
Endurastar®drives are optimized to provide reliable storage and features within the rigors of the automotive
environment, including navigation, telematics, in-car entertainment and vehicle relational management;



•HGST iVDR®drives, or Versatile Device for removable usage, are large-capacity disk drive removable media, in both iVDR®(Nonsecure) and iVDRS®(Secure) formats. iVDR®drives are designed to provide a standard portable format with optional content protection for content such as movies, music and software across multiple platforms;
and



•WD®AV drives
deliver the characteristics CE manufacturers seek most, which are quiet operation, low operating temperature, low power consumption specifications, high reliability and optimized streaming capabilities.







Branded Products.Branded products consist of hard drives
embedded into WD®-, HGST- and G-Technology-branded external storage appliances with capacities ranging from 500
GB to 12 TB and using interfaces such as USB 2.0, USB 3.0, external SATA, FireWiretmand Ethernet network connections. Certain branded products models include software that assists customers with backup, remote access and management of digital content. Branded products also include our
home entertainment and networking products. Our branded products unit shipments were 18 million, 25 million and 21 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our branded products include:



•G-Technology drives offer a variety of desktop and mobile models specifically designed for the creative professional with seamless integration into a
MacTMenvironment;



•HGST X-Series™ drives provide a high quality, reliable storage for backup and capacity expansion in both mobile and desktop form factors;



•WD My
Passport®and WD ElementstmPortable family of storage appliances are designed for external portability weighing less than one-half of a pound;



•HGST
TouroTMfamily of storage appliances are designed to keep
digital content secure while providing portable storage for desktops and notebooks;



•WD My Book®and WD ElementstmDesktop family of storage appliances are
designed to add external capacity to desktops, notebooks and DVRs and connect to networks to simplify storage for consumers;



•WD Sentinel™ is a complete network storage solution designed to meet the needs of small-to-medium sized businesses (“SMBs”);



•WD TV®media
players connect to a user’s television or home theater system and play digital movies, music and photos from an integrated hard drive, network hard drives, any of our WD®-branded external hard drives, other USB mass storage devices or content services accessed over the Internet;



•WD
Livewiretmenables consumers to use their existing
electrical outlets to extend secure and reliable high-speed Internet connections throughout the home; and



•WD My Net™ is a family of wireless home networking products, designed specifically to accelerate movies, video and gaming, which delivers a
premium high-definition entertainment experience. The My Net™ family debuts WD’s exclusive FasTrack™ technology that instantly detects entertainment traffic on the network and prioritizes it for gaming consoles, media players, smart
TVs, tablets, smart phones, computers and other Wi-Fi connected devices.

Research and Development

We devote substantial resources to the development of new products and the improvement of existing products. We focus our engineering
efforts on coordinating our product design and manufacturing processes to bring our products to market in a cost-effective and timely manner. Research and development expenses totaled $1.1 billion, $703 million and $611 million in 2012,
2011 and 2010, respectively. For a discussion of risks related to our development of new products, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Technology and Product Development

Hard Drives

Hard drives provide non-volatile data storage, which means that the data remains present when power is no longer applied to the device.
The primary measures of hard drive performance include:



•Acoustics — sound power emitted during hard drive operation, commonly expressed in decibels, and perceived loudness due to sound pressure,
commonly expressed in sones;



•Data transfer rate — sustained rate of data transfer to and from the disk, commonly expressed in gigabits per second. One gigabit equals one
billion bits;



•Power consumption — which is the amount of electricity required to operate the drive, measured in watts;



•Seek time — time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface, commonly expressed in milliseconds;







•Spindle rotation speed — nominal rotation speed of the disks inside the hard drive, commonly expressed in RPM or latency. Spindle rotation
speeds commonly stated as 5,400, 7,200 and 15,000 RPM are sometimes approximations; and



•Storage capacity — which is the amount of data that can be stored on the hard drive, commonly expressed in GB or TB. As defined in the
storage industry, one GB equals one billion bytes and one TB equals one trillion bytes. A byte is a digital character, typically comprised of eight bits. A bit is a binary digit, the smallest unit of information in a digital system.

Industry-standard interfaces allow the drives to communicate with the host system. The primary interface
for PCs is SATA and the primary interfaces for enterprise systems are SAS, Fibre Channel Arbitrated Loop and SATA.

The main
components of the hard drive are a Head-Disk-Assembly (“HDA”) and a Printed Circuit Board Assembly (“PCBA”).

The HDA includes heads, magnetic media, head positioning mechanism (“actuator”) and spindle motor. A rigid base and top cover contain these components in a contamination-controlled environment.
One or more disks positioned around a motor-driven spindle hub that rotates the disks comprise the disk-pack assembly. The disk is made up of a smooth substrate on which thin layers of magnetic materials are deposited. The head stack assembly
(“HSA”) is comprised of a magnetic positioner and a pivot-arm module on which the individual heads, including suspension, are mounted. Each disk has a head suspended directly above it, which can read data from or write data to the spinning
disk.

The PCBA includes both standard and custom integrated circuits, an interface connector to the host computer and a power
connector. The integrated circuits on the printed circuit board typically include a power device that controls the motor and HSA positioner, and a System on Chip comprised of a drive interface, controller and recording channel. The drive interface
receives instructions from the host computer, while the controller directs the flow of data to or from the disks and controls the heads. The location of data on each disk is logically maintained in concentric tracks divided into sectors. The host
computer sends instructions to the controller to read data from or write data to the disks, based on logical track and sector locations. Guided by instructions from the controller, the HSA pivots in an arc across the disk until it reaches the
selected track of a disk, where the data is recorded or retrieved.

The storage capacity of a hard drive is determined by the
number of disks and each disk’s areal density (track density multiplied by bit density), which is a measure of the amount of data that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk per unit area. Head and magnetic media technologies are
two of the key components affecting areal density. As areal density increases, achieving a given drive capacity potentially reduces product costs over time through reduced component requirements. We are vertically integrated in these two most
important technology components of hard drives (heads and magnetic media). We also invest considerable resources in research and development, manufacturing infrastructure and capital equipment of head and magnetic media components, in order to
secure our competitive position and cost structure.

Solid-State Drives

Solid-state drives use semiconductor, non-volatile media, rather than magnetic media and magnetic heads, to store and allow fast access to
data without any moving parts. The capacity of a solid-state drive is based on the total number of megabytes or GB of semiconductor media in the solid-state drive.

Our products generally leverage a common platform for various products within product families, and in some cases across product families, resulting in the commonality of components which reduces our
exposure to changes in demand, facilitates inventory management and allows us to achieve lower costs through purchasing economies. This platform strategy also enables our customers to leverage their qualification efforts onto successive product
models. For a discussion of risks related to technological innovations, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







Sales and Distribution

We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world including the major geographies of the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the Middle East. Our international sales, which include sales to foreign
subsidiaries of United States (“U.S.”) companies but do not include sales to U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies, represented 81%, 83% and 81% of our net revenue for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Sales to international
customers are subject to certain risks not normally encountered in domestic operations, including exposure to tariffs and various trade regulations. For a discussion regarding the risks related to sales to international customers, see Item 1A
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We perform our marketing and advertising functions internally and through outside
firms utilizing both consumer media and trade publications targeting various reseller and end-user categories. We also maintain customer relationships through direct communication and providing information and support through our Web site. In
accordance with standard storage industry practice, we provide distributors and retailers with limited price protection and programs under which we reimburse certain marketing expenditures. We also provide distributors, resellers and OEMs with other
sales incentive programs.

Original Equipment Manufacturers.OEMs, including large-scale datacenter
operators,purchase our products, either directly or through a contract manufacturer such as an original design manufacturer (“ODM”), and assemble them into the devices they build. OEMs typically seek to qualify two or more
providers for each generation of products and generally will purchase products from those vendors for the life of that product. Many of our OEM customers utilize just-in-time inventory management processes or supply chain business models that allow
for “build-to-order,” in which they do not build until there is a firm order. For certain OEMs, we maintain a base stock of finished goods inventory in facilities located near or adjacent to the OEM’s operations. We believe that our
success depends on our ability to maintain and improve our strong relationships with the leading OEMs.

Distributors.We use a broad group of distributors to sell our products to non-direct customers such as small computer and CE
manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators, online retailers and other resellers. Distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements with us for the purchase and redistribution of our products in specific territories.

Retailers.We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major retailers such as computer superstores, warehouse
clubs, online retailers, and computer electronics stores, and authorize sales through distributors to smaller retailers. The retail channel complements our other sales channels while helping to build brand awareness for us and our products. We also
sell our branded products through our Web site.

For 2012, sales to Hewlett Packard Company accounted for 11% of our net
revenue. For 2011 and 2010, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue. For a discussion of risks related to our customers, refer to Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For additional information regarding
revenue recognition, sales by geographic region and major customer information, see Part II, Item 8, Notes 1 and 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Competition

We compete
with manufacturers of hard drives for client compute, client non-compute and enterprise applications, as well as manufacturers of solid-state drives. Competition in the hard drive market consists of five brands: HGST, Samsung, Seagate, Toshiba and
WD. In solid-state products we compete with a wide range of manufacturers, from small startup companies to multinational corporations, including Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Seagate Technology LLC, STEC, Inc. and Toshiba
Corporation.







We differentiate ourselves by focusing on operational excellence, high product quality and reliability, and designing and incorporating
desirable product performance attributes into our storage devices. We also differentiate ourselves by emphasizing non-product related attributes such as availability and rapid response to our customers, which requires accelerated design cycles,
customer delivery, production flexibility and timely service and support. We believe that trust in a manufacturer’s reputation, its execution track record and the establishment of strategic relationships have become important factors in the
selection of a storage device, particularly in a rapidly changing technology environment.

Seasonality

We have historically experienced seasonal fluctuations in our business with higher levels of demand in the first and second quarters of
our fiscal year. This seasonality is a result of consumer spending at the beginning of the school year and during the holiday season. Seasonality can also be impacted by the growth in emerging markets and macroeconomic conditions. For a discussion
of risks related to seasonality in our business, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Service and Warranty

We generally warrant our newly manufactured products against defects in materials and workmanship from one to five years
from the date of manufacture depending on the type of product. Our warranty obligation is generally limited to repair or replacement. We have engaged third parties in various countries in multiple regions to provide various levels of testing,
processing and/or recertification of returned products for our customers. For a further discussion of our service and warranty policy, see Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Manufacturing

We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product manufacturing processes, test and tooling, execution skills and human resources to continue to be successful and be able to grow, as necessary,
our manufacturing operations. We strive to maintain manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing yields, reliable products, and high-quality components. The critical elements of our hard drive production are high volume and utilization, low cost
assembly and testing, and maintaining close relationships with our strategic component suppliers to access best-of-class technology and manufacturing quality.

Hard drive manufacturing is a complex process involving the production and assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and thorough testing. The assembly process occurs in a “clean
room” environment that demands skill in process engineering and efficient space utilization to control the operating costs of this manufacturing environment. Our clean room manufacturing process consists of modular production units, each of
which contains a number of work cells.

We continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort to increase
productivity, sustain and improve quality and decrease manufacturing costs. We continually evaluate which steps in the manufacturing process would benefit from automation and how automated manufacturing processes can improve productivity and reduce
manufacturing costs. For our non-hard drive products, we leverage the efficiencies of contract manufacturers when strategically advantageous. For a discussion of risks related to manufacturing, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.







Materials and Supplies

We use a number of components, equipment, goods and services in the manufacturing of our products. The key components of our hard drives are: magnetic heads; magnetic media; suspensions with related head
gimbal assemblies (“HGAs”) and HSAs; spindle motors; custom and standard electronics such as system-on-chip, magnetic media, motor controllers, pre-amps and printed circuit boards; base and top covers; and magnets and related voice coil
motors.

We design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media required for our hard drives. We
acquire all of the remaining components for our products from third party suppliers. The major components used in the manufacture of our solid-state drives (the semiconductor media and system-on-chip) and in our media players (the controller) are
also acquired from third party suppliers. We believe that our sourcing strategy currently enables us to have the business flexibility needed to select the highest quality, low cost of ownership suppliers as product designs and technologies evolve.

We generally retain multiple suppliers for each of our component requirements but in some instances use sole sources for
business reasons. Currently, we believe that there are no major issues with component availability. For a discussion of risks related to our component supplies, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Backlog

A substantial
portion of our orders are generally for shipments within 30 to 60 days of the placement of the order. Customers’ purchase orders typically may be canceled with relatively short notice to us, with little or no cost to the customer, or
modified by customers to provide for delivery at a later date. In addition, for many of our OEMs utilizing just-in-time inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments and instead, receive a periodic forecast of requirements.
Therefore, backlog information as of the end of a particular period is not necessarily indicative of future levels of our revenue and profit and may not be comparable to prior periods.

Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Information

We own numerous patents and
have many patent applications in process. We believe that, although our patents and patent applications have considerable value, the successful manufacturing and marketing of our products depends primarily upon the technical and managerial
competence of our staff. Accordingly, the patents held and applied for do not ensure our future success.

In addition to
patent protection of certain intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that our non-patented intellectual property, particularly some of our process
technology, is an important factor in our success. We rely upon non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. Despite these safeguards, there is a risk that
competitors may obtain and use such information. The laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business may provide less protection for confidential information than the U.S.

We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties to manufacture and sell our products. We believe that we have adequate
cross-licenses and other agreements in place in addition to our own intellectual property portfolio to compete successfully in the storage industry. For discussion of risks related to our ownership and use of intellectual property, see Item 1A
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign laws and regulations in connection with our operations and relating to the protection of
the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some of our operations require environmental permits and controls
to prevent and reduce air and water pollution. These permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities. We believe that we have obtained or are in the process of obtaining all necessary environmental permits for our
operations.







We have established environmental management systems and continually update our
environmental policies and standard operating procedures for our operations worldwide. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits. We budget for operating and capital costs
on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental laws.

Our properties have in some cases been operated for many years and may
contain soil or groundwater contamination. In certain of our facilities we are undertaking voluntary monitoring of soil and groundwater. Based on available information, including our voluntary monitoring activities, we do not believe that we have a
current affirmative legal obligation for any remedial action.

For a discussion of risks related to environmental regulation,
see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Employees

As of June 29, 2012, we employed a total of 103,111 employees worldwide, excluding temporary employees and contractors. Many of our
employees are highly skilled, and our continued success depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain such employees. Accordingly, we offer employee benefit programs which we believe are, in the aggregate, competitive with those offered by
our competitors.

While the substantial majority of our employees are not party to a collective bargaining agreement, a
majority of our employees in Japan are subject to a collective bargaining agreement with the Hitachi Worker Union. In addition, each of our three manufacturing subsidiaries in China has its own labor union of which many of each subsidiary’s
direct employees are members. However, none of our Chinese subsidiaries is currently subject to collective bargaining agreements with these labor unions. While we have had minor disputes with employees in China in the past, we consider our employee
relations to be good. For a discussion of risks related to our skilled employees, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Available Information

We maintain an Internet Web site at www.westerndigital.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available on our Web site at www.westerndigital.com, free of charge, as
soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with, or furnishing of these reports to, the SEC. Any materials we file with the SEC are available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549. Additional information about the operation of the Public Reference Room can also be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a Web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including us.

Executive Officers of
the Registrant

Listed below are all of our executive officers, followed by a brief account of their business experience
during the past five years. Executive officers are normally appointed annually by the Board of Directors at a meeting of the directors immediately following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. There are no family relationships among these officers
nor any arrangements or understandings between any officer and any other person pursuant to which an officer was selected.



NameAgePositionJohn F. Coyne62Chief Executive Officer, WDCStephen D. Milligan49President, WDCTimothy M. Leyden60President, WD SubsidiaryMichael D. Cordano48President, HGST SubsidiaryWolfgang U. Nickl43Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, WDC







Mr. Coyne, 62, has been a director since October 2006. He joined us in 1983 and has
served in various executive capacities. From November 2002 until June 2005, Mr. Coyne served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, from June 2005 until November 2005, he served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations, and
from November 2005 until June 2006, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer. Effective June 2006, he was named President and Chief Operating Officer. In January 2007, he became President and Chief Executive Officer.
Effective March 8, 2012, in connection with our acquisition of HGST and our employment of Mr. Milligan as President of WDC, Mr. Coyne now serves as Chief Executive Officer of WDC. Mr. Coyne is currently a director of Jacobs
Engineering Group Inc.

Mr. Milligan, 49, re-joined us in March 2012 as President of WDC as a result of the acquisition
of HGST. He served as HGST’s President from March 2009 to December 2009 and as its President and Chief Executive Officer from December 2009 until our acquisition of HGST in March 2012. From September 2007 to October 2009, Mr. Milligan
served as HGST’s Chief Financial Officer. From January 2004 to September 2007, Mr. Milligan served as our Chief Financial Officer and from September 2002 to January 2004, Mr. Milligan served as our Senior Vice President, Finance. From
April 1997 to September 2002, Mr. Milligan held various financial and accounting roles of increasing responsibility at Dell Inc. (“Dell”). Prior to joining Dell, Mr. Milligan was employed at Price Waterhouse for 12 years, most
recently as Senior Manager.

Mr. Leyden, 60, re-joined us in May 2007 and was appointed to the position of President of
our WD subsidiary on July 25, 2012. Prior to serving as President of the WD subsidiary, Mr. Leyden served as Chief Operating Officer from August 2010 to July 2012, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from September 2007 to
August 2010, and Executive Vice President, Finance from May 2007 to September 2007. From December 2001 to May 2007, Mr. Leyden served in senior finance capacities at Sage Software Inc. and Sage Software of California, subsidiaries of Sage Group
PLC, a U.K. public company that supplies accounting and business management software to small and medium-sized businesses, including as Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer from December 2001 to May 2004 and as Senior Vice President,
Finance and Chief Financial Officer from May 2004 to May 2007. Mr. Leyden previously served in various worldwide finance, manufacturing and information technology capacities with us from 1983 to December 2000.

Mr. Cordano, 48, joined us on March 8, 2012 in connection with our acquisition of HGST. Mr. Cordano was appointed
President of our HGST subsidiary on July 25, 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Cordano served as HGST’s Executive Vice President, Sales & Marketing, and President, Branded Business, since April 2009. From February 2005 to April 2009,
Mr. Cordano served as Chief Executive Officer and co-founder of Fabrik, Inc., which was acquired by HGST in April 2009. From 1994 to February 2005, Mr. Cordano served in various roles of increasing responsibility at Maxtor Corporation,
including as the Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing from April 2001 until February 2005, where he formed and managed the Branded Products Business Unit.

Mr. Nickl, 43, was promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of WDC in August 2012. Mr. Nickl had previously served as the Company’s Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer from August 2010 to August 2012 and Vice President, Finance from October 2005 to August 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Nickl served as Vice President, Worldwide Business Operations from May 2005 to October 2005, and as Executive
Director, Worldwide Business Operations from July 2003 to May 2005.



