Item 1.  Business



Ball
Corporation (Ball, we, the company or our) is one of the world’s leading
suppliers of metal and plastic packaging to the beverage, food and household
products industries. Our packaging products are produced for a variety of end
uses and are manufactured in plants around the world. We also supply
aerospace and other technologies and services to governmental and commercial
customers within our aerospace and technologies segment (Ball Aerospace). In
2009 our total consolidated net sales were $7.35 billion. Our packaging
businesses are responsible for 91 percent of our net sales, with the remaining 9
percent contributed by our aerospace business.



Our
largest product lines are aluminum and steel beverage containers, which
accounted for 63 percent of our 2009 total net sales and 77 percent of
our 2009 total earnings before interest and taxes. We also produce steel food
containers, steel aerosol containers, polyethylene terepthalate (PET) and
polypropylene plastic bottles for beverages and foods, steel paint cans and
decorative steel tins.



We sell
our packaging products primarily to major beverage, food and household products
companies with which we have developed long-term customer relationships. This is
evidenced by our high customer retention and our large number of long-term
supply contracts. We sell a majority of our packaging products to relatively few
major companies in North America, Europe, the People’s Republic of China (PRC)
and Argentina, as do our equity joint ventures in Brazil, the U.S. and the
PRC.



Ball
Aerospace is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of innovative
aerospace systems. It produces spacecraft, instruments and sensors, radio
frequency and microwave technologies, data exploitation solutions and a variety
of advanced aerospace technologies and products that enable deep space
missions.



Our
corporate strategy is to grow our worldwide beverage container business and our
aerospace business, to continue to leverage and develop the metal food and
household products packaging, Americas, segment, to improve the performance of
the plastic packaging, Americas, segment, and to utilize free cash flow and
earnings growth to increase shareholder value.



We are
headquartered in Broomfield, Colorado. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock
Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol
BLL.



Our
Financial Strategy



Ball
Corporation maintains a clear and disciplined financial strategy focused on
improving shareholder returns through:



●Delivering
long-term earnings per share growth of 10 percent to 15
percent

●Focusing
on free cash flow generation

●Increasing
Economic Value Added (EVA®)



The cash
generated by our businesses is used primarily: (1) to finance the company’s operations, (2)
to fund stock buy-back programs and dividend payments, (3) to fund strategic
capital investments and (4) to service the company’s debt. We will,
when we believe it will benefit the company and our shareholders, make strategic
acquisitions or divest parts of our business.



The
compensation of a majority of our employees is tied directly to the company’s
performance through our EVA® incentive programs. When the company performs well,
our employees are paid more. If the company does not perform well, our employees
get paid less or no incentive compensation.





Page 1 of



Our
Reporting Segments



Ball
Corporation reports its financial performance infive reportable segments
organized along a combination of product lines, after aggregating operating
segments that have similar economic characteristics: (1) metal beverage
packaging, Americas and Asia; (2) metal beverage packaging, Europe;
(3) metal food and household products packaging, Americas; (4) plastic
packaging, Americas; and (5) aerospace and technologies. We also have
investments in companies in the U.S., the PRC and Brazil, which are accounted
for using the equity method of accounting and, accordingly, those results are
not included in segment sales or earnings.



Profitability
is sensitive to selling prices, production volumes, labor, transportation,
utility and warehousing costs, as well as the availability and price of raw
materials, such as aluminum sheet, tinplate steel, plastic resin and other
direct materials. These raw materials are generally available from several
sources, and we have secured what we consider to be adequate supplies and are
not experiencing any shortages. There has been significant consolidation of raw
material suppliers in both North America and in Europe. Raw materials and energy
sources, such as natural gas and electricity, may from time to time be in short
supply or unavailable due to external factors. We cannot predict the timing or
effects, if any, of such occurrences on future operations.



A
substantial part of Ball’s packaging sales are made directly to companies in
packaged beverage and food businesses, including MillerCoors LLC, Anheuser-Busch
InBev n.v./s.a. and bottlers of Pepsi-Cola and Coca-Cola branded beverages and
their affiliates that utilize consolidated purchasing groups.



Metal
Beverage Packaging, Americas and Asia, Segment



Metal
beverage packaging, Americas and Asia, is Ball’s largest segment, accounting for
39 percent of consolidated net sales in 2009. Metal beverage containers are
primarily sold under multi-year supply contracts to fillers of carbonated soft
drinks, beer, energy drinks and other beverages.



Americas



According
to publicly available information and company estimates, the combined U.S. and
Canadian metal beverage container markets represent more than
100 billion units. Five companies manufacture substantially all of the
metal beverage containers in the U.S. and Canada. Two of these producers and
three other independent producers also manufacture metal beverage containers in
Mexico. Ball produced in excess of 31 billion recyclable beverage
containers in the U.S. and Canada in 2009 – about 31 percent of the total
market. Sales volumes of metal beverage containers in North America tend to be
highest during the period from April through September. All of the beverage cans
produced by Ball in the U.S. and Canada are made of aluminum, as are all
beverage cans produced by our competitors in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. In
2009 we were able to recover substantially all aluminum-related cost increases
levied by producers through either financial or contractual means. In North
America, four aluminum suppliers provide virtually all of our requirements. Some
of those aluminum suppliers have experienced significant financial and liquidity
constraints in recent years.



We
believe we have limited our exposure related to changes in the costs of aluminum
ingot as a result of the inclusion of provisions in most aluminum container
sales contracts to pass through aluminum ingot price changes, as well as the use
of derivative instruments.



Beverage
containers are sold based on quality, service, innovation and price in a highly
competitive market, which is relatively capital intensive and is characterized
by plants that run more or less continuously in order to operate profitably. In
addition, the aluminum beverage container competes aggressively with other
packaging materials. The glass bottle has shown resilience in the packaged beer
industry, while the PET container has grown significantly in the carbonated soft
drink and water industries over the past quarter century. In Canada, metal
beverage containers have captured significantly lower percentages of packaged
beverage industry volumes than in the U.S., particularly in the packaged beer
industry.



Two-piece
aluminum beverage containers are produced at 17 manufacturing facilities in the
U.S. and one in Canada. Can ends are produced within four of the U.S.
facilities, as well as in two facilities that manufacture only can ends. Through
Rocky Mountain Metal Container, LLC, a 50-percent-owned joint venture, which is
accounted for as an equity investment, Ball and MillerCoors, LLC, operate
beverage container and can end manufacturing facilities in Golden,
Colorado.





Page 2 of





On
October 1, 2009, the company acquired three of Anheuser-Busch InBev
n.v./s.a.’s (AB InBev) metal beverage container manufacturing plants and one of
its beverage can end manufacturing plants, all of which are located in the U.S.,
for $574.7 million in cash. The acquired plants produce about
10 billion aluminum containers and 10 billion beverage can ends annually,
more than two-thirds of which are produced for leading soft drink companies and
the rest for AB InBev. With the shipments from the acquired plants, Ball
estimates its annual shipments will grow to approximately 40 percent of
total U.S. and Canadian shipments.



We
participate in a 50-percent-owned joint venture in Brazil, Latapack-Ball
Embalagens, Ltda., that manufactures aluminum beverage cans and ends and is
accounted for as an equity investment. The Brazilian joint venture recently
expanded capacity at its existing metal beverage container manufacturing
facility near Jacarei and completed the construction of a new plant near Rio de
Janeiro.



In order
to more closely balance capacity and demand within our business, during 2008 and
2009 Ball completed the closure of three metal beverage packaging plants in
North America:



●We
      closed a metal beverage packaging plant in Kent, Washington, in the third
      quarter of 2008. The plant had two 12-ounce aluminum beverage container
      manufacturing lines that produced approximately 1.1 billion
      containers annually.



●We
      announced on October 30, 2008, the closure of our metal beverage container
      plants in Kansas City, Missouri, and Guayama, Puerto Rico. The Kansas City
      plant, which primarily manufactured specialty beverage cans, was closed in
      the first quarter of 2009 with manufacturing volumes absorbed by other
      North American beverage container plants. The Puerto Rico facility, which
      manufactured 12-ounce beverage cans, was closed at the end of
      2008.



Where
growth is projected in certain markets or for certain products, Ball is
undertaking selected capacity increases in its existing facilities and may
establish or obtain additional manufacturing capacity to the extent required by
the growth of any of the markets we serve.



Asia



The
beverage can market in the PRC is approximately 13 billion containers, of
which Ball’s operations represent an estimated 22 percent, with an
additional 13 percent manufactured by two joint ventures in which we
participate. Our percentage of the industry makes us one of the largest
manufacturers of beverage containers in the PRC. Six other manufacturers make up
the remainder of the market. Our operations include the manufacture of aluminum
cans and ends in three plants in the PRC, as well as in our two joint ventures.
Capacity grew rapidly in the PRC in the late 1990s, resulting in a supply/demand
imbalance. The rapid growth slowed in the early 2000s, and a number of can
makers, including Ball, responded by rationalizing capacity. Growth has resumed
over the past several years, and we expect the PRC market to continue to grow
over time. We also manufacture and sell high-density plastic containers in two
PRC plants primarily servicing the motor oil industry.



On
November 9, 2009, we announced our agreement to acquire Guangdong Jianlibao
Group Co., Ltd’s (Jianlibao) 65-percent interest in a joint venture metal
beverage can and end plant in Sanshui, PRC. We have owned 35 percent of the
joint venture plant since 1992. We will acquire the plant and related assets for
approximately $90 million in cash and assumed debt and will also enter into
a long-term supply agreement with Jianlibao. The transaction is expected to
close in 2010, subject to customary regulatory approvals.



Metal
Beverage Packaging, Europe, Segment



The
European beverage can market, excluding Russia, is approximately 47 billion
cans and Ball Packaging Europe is the second largest metal beverage container
producer with an estimated 32 percent of the European shipments. While
current economic conditions have slowed growth in the near term, the European
market is expected to grow, and is highly regional in terms of sales growth
rates and packaging mix. Growth in central and eastern Europe has been
particularly strong in past years but has been impacted by the global economic
environment, causing the company to delay completion of its new plant in Lublin,
Poland. Western European markets, including the United Kingdom and France,
continue to maintain historical volumes and growth characteristics.





Page 3 of





Sales
volumes of metal beverage containers in Europe tend to be highest during the
period from May through August with a smaller increase in demand during the
winter holiday season for the United Kingdom. As in North America, the metal
beverage container competes aggressively with other packaging materials used by
the European beer and carbonated soft drink industries. The glass bottle is
heavily utilized in the packaged beer industry, while the PET container is
utilized in the carbonated soft drink, beer, juice and mineral water
industries.



The metal
beverage packaging, Europe, segment, which accounted for 24 percent of Ball’s
consolidated net sales in 2009, supplies two-piece beverage cans and can ends
for producers of beer, carbonated soft drinks, mineral water, fruit juices,
energy drinks and other beverages. The European operations consist of 12 plants
– 10 beverage can plants and two beverage can end plants – of which four are
located in Germany, three in the United Kingdom, two in France and one each in
the Netherlands, Poland and Serbia. In addition, Ball Packaging Europe is
currently renting additional space on the premises of a supplier in Haslach,
Germany in order toproducethe Ball ResealableEnd (BRE).TheEuropean plantsproducedapproximately
16 billion cans in 2009, with approximately 57 percent of those being
produced from aluminum and 43 percent from steel. Six of the can plants use
aluminum and four use steel.



European
raw material supply contracts are generally for a period of one year, although
Ball Packaging Europe has negotiated some longer term agreements. In Europe
three steel suppliers and four aluminum suppliers provide approximately 95
percent of our requirements. Aluminum is traded primarily in U.S. dollars, while
the functional currencies of Ball Packaging Europe and its subsidiaries are
non-U.S. dollars. The company generally tries to minimize the resulting foreign
exchange rate risk with supply contracts in local currencies and the use of
derivative contracts. In addition, purchase and sales contracts include fixed
price, floating and pass-through pricing arrangements.



Metal
Food & Household Products Packaging, Americas, Segment



The metal
food and household products packaging, Americas, segment, accounted for
19 percent of consolidated net sales in 2009. The two major product lines
in this segment are steel food and aerosol containers. Ball produces two-piece
and three-piece steel food containers and ends for packaging vegetables, fruit,
soups, meat, seafood, nutritional products, pet food and other products. The
segment also manufactures and sells aerosol cans, paint cans and custom and
specialty containers. We are the largest manufacturer of aerosol cans in North
America. There are a total of 14 plants in the U.S. and Canada that produce
these products. In addition, the company manufactures and sells aerosol cans in
two plants in Argentina.



Sales
volumes of metal food containers in North America tend to be highest from May
through October as a result of seasonal fruit, vegetable and salmon packs. We
estimate our 2009 shipments of more than 5.1 billion steel food containers
to be approximately 18 percent of total U.S. and Canadian metal food
container shipments. We estimate our aerosol business accounts for approximately
45 percent of total annual U.S. and Canadian steel aerosol
shipments.



Competitors
in the metal food container product line include two national and a small number
of regional suppliers and self manufacturers. Several producers in Mexico also
manufacture steel food containers. Competition in the U.S. steel aerosol can
market primarily includes two national suppliers and a regional supplier in the
Midwest. Steel containers also compete with other packaging materials in the
food and household products industry including glass, aluminum, plastic, paper
and the stand-up pouch. As a result, demand for this product line is dependent
on product innovation and cost reduction. Service, quality and price are among
the other key competitive factors. In North America, two steel suppliers provide
nearly 70 percent of our tinplate steel. We believe we have limited our
exposure related to changes in the costs of steel tinplate as a result of the
inclusion of provisions in certain steel container sales contracts to pass
through steel cost changes and the existence of certain other steel container
sales contracts that incorporate annually negotiated metal costs. In 2009 we
were able to pass through the majority of steel cost increases levied by
producers.



Cost
containment is crucial to maintaining profitability in the food and aerosol
container manufacturing industries and Ball is focused on doing so. Toward that
end, during 2008 and 2009, Ball closed its aerosol container manufacturing
plants in Tallapoosa, Georgia, and Commerce, California. The two plant closures
result in a net reduction in manufacturing capacity of 10 production lines,
including the relocation of two high-speed aerosol lines to other existing Ball
facilities, and allow us to supply customers from a consolidated asset
base.





Page 4 of





Plastic
Packaging, Americas, Segment



Demand
for containers made of PET and polypropylene has slowed in the beverage and food
markets due to current economic conditions. While PET and polypropylene
beverage containers compete against metal, glass and cardboard, the
historical increase in the sales of PET containers has come primarily at the
expense of glass containers and through new market introductions.



Competition
in the PET plastic container industry is intense and includes several national
and regional suppliers and self manufacturers. In the smaller polypropylene
container industry, Ball is one of three major competitors. Service, quality,
innovation and price are important competitive factors with price being by
far the most important. The ability to produce customized, differentiated
plastic containers is also a key competitive factor. We believe we have limited
our exposure related to changes in the costs of plastic resin as a result of the
inclusion of resin cost pass-through provisions in substantially all plastic
container sales contracts.



Plastic
packaging, Americas, accounted for 9 percent of Ball’s consolidated net
sales in 2009. We estimate our 2009 shipments of 5 billion plastic bottles
to be approximately 8 percent of total U.S. PET container shipments.
In addition, this segment shipped approximately 625 million polypropylene
food and specialty containers during 2009. The company operates five plastic
container manufacturing facilities in the U.S.



Most of
Ball’s PET containers are sold under long-term contracts to suppliers of bottled
water and carbonated soft drinks, including bottlers of Pepsi-Cola branded
beverages and their affiliates that utilize consolidated purchasing groups. Most
of our polypropylene containers are also sold under long-term contracts,
primarily to food packaging companies. We are also manufacturing plastic
containers for the single-serve juice and wine markets. Our line of Heat-Tek®
PET plastic bottles for hot-filled beverages, such as sports drinks and juices,
includes sizes from 8 ounces to 64 ounces.



Ball’s
emphasis in this segment is on customized, differentiated containers. This
includes unique barrier plastics such as Gamma®, Gamma-Clear®, AmazonHM® and KHS
Corpoplast GmbH Plasmax® barrier bottles. We are continuing to limit
investment in the carbonated soft drink and bottled water business, which is a
commodity business, where the return on investment has been
unacceptable.



On
October 23, 2009, we sold our plastic pail assets to BWAY Corporation
for approximately $32 million. The transaction involved the sale of a
plastic pail manufacturing plant in Newnan, Georgia, which Ball acquired in 2006
as part of its purchase of U.S. Can Corporation, as well as associated
contracts. The plant produces injection molded plastic pails and drums for
products such as building materials and pool chemicals. The associated after-tax
loss was insignificant.



To reduce
costs and gain efficiencies, during 2008 and 2009, Ball closed three facilities
in Baldwinsville, New York, Watertown, Wisconsin, and Brampton, Ontario. The
three plants’ operations have been consolidated into our other plastic packaging
manufacturing facilities in the United States.



Aerospace
and Technologies Segment



Ball’s
aerospace and technologies segment, which accounted for 9 percent of
consolidated net sales in 2009, includes national defense, antenna and video
technologies, civil and operational space and systems engineering solutions
businesses. The segment develops spacecraft, sensors and instruments, radio
frequency systems and other advanced technologies for the civil, commercial and
national security aerospace markets. The majority of the aerospace and
technologies business involves work under contracts, generally from one to five
years in duration, as a prime contractor or subcontractor for the U.S.
Department of Defense (DoD), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
(NASA) and other U.S. government agencies. Contracts funded by the various
agencies of the federal government represented 94 percent of segment sales in
2009.



Geopolitical
events, shifting executive and legislative branch priorities, as well as funding
shortfalls combined with increased competition for new business, have resulted
in a decline in opportunities in areas matching our aerospace and technologies
segment’s core capabilities in space hardware. Although we have seen declines in
our space hardware opportunities, our traditional strength, we have seen growth
in opportunities related to our information services and tactical components.
The businesses include hardware, software and services sold primarily to U.S.
customers, with emphasis on space science and exploration, environmental and
Earth sciences, and defense and intelligence applications. Major contractual
activities frequently involve the design, manufacture and testing of satellites,
remote sensors and ground station control hardware and software, as well as
related services such as launch vehicle integration and satellite
operations.





Page 5 of





Other
hardware activities include target identification, warning and attitude control
systems and components; cryogenic systems for reactant storage, and associated
sensor cooling devices; star trackers, which are general-purpose stellar
attitude sensors; and fast-steering mirrors. Additionally, the aerospace and
technologies segment provides diversified technical services and products to
government agencies, prime contractors and commercial organizations for a broad
range of information warfare, electronic warfare, avionics, intelligence,
training and space systems needs.



Backlog
in the aerospace and technologies segment was $518 million and
$597 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and consists
of the aggregate contract value of firm orders, excluding amounts previously
recognized as revenue. The 2009 backlog includes $344 million expected
to be recognized in revenues during 2010, with the remainder expected to be
recognized in revenues thereafter. Unfunded amounts included in backlog for
certain firm government orders, which are subject to annual funding, were
$261 million and $309 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. Year-over-year comparisons of backlog are not necessarily
indicative of the trend of future operations.



On
February 15, 2008, the segment completed the sale of its shares in Ball
Solutions Group Pty Ltd (BSG) to QinetiQ Pty Ltd for approximately $10.5
million, including cash sold of $1.8 million. BSG was previously a wholly owned
Australian subsidiary that provided services to the Australian department of
defense and related government agencies. After an adjustment for working capital
items, the sale resulted in a pretax gain of $7.1 million.



Ball’s
aerospace and technologies segment has contracts with the U.S. government or its
contractors that have standard termination provisions. The government retains
the right to terminate contracts at its convenience. However, if contracts are
terminated in this manner, Ball is entitled to reimbursement for allowable costs
and profits on authorized work performed through the date of termination. U.S.
government contracts are also subject to reduction or modification in the event
of changes in government requirements or budgetary constraints.



Patents



In the
opinion of the company, none of its active patents is essential to the
successful operation of its business as a whole.



Research
and Development



Research
and development (R&D) efforts in the North American packaging segments, as
well as in the European metal beverage container business, are primarily
directed toward packaging innovation, specifically the development of new
features, sizes, shapes and types of containers, as well as new uses for
existing containers. Other R&D efforts in these segments seek to improve
manufacturing efficiencies. Our North American packaging R&D activities are
primarily conducted in the Ball Technology & Innovation Center (BTIC)
located in Westminster, Colorado. The European R&D activities are primarily
conducted in a technical center located in Bonn, Germany.



In our
aerospace business, we continue to focus our R&D activities on the design,
development and manufacture of innovative aerospace systems. This includes the
production of spacecraft, instruments and sensors, radio frequency and microwave
technologies, data exploitation solutions and a variety of advanced aerospace
technologies and products that enable deep space missions. Our aerospace R&D
activities are conducted in various locations in the U.S.



Additional
information regarding company research and development activity is contained in
Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this
report, as well as included in Item 2, “Properties.”



Sustainability
and the Environment



Throughout
our company’s history, we have focused on sustainability and the environment in
all aspects of our businesses and recently have formalized our initiatives. We
continue to make progress on the sustainability goals stated in the
sustainability report we issued in June 2008. We have committed to formally
report on the status of our sustainability efforts in 2010.



Key
issues for our company include reducing our use of electricity and natural gas,
reducing waste and increasing recycling at our facilities, analyzing and
reducing our water consumption, reducing our existing volatile organic compounds
and further improving safety performance in our facilities.



The 2008
recycling rate in the United States for aluminum cans was 54 percent, the
highest recycling rate for any beverage container. Other 2008 U.S. recycling
rates were 65 percent for steel cans, 27 percent for PET bottles and
11 percent for polypropylene bottles. According to the most recently
published data, the aluminum can sheet we buy contains an average of
44 percent post consumer recycled content and the average post consumer
recycled content for steel cans is 28 percent.



Page 6 of





Recycling
rates vary throughout Europe but average around 60 percent for aluminum and
steel containers, which exceeds the European Union’s goal of 50 percent
recycling for metals. Due in part to the intrinsic value of aluminum and steel,
metal packaging recycling rates in Europe compare favorably to those of other
packaging materials. Ball’s European operations help establish and financially
support recycling initiatives in growing markets, such as Poland and Serbia, to
educate consumers about the benefits of recycling aluminum and steel cans and to
increase recycling rates. We have initiated a similar program in China to
educate consumers in that market regarding the benefits of
recycling.



Compliance
with federal, state and local laws relating to protection of the environment has
not had a material adverse effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or
competitive position of the company. As more fully described under Item 3,
“Legal Proceedings,” the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and various state
environmental agencies have designated the company as a potentially responsible
party, along with numerous other companies, for the cleanup of several
hazardous waste sites. However, the company’s information at this time indicates
that these matters will not have a material adverse effect upon the liquidity,
results of operations or financial condition of the company.



Legislation
that would prohibit, tax or restrict the sale or use of certain types of
containers, or would require diversion of solid wastes, including packaging
materials, from disposal in landfills, has been or may be introduced anywhere we
operate. While container legislation has been adopted in some jurisdictions,
similar legislation has been defeated in public referenda and legislative bodies
in numerous others. The company anticipates that continuing efforts will be made
to consider and adopt such legislation in many jurisdictions in the future. If
such legislation were widely adopted, it could potentially have a material
adverse effect on the business of the company, including its liquidity, results
of operations or financial condition, as well as on the container manufacturing
industry generally, in view of the company’s substantial global sales and
investment in metal and PET container manufacturing. However, the packages we
produce are widely used and perform well in U.S. states, Canadian provinces and
European countries that have deposit systems.



Employee
Relations



At the
end of 2009, the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately
10,500 employees in the U.S. and 4,000 in other countries. An
additional 1,100 people were employed in unconsolidated joint ventures in
which Ball participates.



Approximately
40 percent of Ball's North American packaging plant employees are unionized and
most of our European plant employees are union workers. Collective bargaining
agreements with various unions in the U.S. have terms of three to five years and
those in Europe have terms of one to two years. The agreements expire at regular
intervals and are customarily renewed in the ordinary course after bargaining
between union and company representatives. The company believes that its
employee relations are good and that its safety, training, education,
diversity and retention practices assist in enhancing employee satisfaction
levels.



Where
to Find More Information



Ball
Corporation is subject to the reporting and other information requirements of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). Reports and
other information filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
pursuant to the Exchange Act may be inspected and copied at the public reference
facility maintained by the SEC in Washington, D.C. The SEC maintains a website
at www.sec.gov containing our reports, proxy materials and other items. The
company also maintains a website atwww.ball.comon which
it provides a link to access Ball’s SEC reports free of charge.



The
company has established written Ball Corporation Corporate Governance
Guidelines; a Ball Corporation Executive Officers and Board of Directors
Business Ethics Statement (Ethics Statement); a Business Ethics booklet; and
Ball Corporation Audit Committee, Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee,
Human Resources Committee and Finance Committee charters. These documents are
set forth on the company’s website atwww.ball.comon the
“Corporate” page, under the section “Investors,” under the subsection “Financial
Information,” and under the link “Corporate Governance.” A copy may also be
obtained upon request from the company’s corporate secretary.



The
company intends to post on its website the nature of any amendments to the
company’s codes of ethics that apply to executive officers and directors,
including the chief executive officer, chief financial officer and controller,
and the nature of any waiver or implied waiver from any code of ethics granted
by the company to any executive officer or director. These postings will appear
on the company’s website atwww.ball.comunder
the “Corporate” page, section “Investors,” under the subsection “Financial
Information,” and under the link “Corporate Governance.”





Page 7 of





