Item 1.Business



Ball Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, Ball, the company, we or our) is one of the world’s leading suppliers of metal packaging to the beverage, food, personal care and household products industries. The company was organized in 1880 and incorporated in the state of Indiana, United States of America (U.S.), in 1922. Our packaging products are produced for a variety of end uses and are manufactured in facilities around the world. We also provide aerospace and other technologies and services to governmental and commercial customers within our aerospace and technologies segment. In 2014, our total consolidated net sales were $8.6 billion. Our packaging businesses were responsible for 89 percent of our net sales, with the remaining 11 percent contributed by our aerospace business.



Our largest product lines are aluminum and steel beverage containers. We also produce steel food, aerosol, paint, general line and decorative specialty containers, as well as extruded aluminum aerosol and beverage containers and aluminum slugs.



We sell our packaging products mainly to large multinational beverage, food, personal care and household products companies with which we have developed long-term customer relationships. This is evidenced by our high customer retention and our large number of long-term supply contracts. While we have a diversified customer base, we sell a majority of our packaging products to relatively few major companies in North America, Europe, Asia and South America, as do our equity joint ventures in the U.S. and Vietnam. Our significant customers include: Anheuser-Busch InBev n.v./s.a., Heineken N.V., MillerCoors LLC, PepsiCo Inc. and its affiliated bottlers, SABMiller plc, The Coca-Cola Company and its affiliated bottlers, and Unilever N.V.



Our aerospace business is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of innovative aerospace systems for civil, commercial and national security aerospace markets. It produces spacecraft, instruments and sensors, radio frequency systems and components, data exploitation solutions and a variety of advanced aerospace technologies and products that enable deep space missions.



We are headquartered in Broomfield, Colorado, and our stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BLL.



On February 19, 2015, the company and Rexam PLC (Rexam) announced the terms of a recommended offer by the company to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Rexam in a cash and stock transaction. Under the terms of the offer, for each Rexam share, Rexam shareholders will receive 407 pence in cash and 0.04568 new shares of the company. The transaction values Rexam at 610 pence per share based on the company’s 90-day volume weighted average price as of February 17, 2015, and an exchange rate of US$1.54: £1 on that date representing an equity value of £4.3 billion ($6.6 billion).



On February 19, 2015, the company entered into a £3.3 billion unsecured bridge loan agreement, pursuant to which lending institutions have agreed, subject to limited conditions, to provide financing necessary to pay the cash portion of the consideration payable to Rexam shareholders upon consummation of the proposed acquisition of Rexam and related fees and expenses.



On February 19, 2015, the company entered into a new $3 billion revolving credit facility to replace the existing approximate $1.1 billion bank credit facility, redeem the 2020 and 2021 senior notes and provide ongoing liquidity for the company.



In addition, on February 19, 2015, the company announced the redemption of all of the outstanding 6.75 percent senior notes due in September 2020 and all of the 5.75 percent senior notes due in May 2021, each in the amount of $500 million. The redemption of these bonds will result in a pre-tax charge in interest expense of approximately $56.3 million ($36.9 million after tax), composed of the redemption premiums and the write-offs of related debt financing costs.



Our Strategy



Our overall business strategy is defined by our Drive for 10 vision, which at its highest level is a mindset around perfection, with a greater sense of urgency around our future success. Launched in 2011, our Drive for 10 vision encompasses five strategic levers that are key to growing our businesses and achieving long-term success. These five levers are:



·Maximizing value in our existing businesses

·Expanding into new products and capabilities

·Aligning ourselves with the right customers and markets

·Broadening our geographic reach and

·Leveraging our know-how and technological expertise to provide a competitive advantage



We also maintain a clear and disciplined financial strategy focused on improving shareholder returns through:



·Delivering earnings per share growth of 10 percent to 15 percent per annum over the long-term

·Focusing on free cash flow generation

·Increasing Economic Value Added (EVA®) dollars



The cash generated by our businesses is used primarily: (1) to finance the company’s operations, (2) to fund strategic capital investments, (3) to return to our shareholders via stock buy-back programs and dividend payments and (4) to service the company’s debt. We will, when we believe it will benefit the company and our shareholders, make strategic acquisitions, enter into joint ventures or divest parts of our company. The compensation of many of our employees is tied directly to the company’s performance through our EVA®-based incentive programs.











Our Reporting Segments



Ball Corporation reports its financial performance in four reportable segments: (1) metal beverage packaging, Americas and Asia; (2) metal beverage packaging, Europe; (3) metal food and household products packaging; and (4) aerospace and technologies. Ball also has investments in the U.S. and Vietnam that are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and, accordingly, those results are not included in segment sales or earnings. Financial information related to each of our segments is included in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (annual report).



Metal Beverage Packaging, Americas and Asia, Segment



Metal beverage packaging, Americas and Asia, is Ball’s largest segment, accounting for 50 percent of consolidated net sales in 2014. Metal beverage containers are primarily sold under multi-year supply contracts to fillers of carbonated soft drinks, beer, energy drinks and other beverages.



Americas



Metal beverage containers and ends are produced at 15 manufacturing facilities in the U.S., one in Canada and four in Brazil. Ends are produced within three of the U.S. facilities, including one facility that manufactures only ends, and one facility in Brazil. Additionally, Rocky Mountain Metal Container, LLC, a 50-percent investment owned by Ball and MillerCoors LLC, operates metal beverage container and end manufacturing facilities in Golden, Colorado.



The North American metal beverage container manufacturing industry is relatively mature, and industry volumes for certain types of containers have declined over the past several years. Where growth or contractions are projected in certain markets or for certain products, Ball undertakes selected capacity increases or decreases in its existing facilities to meet market demand. A meaningful portion of the industry-wide reduction in demand for standard 12-ounce aluminum cans for the carbonated soft drink market is being offset with the growing demand for specialty container volumes from new and existing customers. In February 2015, we announced the introduction of a next-generation aluminum bottle-shaping technology in our Conroe, Texas, facility for a customer under a long-term arrangement that is expected to begin at the end of the first quarter of 2015.



According to publicly available information and company estimates, the combined Americas metal beverage container industry represents approximately 117 billion units. Five companies manufacture substantially all of the metal beverage containers in the U.S. and Canada and three companies manufacture substantially all such containers in Brazil. Two of these producers and three other independent producers also manufacture metal beverage containers in Mexico. Ball produced approximately 41 billion recyclable metal beverage containers in the Americas in 2014 — about 35 percent of the aggregate production in these markets. Sales volumes of metal beverage containers in North America tend to be highest during the period from April through September while in Brazil, sales volumes tend to be highest from September through December. All of the beverage containers produced by Ball in the U.S., Canada and Brazil are made of aluminum, as are almost all beverage containers produced by our competitors in those countries. In the Americas, six suppliers provide virtually all our aluminum can and end sheet requirements.



Metal beverage containers are sold based on price, quality, service, innovation and sustainability in a highly competitive market, which is relatively capital intensive and is characterized by facilities that run more or less continuously in order to operate profitably. In addition, the metal beverage container competes aggressively with other packaging materials. The glass bottle has maintained a meaningful position in the packaged beer industry, and the polyethylene terephthalate (PET) container has grown in the carbonated soft drink and water industries.



We believe we have limited our exposure related to changes in the costs of aluminum ingot as a result of the inclusion of provisions in most metal beverage container sales contracts to pass through aluminum ingot price changes, as well as through the use of derivative instruments.



Asia



The metal beverage container market in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) is approximately 31 billion containers, of which Ball’s operations represented an estimated 20 percent in 2014. Our percentage of the industry makes us one of the largest manufacturers of metal beverage containers in the PRC with six other manufacturers accounting for an estimated 69 percent of the production. Our operations include the manufacture of aluminum containers and ends in four facilities in the PRC. Our aluminum can and end sheet requirements are provided by several suppliers.











During the first quarter of 2014, the company sold its plastic motor oil container and pail manufacturing business in the PRC. Further details are available in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this annual report. Additionally, in May 2014, we announced the expansion of our Asian operations with the construction of a new one-line beverage can manufacturing facility in Myanmar, which is expected to begin production in early 2016.



During July 2013, the company signed a compensation agreement with the PRC government to close the company’s Shenzhen manufacturing facility and relocate the production capacity by the end of 2013. Further details are available in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this annual report.



We believe we have limited our exposure related to changes in the costs of aluminum ingot as a result of the inclusion of provisions in most metal beverage container sales contracts to pass through aluminum ingot price changes, as well as through the use of derivative instruments.



Metal Beverage Packaging, Europe, Segment



The European metal beverage container market, excluding Russia, is approximately 60 billion containers, and we are the second largest producer with an estimated 30 percent of European shipments. The European market is highly regional in terms of sales growth rates and packaging mix.



The metal beverage packaging, Europe, segment, which accounted for 22 percent of Ball’s consolidated net sales in 2014, supplies two-piece metal beverage containers and ends for producers of carbonated soft drinks, beer, energy drinks and other beverages. The European operations consist of 12 facilities — 10 beverage container facilities and two beverage end facilities — of which four are located in Germany, three in the United Kingdom, two in France and one each in the Netherlands, Poland and Serbia. In addition, Ball is currently renting space on the premises of a supplier in Haslach, Germany, in order to produce the Ball Resealable End (BRE). The European beverage facilities produced approximately 18 billion metal beverage containers in 2014, with approximately 65 percent of those being produced from aluminum and 35 percent from steel. Seven of the beverage container facilities use aluminum and three use steel.



During August 2014, we announced the expansion of our beverage can manufacturing facility in Oss, the Netherlands, with the construction of a new line for aluminum beverage containers and a new warehouse. The new line is expected to begin commercial production in the second quarter of 2015, strengthening our position as a logistical hub for our business in the Benelux area and throughout Europe, the Middle East and Northern Africa.



Sales volumes of metal beverage containers in Europe tend to be highest during the period from May through August with a smaller increase in demand leading up to the winter holiday season in the United Kingdom. Much like other parts of the world, the metal beverage container competes aggressively with other packaging materials used by the European beer and carbonated soft drink industries. The glass bottle is heavily utilized in the packaged beer industry, while the PET container is utilized in the carbonated soft drink, beer, juice and water industries.



European raw material supply contracts are generally for a period of one year, although Ball has negotiated some longer term agreements. In Europe three aluminum suppliers and two steel suppliers provide 97 percent of our requirements. Aluminum is traded primarily in U.S. dollars, while the functional currencies of the European operations are non-U.S. dollars. The company generally tries to minimize the resulting exchange rate risk using derivative and supply contracts in local currencies. Purchase and sales contracts generally include fixed price, floating or pass-through pricing arrangements.



Metal Food and Household Products Packaging Segment



The metal food and household products packaging segment, accounted for 17 percent of consolidated net sales in 2014. Ball produces two-piece and three-piece steel food containers and ends for packaging vegetables, fruit, soups, meat, seafood, nutritional products, pet food and other products. The segment also manufactures and sells aerosol, paint and general line and decorative specialty containers, as well as extruded aluminum aerosol and beverage containers and aluminum slugs. There are a total of 12 facilities in the U.S., four in Europe, one in Canada and one in Mexico that produce these products. In addition, the company manufactures and sells steel aerosol containers in two facilities in Argentina.



During August 2014, we announced the installation of a new extruded aluminum aerosol container line in our DeForest, Wisconsin, facility, which is expected to begin production in the first half of 2015. Additionally, in October 2014, we announced the construction of a new extruded aluminum aerosol container manufacturing facility in India, which is expected to begin production in the second half of 2015. In February 2015, we announced the introduction of a new steel aerosol container manufacturing technology in North America, which is expected to start up in mid-2015.











Sales volumes of metal food containers in North America tend to be highest from May through October as a result of seasonal fruit, vegetable and salmon packs. We estimate our 2014 shipments of approximately 4 billion steel food containers to be approximately 16 percent of total U.S. and Canadian metal food container shipments. We estimate our steel aerosol business accounts for approximately 36 percent of total annual U.S. and Canadian steel aerosol shipments. In the U.S. and Canada, we are the leading supplier of aluminum slugs used in the production of extruded aluminum aerosol containers and estimate our percentage of the total industry shipments to be approximately 87 percent. Ball’s European aluminum aerosol shipments represented approximately 21 percent of total European industry shipments in 2014.



In December 2012, the company acquired a leading producer of extruded aluminum aerosol packaging in Mexico with a single manufacturing facility in San Luis Potosí. The facility produces extruded aluminum aerosol containers for personal care and household products for customers in North, Central and South America and employs approximately 150 people. The acquisition has provided a platform to grow the company’s existing North American extruded aluminum business, providing a new end market for the company’s products, including the company’s ReAlTMtechnology that enables the use of recycled material and meaningful lightweighting in the manufacture of extruded aluminum packaging.



Competitors in the metal food container product line include two national and a small number of regional suppliers and self-manufacturers. Several producers in Mexico also manufacture steel food containers. Competition in the U.S. steel aerosol container market primarily includes three other national suppliers. Steel containers also compete with other packaging materials in the food and household products industry including glass, aluminum, plastic, paper and pouches. As a result, profitability for this product line is dependent on price, cost reduction, service and quality. In North America, three steel suppliers provide approximately 70 percent of our tinplate steel. We believe we have limited our exposure related to changes in the costs of steel tinplate and aluminum as a result of the inclusion of provisions in many sales contracts to pass through steel and aluminum cost changes and the existence of certain other steel container sales contracts that incorporate annually negotiated metal costs.



Cost containment and maximizing asset utilization are crucial to maintaining profitability in the metal food and aerosol container manufacturing industries and Ball is focused on doing so. Toward that end, in February 2013, Ball announced the closure of its metal food and aerosol container manufacturing facility in Elgin, Illinois. The facility, which produced aerosol and specialty steel cans as well as flat steel sheet used by other Ball food and household products packaging facilities, ceased production in the fourth quarter of 2013, and its production capacity was consolidated into other Ball facilities. Ball later announced in November 2013 the closure of its steel aerosol container manufacturing facility in Danville, Illinois. The facility ceased production in December 2014 and its production assets were deployed to other North American metal food and household products packaging facilities.



Aerospace and Technologies Segment



Ball’s aerospace and technologies segment, which accounted for 11 percent of consolidated net sales in 2014, includes national defense hardware, antenna and video component technologies, civil and operational space hardware and systems engineering services. The segment develops spacecraft, sensors and instruments, radio frequency systems and other advanced technologies for the civil, commercial and national security aerospace markets. The majority of the aerospace and technologies business involves work under contracts, generally from one to five years in duration, as a prime contractor or subcontractor for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and other U.S. government agencies. The company competes against both large and small prime contractors and subcontractors for these contracts. Contracts funded by the various agencies of the federal government represented 95 percent of segment sales in 2014.



Intense competition and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both the company’s business and the aerospace and defense industry. It is common in the aerospace and defense industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another competitor, become a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting company. It is not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa.



Geopolitical events and shifting executive and legislative branch priorities have resulted in an increase in opportunities over the past decade in areas matching our aerospace and technologies segment’s core capabilities in space hardware. The businesses include hardware, software and services sold primarily to U.S. customers, with emphasis on space science and exploration, environmental and earth sciences, and defense and intelligence applications. Major activities frequently involve the design, manufacture and testing of satellites, remote sensors and ground station control hardware and software, as well as related services such as launch vehicle integration and satellite operations. Uncertainties in the federal government budgeting process could delay the funding, or even result in cancellation of certain programs currently in our reported backlog.











Other hardware activities include target identification, warning and attitude control systems and components; cryogenic systems for reactant storage, and associated sensor cooling devices; star trackers, which are general-purpose stellar attitude sensors; and fast-steering mirrors. Additionally, the aerospace and technologies segment provides diversified technical services and products to government agencies, prime contractors and commercial organizations for a broad range of information warfare, electronic warfare, avionics, intelligence, training and space systems needs.



Backlog in the aerospace and technologies segment was $765 million and $938 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and consisted of the aggregate contract value of firm orders, excluding amounts previously recognized as revenue. The 2014 backlog includes $517 million expected to be recognized in revenues during 2015, with the remainder expected to be recognized in revenues thereafter. Unfunded amounts included in backlog for certain firm government orders, which are subject to annual funding, were $410 million and $470 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Year-over-year comparisons of backlog are not necessarily indicative of the trend of future operations due to the nature of varying delivery and milestone schedules on contracts, funding of programs and the uncertainty of timing of future contract awards.



Patents



In the opinion of the company’s management, none of our active patents or groups of patents is material to the successful operation of our business as a whole. We manage our intellectual property portfolio to obtain the durations necessary to achieve our business objectives.



Research and Development



Research and development (R&D) efforts in our packaging segments are primarily directed toward packaging innovation, specifically the development of new features, sizes, shapes and types of containers, as well as new uses for existing containers. Other additional R&D efforts in these segments seek to improve manufacturing efficiencies and the overall sustainability of our products. Our packaging R&D activities are primarily conducted in technical centers located in Westminster, Colorado, and in Bonn, Germany.



In our aerospace business, we continue to focus our R&D activities on the design, development and manufacture of innovative aerospace products and systems. This includes the production of spacecraft, instruments and sensors, radio frequency and system components, data exploitation solutions and a variety of advanced aerospace technologies and products that enable deep space missions. Our aerospace R&D activities are conducted at various locations in the U.S.



Additional information regarding company R&D activity is contained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this annual report, as well as in Item 2, “Properties.”



Sustainability and the Environment



Sustainability is a key part of maximizing value at Ball. In our global operations, we focus our sustainability efforts on employee safety, and reducing energy, water, waste and air emissions. In addition to those operational priorities, we identified innovation, packaging recycling, talent management, responsible sourcing and community engagement as priorities for our corporate sustainability efforts. By continuously working toward reducing the environmental impacts of our products throughout their life cycle, we also improve our financial results. Information about our corporate sustainability management, goals and performance data are available at www.ball.com/sustainability.



The biggest opportunity to further minimize the environmental impacts of metal packaging is to increase recycling rates. Aluminum and steel are infinitely recyclable materials, and metal packaging is already the most recycled packaging in the world. By using recycled material for the production of aluminum and steel, up to 95 percent of the energy used for the production of virgin material can be saved. In some of Ball’s markets such as Brazil, China and several European countries, recycling rates for beverage containers are at or above 90 percent. The recycling rate in the U.S. was 67 percent for aluminum beverage containers (2013) and 71 percent for steel containers (2012). Recycling rates in Europe averaged around 68 percent for aluminum beverage containers (2011) and 74 percent for steel containers (2012).



In several of Ball’s markets we help establish and financially support recycling initiatives. Educating consumers about the benefits of recycling aluminum and steel containers and collaborating with industry partners to create effective collection and recycling systems contribute to increased recycling rates. For more details about programs we support, please visit www.ball.com/recycling.











Employee Relations



At the end of 2014, the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 8,000 employees in the U.S. and 6,500 in other countries. Details of collective bargaining agreements are included within Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this annual report.



Where to Find More Information



Ball Corporation is subject to the reporting and other information requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). Reports and other information filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to the Exchange Act may be inspected and copied at the public reference facility maintained by the SEC in Washington, D.C. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov containing our reports, proxy materials and other items. The company also maintains a website at www.ball.com on which it provides a link to access Ball’s SEC reports free of charge.



The company has established written Ball Corporation Corporate Governance Guidelines; a Ball Corporation Executive Officers and Board of Directors Business Ethics Statement; a Business Ethics booklet; and Ball Corporation Audit Committee, Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, Human Resources Committee and Finance Committee charters. These documents are set forth on the company’s website at www.ball.com/investors, under the link “Corporate Governance.” A copy may also be obtained upon request from the company’s corporate secretary. The company’s sustainability report and updates on Ball’s progress are available at www.ball.com/sustainability.



The company intends to post on its website the nature of any amendments to the company’s codes of ethics that apply to executive officers and directors, including the chief executive officer, chief financial officer and controller, and the nature of any waiver or implied waiver from any code of ethics granted by the company to any executive officer or director. These postings will appear on the company’s website at www.ball.com/investors, under the link “Corporate Governance.”



