Item 1.Business



Ball Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries (Ball, we, the company or our) is one of the world’s leading suppliers of metal packaging to the beverage, food, personal care and household products industries. The company was organized in 1880 and incorporated in the state of Indiana, United States of America (U.S.), in 1922. Our packaging products are produced for a variety of end uses and are manufactured in facilities around the world. We also provide aerospace and other technologies and services to governmental and commercial customers within our aerospace and technologies segment. In 2011, our total consolidated net sales were $8.6 billion. Our packaging businesses were responsible for 91 percent of our net sales, with the remaining 9 percent contributed by our aerospace business.



Our largest product lines are aluminum and steel beverage containers. We also produce steel food containers and steel and aluminum aerosol containers for beverages, food, personal care and household products, as well as steel paint cans, decorative steel tins and aluminum slugs.



We sell our packaging products mainly to major beverage, food, personal care and household products companies with which we have developed long-term customer relationships. This is evidenced by our high customer retention and our large number of long-term supply contracts. While we have a diversified customer base, we sell a majority of our packaging products to relatively few major companies in North America, Europe, the People’s Republic of China (PRC), Brazil and Argentina, as do our equity joint ventures in the U.S. and Vietnam. Net sales to our major customers, as a percentage of consolidated net sales for 2011, 2010 and 2009, were as follows:



·MillerCoors LLC represented approximately 9.5 percent, 9.9 percent and 11.1 percent, respectively;

·Coca-Cola Bottlers’ Sales & Services Company LLC represented approximately 10.7 percent, 6.1 percent and 6.0 percent, respectively; and

·Pepsi-Cola Advertising and Marketing, Inc., represented approximately 9.1 percent, 11.7 percent and 8.4 percent, respectively.



Our aerospace business is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of innovative aerospace systems for civil, commercial and national security aerospace markets. It produces spacecraft, instruments and sensors, radio frequency systems and components, data exploitation solutions and a variety of advanced aerospace technologies and products that enable deep space missions.



We are headquartered in Broomfield, Colorado, U.S. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BLL.



Our Strategy



Our overall business strategy is defined by our Drive for 10 vision, which at its highest level is a mindset around perfection, with a greater sense of urgency around our future success.  Our Drive for 10 vision encompasses five strategic levers that are key to growing our businesses and achieving long-term success. These five levers are:



·Maximizing value in our existing businesses

·Expanding into new products and capabilities

·Aligning ourselves with the right customers and markets

·Broadening our geographic reach and

·Leveraging our know-how and technological expertise to provide a competitive advantage



We also maintain a clear and disciplined financial strategy focused on improving shareholder returns through:



·Delivering long-term earnings per share growth of 10 percent to 15 percent per annum

·Focusing on free cash flow generation

·Increasing Economic Value Added (EVA®)



The cash generated by our businesses is used primarily: (1) to finance the company’s operations, (2) to fund stock buy-back programs and dividend payments, (3) to fund strategic capital investments and (4) to service the company’s debt. We will, when we believe it will benefit the company and our shareholders, make strategic acquisitions, enter into joint ventures or divest parts of our company. The compensation of many of our employees is tied directly to the company’s performance through our EVA® incentive programs.











Our Reporting Segments



Ball Corporation reports its financial performance in four reportable segments: (1) metal beverage packaging, Americas and Asia; (2) metal beverage packaging, Europe; (3) metal food and household products packaging, Americas; and (4) aerospace and technologies. Ball also has investments in the U.S. and Vietnam which are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and, accordingly, those results are not included in segment sales or earnings. Financial information related to each of our segments is included in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (annual report).



Profitability is sensitive to selling prices, production volumes, labor, transportation, utility and warehousing costs, as well as the availability and price of raw materials, such as aluminum ingot and coils, tinplate steel and other direct materials. These raw materials are generally available from several sources, and we have secured what we consider to be adequate supplies and are not experiencing any shortages. There has been significant consolidation of raw material suppliers in both North America and Europe over the past several years. Raw materials, energy sources and other resources used in production may from time to time be in short supply or unavailable globally due to external factors. We cannot predict the timing or effects, if any, of such occurrences on future operations.



Metal Beverage Packaging, Americas and Asia, Segment



Metal beverage packaging, Americas and Asia, is Ball’s largest segment, accounting for 51 percent of consolidated net sales in 2011. Metal beverage containers are primarily sold under multi-year supply contracts to fillers of carbonated soft drinks, beer, energy drinks and other beverages.



Americas



Metal beverage containers and ends are produced at 18 manufacturing facilities in the U.S., one in Canada and three in Brazil. Can ends are produced within four of the U.S. facilities, including two facilities that manufacture only ends, and one facility in Brazil. Additionally, Rocky Mountain Metal Container, LLC, a 50-percent investment owned by Ball and MillerCoors, LLC, operates metal beverage container and end manufacturing facilities in Golden, Colorado.



Where growth or contractions are projected in certain markets or for certain products, Ball undertakes selected capacity increases or decreases in its existing facilities and may establish additional manufacturing capacity to the extent required by the growth or decline of any of the markets we serve. In January 2011, we announced plans to close our Torrance, California, U.S., facility; relocate a line from the Torrance facility to our Whitby, Ontario, Canada, facility and expand specialty can production in our Fort Worth, Texas, U.S., facility. In February 2011, we announced plans to construct a new metal beverage container manufacturing facility in northeast Brazil, which is one of the fastest growing regions of the country. The new facility will be located in Alagoinhas, Bahia, and is expected to begin production in early 2012. The output from the first line has been contracted under a long-term supply agreement. In the second half of 2011, we reduced capacity in our Columbus, Ohio, U.S., metal beverage container facility.



In August 2010, the company acquired an additional 10.1 percent economic interest in its Brazilian metal beverage packaging joint venture, Latapack-Ball Embalagens Ltda. (Latapack-Ball), through a transaction with the joint venture partner, Latapack S.A. This transaction increased the company’s overall economic interest in the joint venture to 60.1 percent and resulted in Ball becoming the primary beneficiary of the entity and, consequently, consolidating the joint venture.



According to publicly available information and company estimates, the combined Americas metal beverage container industry represents approximately 123 billion units. Five companies manufacture substantially all of the metal beverage containers in the U.S. and Canada and three companies manufacture substantially all such containers in Brazil. Two of these producers and three other independent producers also manufacture metal beverage containers in Mexico. Ball produced approximately 43 billion recyclable metal beverage containers in the Americas in 2011 — about 35 percent of the aggregate production for those markets. Sales volumes of metal beverage containers in North America tend to be highest during the period from April through September while in Brazil, sales volumes tend to be highest from September through December. All of the beverage cans produced by Ball in the U.S., Canada and Brazil are made of aluminum, as are almost all beverage cans produced by our competitors in those countries. In 2011 we were able to recover substantially all aluminum-related cost increases levied by sheet producers through either financial or contractual means. In the metal beverage packaging, Americas, segment, five aluminum suppliers provide virtually all of our requirements.



Metal beverage containers are sold based on price, quality, service, innovation and sustainability in a highly competitive market, which is relatively capital intensive and is characterized by facilities that run more or less continuously in order to operate profitably. In addition, the metal beverage container competes aggressively with other packaging materials.











The glass bottle has maintained a meaningful position in the packaged beer industry, while the PET container has grown significantly in the carbonated soft drink and water industries over the past quarter century.



We believe we have limited our exposure related to changes in the costs of aluminum ingot as a result of the inclusion of provisions in most metal beverage container sales contracts to pass through aluminum ingot price changes, as well as through the use of derivative instruments.



Asia



The metal beverage container market in the PRC is approximately 18 billion containers, of which Ball’s operations represented an estimated 28 percent in 2011. Our percentage of the industry makes us one of the largest manufacturers of metal beverage containers in the PRC, and we plan to prudently add capacity where necessary to continue to supply this growing market. Eight other manufacturers account for the remainder of the production. Our operations include the manufacture of aluminum containers and ends in five facilities in the PRC. We also manufacture and sell high-density plastic containers in two PRC facilities primarily servicing the motor oil industry.



In October 2011, we acquired our partners’ 60 percent interest in Qingdao M.C. Packaging Ltd. (QMCP), a joint venture metal beverage container facility in Qingdao, PRC. The facility is being relocated and expanded in Qingdao, PRC, and is expected to begin production by the end of the first quarter of 2012.  Additionally, in March 2011, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Thai Beverage Can Limited to construct a beverage container manufacturing facility in Vietnam that will begin production in the first quarter of 2012.



In June 2010, we acquired Guangdong Jianlibao Group Co., Ltd’s 65 percent interest in a joint venture metal beverage container and end facility (JFP) in Sanshui (Foshan), PRC. Ball had owned 35 percent of the joint venture facility since 1992. Ball acquired the 65 percent interest for $86.9 million in cash (net of cash acquired) and assumed debt, and also entered into a long-term beverage can supply agreement with Jianlibao and one of its affiliates.



We believe we have limited our exposure related to changes in the costs of aluminum ingot as a result of the inclusion of provisions in most metal beverage container sales contracts to pass through aluminum ingot price changes, as well as through the use of derivative instruments.



Metal Beverage Packaging, Europe, Segment



The European metal beverage container market, excluding Russia, is approximately52 billion containers, and we are the second largest producer with an estimated 30 percent of European shipments. The European market is highly regional in terms of sales growth rates and packaging mix.



In January 2011, Ball completed the acquisition of Aerocan S.A.S. (Aerocan), a leading European supplier of extruded aluminum aerosol containers, for €221.7 million ($295.2 million) in cash and assumed debt, which is net of $26.2 million of cash acquired. The acquisition of Aerocan has enabled Ball to expand into a new product category that is growing faster than other parts of our business, while aligning with a new customer base at returns that meet or exceed the company’s cost of capital. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this annual report for further details.



The metal beverage packaging, Europe, segment, which accounted for 23 percent of Ball’s consolidated net sales in 2011, supplies two-piece metal beverage containers and ends for producers of carbonated soft drinks, beer, energy drinks and other beverages, as well as extruded aluminum aerosol containers and aluminum slugs. The European operations consist of 16 facilities — 10 beverage container facilities, three extruded aluminum aerosol facilities, two beverage end facilities and one aluminum slug facility — of which four are located in Germany, four in the United Kingdom, four in France and one each in the Netherlands, Poland, Serbia and the Czech Republic. In addition, Ball is currently renting additional space on the premises of a supplier in Haslach, Germany, in order to produce the Ball Resealable End (BRE). The European beverage facilities produced approximately 17 billion metal beverage containers in 2011, with approximately 58 percent of those being produced from aluminum and 42 percent from steel. Six of the beverage container facilities use aluminum and four use steel. The European aluminum aerosol facilities produced approximately 700 million aluminum aerosol containers in 2011.



Sales volumes of metal beverage containers in Europe tend to be highest during the period from May through August with a smaller increase in demand leading up to the winter holiday season in the United Kingdom. As in North America, the metal beverage container competes aggressively with other packaging materials used by the European beer and carbonated soft drink industries. The glass bottle is heavily utilized in the packaged beer industry, while the PET container is utilized in the carbonated soft drink, beer, juice and mineral water industries.











European raw material supply contracts are generally for a period of one year, although Ball has negotiated some longer term agreements. In Europe three steel suppliers and four aluminum suppliers provide approximately 95 percent of our requirements. Aluminum is traded primarily in U.S. dollars, while the functional currencies of the European operations are non-U.S. dollars. The company generally tries to minimize the resulting exchange rate risk using derivative and supply contracts in local currencies. In addition, purchase and sales contracts generally include fixed price, floating and pass-through pricing arrangements.



Metal Food and Household Products Packaging, Americas, Segment



The metal food and household products packaging, Americas, segment, accounted for 17 percent of consolidated net sales in 2011. Ball produces two-piece and three-piece steel food containers and ends for packaging vegetables, fruit, soups, meat, seafood, nutritional products, pet food and other products. The segment also manufactures and sells aerosol, paint and general line containers, as well as decorative specialty containers and aluminum slugs. There are a total of 15 facilities in the U.S. and Canada that produce these products. In addition, the company manufactures and sells steel aerosol containers in two facilities in Argentina.



Sales volumes of metal food containers in North America tend to be highest from May through October as a result of seasonal fruit, vegetable and salmon packs. We estimate our 2011 shipments of approximately 5 billion steel food containers to be approximately 18 percent of total U.S. and Canadian metal food container shipments. We estimate our aerosol business accounts for approximately 41 percent of total annual U.S. and Canadian steel aerosol shipments. In the U.S. and Canada, we are the leading supplier of aluminum slugs used in the production of extruded aluminum aerosol containers and estimate our percentage of the total industry shipments to be approximately 98 percent.



Competitors in the metal food container product line include two national and a small number of regional suppliers and self manufacturers. Several producers in Mexico also manufacture steel food containers. Competition in the U.S. steel aerosol container market primarily includes three other national suppliers. Steel containers also compete with other packaging materials in the food and household products industry including glass, aluminum, plastic, paper and the stand-up pouch. As a result, profitability for this product line is dependent on price, cost reduction, service and quality. In North America, two steel suppliers provide nearly 65 percent of our tinplate steel. We believe we have limited our exposure related to changes in the costs of steel tinplate and aluminum as a result of the inclusion of provisions in many sales contracts to pass through steel and aluminum cost changes and the existence of certain other steel container sales contracts that incorporate annually negotiated metal costs. In 2011, we were able to pass through the majority of steel cost increases levied by producers.



Cost containment is crucial to maintaining profitability in the food and aerosol container manufacturing industries and Ball is focused on doing so. Toward that end, in the second quarter of 2011, Ball closed its metal food container manufacturing facility in Richmond, British Columbia; and during prior years, Ball closed its aerosol container manufacturing facilities in Tallapoosa, Georgia, and Commerce, California. The two aerosol facility closures resulted in a net reduction in manufacturing capacity of 10 production lines, including the relocation of two high-speed aerosol lines to other existing Ball facilities, and allowed us to supply customers from a more consolidated asset base.



Aerospace and Technologies Segment



Ball’s aerospace and technologies segment, which accounted for 9 percent of consolidated net sales in 2011, includes national defense hardware; antenna and video component technologies; civil and operational space hardware; and systems engineering services. The segment develops spacecraft, sensors and instruments, radio frequency systems and other advanced technologies for the civil, commercial and national security aerospace markets. The majority of the aerospace and technologies business involves work under contracts, generally from one to five years in duration, as a prime contractor or subcontractor for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and other U.S. government agencies. The company competes against both large and small prime contractors and subcontractors for these contracts. Contracts funded by the various agencies of the federal government represented 87 percent of segment sales in 2011.



Intense competition and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both the company’s business and the aerospace and defense industry. It is common in the aerospace and defense industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another competitor, become a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting company. It is not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa.











Geopolitical events, and shifting executive and legislative branch priorities have resulted in an increase in opportunities over the past decade in areas matching our aerospace and technologies segment’s core capabilities in space hardware. In 2011, we saw an increase in space hardware orders, our traditional strength, combined with continued growth in opportunities related to our information services and tactical components. The businesses include hardware, software and services sold primarily to U.S. customers, with emphasis on space science and exploration, environmental and Earth sciences, and defense and intelligence applications. Major activities frequently involve the design, manufacture and testing of satellites, remote sensors and ground station control hardware and software, as well as related services such as launch vehicle integration and satellite operations. Uncertainties in the federal government budgeting process could delay the funding, or even result in cancellation of certain programs currently in our reported backlog.



Other hardware activities include target identification, warning and attitude control systems and components; cryogenic systems for reactant storage, and associated sensor cooling devices; star trackers, which are general-purpose stellar attitude sensors; and fast-steering mirrors. Additionally, the aerospace and technologies segment provides diversified technical services and products to government agencies, prime contractors and commercial organizations for a broad range of information warfare, electronic warfare, avionics, intelligence, training and space systems needs.



Backlog in the aerospace and technologies segment was $897 million and $989 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and consisted of the aggregate contract value of firm orders, excluding amounts previously recognized as revenue. The 2011 backlog includes $507 million expected to be recognized in revenues during 2012, with the remainder expected to be recognized in revenues thereafter. Unfunded amounts included in backlog for certain firm government orders, which are subject to annual funding, were $470 million and $620 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Year-over-year comparisons of backlog are not necessarily indicative of the trend of future operations due to the nature of varying delivery and milestone schedules on contracts and funding of programs.



Discontinued Operations — Plastic Packaging, Americas



In August 2010, we completed the sale of our plastics packaging, Americas, business to Amcor Limited and received gross proceeds of $258.7 million. This amount included $15 million of contingent consideration recognized at closing and is net of post-closing adjustments of $21.3 million. The sale of our plastics packaging business included five U.S. facilities that manufactured polyethylene terephthalate(PET) bottles and preforms and polypropylene bottles, as well as associated customer contracts and other related assets and liabilities.



Patents



In the opinion of the company’s management, none of our active patents or groups of patents is material to the successful operation of our business as a whole. We manage our intellectual property portfolio to obtain the durations necessary to achieve our business objectives.



Research and Development



Research and development (R&D) efforts in our packaging segments are primarily directed toward packaging innovation, specifically the development of new features, sizes, shapes and types of containers, as well as new uses for existing containers. Other R&D efforts in these segments seek to improve manufacturing efficiencies and the overall sustainability of our products. Our R&D activities are primarily conducted in the Ball Technology & Innovation Center (BTIC) located in Westminster, Colorado, U.S., and in a technical center located in Bonn, Germany.



In our aerospace business, we continue to focus our R&D activities on the design, development and manufacture of innovative aerospace products and systems. This includes the production of spacecraft, instruments and sensors, radio frequency and system components, data exploitation solutions and a variety of advanced aerospace technologies and products that enable deep space missions. Our aerospace R&D activities are conducted at various locations in the U.S.



Additional information regarding company R&D activity is contained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this annual report, as well as included in Item 2, “Properties.”











Sustainability and the Environment



Sustainability is a key part of maximizing value at Ball. We believe that our triple bottom line approach — balancing the economic, environmental and social impacts of our products and operations in our decision-making process — creates long-term value for all of our stakeholders. Our priorities with regard to our people and the environment are to ensure the safety and development of our employees, continue to increase the sustainability of our products and reduce waste and the use of energy and water in our operations.



Metal packaging is the most recycled packaging in the world. The 2010 recycling rate in the U.S. for aluminum cans was 58 percent, the highest recycling rate for any beverage container. The 2009 U.S. recycling rate for steel cans was 66 percent. According to the most recently published data in North America, the aluminum can sheet we buy contains an average of 68 percent total recycled content and the average total recycled content for steel sheet is 33 percent.



Recycling rates vary throughout Europe but average around 64 percent for aluminum containers and 72 percent for steel containers, which exceeds the European Union’s goal of 50 percent recycling for metals. Due in part to the intrinsic value of aluminum and steel, metal packaging recycling rates in Europe compare favorably to those of other packaging materials. Ball’s European operations help establish and financially support recycling initiatives in growing markets, such as Poland and Serbia, to educate consumers about the benefits of recycling aluminum and steel containers and to increase recycling rates. We have initiated a similar program in the PRC to educate consumers in that market regarding the benefits of recycling.



Compliance with federal, state, provincial and local laws relating to protection of the environment has not had a material adverse effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the company. As more fully described in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this annual report, various federal and state environmental agencies have designated the company as a potentially responsible party, along with numerous other companies, for the cleanup of several hazardous waste sites. However, the company’s information at this time indicates that these matters will not have a material adverse effect upon the liquidity, results of operations or financial condition of the company.



While deposit systems and other container-related legislation have been adopted in some jurisdictions, similar legislation has been defeated in public referenda and legislative bodies in many others. The company anticipates that continuing efforts will be made to consider and adopt such legislation in the future. The packages we produce are widely used and perform well in U.S. states, Canadian provinces and European countries that have deposit systems, as well as in other countries world-wide.



Employee Relations



At the end of 2011, the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 9,100 employees in the U.S. and 5,900 in other countries. Details of collective bargaining agreements are included within Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this annual report.



Where to Find More Information



Ball Corporation is subject to the reporting and other information requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). Reports and other information filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to the Exchange Act may be inspected and copied at the public reference facility maintained by the SEC in Washington, D.C. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov containing our reports, proxy materials and other items. The company also maintains a website at www.ball.com on which it provides a link to access Ball’s SEC reports free of charge.



The company has established written Ball Corporation Corporate Governance Guidelines; a Ball Corporation Executive Officers and Board of Directors Business Ethics Statement; a Business Ethics booklet; and Ball Corporation Audit Committee, Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, Human Resources Committee and Finance Committee charters. These documents are set forth on the company’s website at www.ball.com, under the link “Investors,” and then under the link “Corporate Governance.” A copy may also be obtained upon request from the company’s corporate secretary. The company’s sustainability report and updates on Ball’s progress are available at www.ball.com/sustainability.











The company intends to post on its website the nature of any amendments to the company’s codes of ethics that apply to executive officers and directors, including the chief executive officer, chief financial officer and controller, and the nature of any waiver or implied waiver from any code of ethics granted by the company to any executive officer or director. These postings will appear on the company’s website at www.ball.com under the link “Investors,” and then under the link “Corporate Governance.”



