Item 1.Business



Ball Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, Ball, the company, we or our) is one of the world’s leading suppliers of metal packaging to the beverage, food, personal care and household products industries. The company was organized in 1880 and incorporated in the state of Indiana, United States of America (U.S.), in 1922. Our packaging products are produced for a variety of end uses and are manufactured in facilities around the world. We also provide aerospace and other technologies and services to governmental and commercial customers within our aerospace and technologies segment. In 2013, our total consolidated net sales were $8.5 billion. Our packaging businesses were responsible for 89 percent of our net sales, with the remaining 11 percent contributed by our aerospace business.



Our largest product lines are aluminum and steel beverage containers. We also produce steel food, aerosol, paint, general line and decorative specialty containers, as well as extruded aluminum aerosol and beverage containers and aluminum slugs.



We sell our packaging products mainly to major beverage, food, personal care and household products companies with which we have developed long-term customer relationships. This is evidenced by our high customer retention and our large number of long-term supply contracts. While we have a diversified customer base, we sell a majority of our packaging products to relatively few major companies in North America, Europe, the People’s Republic of China (PRC), Brazil, Mexico and Argentina, as do our equity joint ventures in the U.S. and Vietnam. Our significant customers include: Anheuser-Busch InBev n.v./s.a., Heineken N.V., MillerCoors LLC, PepsiCo Inc. and its affiliated bottlers, SABMiller plc, The Coca-Cola Company and its affiliated bottlers, and Unilever N.V.



Our aerospace business is a leader in the design, development and manufacture of innovative aerospace systems for civil, commercial and national security aerospace markets. It produces spacecraft, instruments and sensors, radio frequency systems and components, data exploitation solutions and a variety of advanced aerospace technologies and products that enable deep space missions.



We are headquartered in Broomfield, Colorado, and our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BLL.



Our Strategy



Our overall business strategy is defined by our Drive for 10 vision, which at its highest level is a mindset around perfection, with a greater sense of urgency around our future success. Launched in 2011, our Drive for 10 vision encompasses five strategic levers that are key to growing our businesses and achieving long-term success. These five levers are:



·Maximizing value in our existing businesses

·Expanding into new products and capabilities

·Aligning ourselves with the right customers and markets

·Broadening our geographic reach and

·Leveraging our know-how and technological expertise to provide a competitive advantage



We also maintain a clear and disciplined financial strategy focused on improving shareholder returns through:



·Delivering earnings per share growth of 10 percent to 15 percent per annum over the long-term

·Focusing on free cash flow generation

·Increasing Economic Value Added (EVA®) dollars



The cash generated by our businesses is used primarily: (1) to finance the company’s operations, (2) to fund strategic capital investments, (3) to return to our shareholders via stock buy-back programs and dividend payments and (4) to service the company’s debt. We will, when we believe it will benefit the company and our shareholders, make strategic acquisitions, enter into joint ventures or divest parts of our company. The compensation of many of our employees is tied directly to the company’s performance through our EVA®-based incentive programs.











Our Reporting Segments



Ball Corporation reports its financial performance in four reportable segments: (1) metal beverage packaging, Americas and Asia; (2) metal beverage packaging, Europe; (3) metal food and household products packaging; and (4) aerospace and technologies. On January 1, 2013, the company implemented changes to its management and internal reporting structure. As a result, the European extruded aluminum business, which was previously included in the metal beverage packaging, Europe, segment is now included in the metal food and household products packaging segment. Ball also has investments in the U.S. and Vietnam which are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and, accordingly, those results are not included in segment sales or earnings. Financial information related to each of our segments is included in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (annual report).



Metal Beverage Packaging, Americas and Asia, Segment



Metal beverage packaging, Americas and Asia, is Ball’s largest segment, accounting for 49 percent of consolidated net sales in 2013. Metal beverage containers are primarily sold under multi-year supply contracts to fillers of carbonated soft drinks, beer, energy drinks and other beverages.



Americas



Metal beverage containers and ends are produced at 15 manufacturing facilities in the U.S., one in Canada and four in Brazil. Ends are produced within three of the U.S. facilities, including one facility that manufactures only ends, and one facility in Brazil. Additionally, Rocky Mountain Metal Container, LLC, a 50-percent investment owned by Ball and MillerCoors LLC, operates metal beverage container and end manufacturing facilities in Golden, Colorado.



The North American metal beverage container manufacturing industry is relatively mature, and industry volumes for certain types of containers have declined over the past several years. Where growth or contractions are projected in certain markets or for certain products, Ball undertakes selected capacity increases or decreases in its existing facilities to meet market demand, which may include both permanent and temporary capacity realignment. A meaningful portion of the industry-wide reduction in demand for standard 12-ounce aluminum cans for the carbonated soft drink market is being offset with the growing demand for specialty container volumes from new and existing customers.



According to publicly available information and company estimates, the combined Americas metal beverage container industry represents approximately 119 billion units. Five companies manufacture substantially all of the metal beverage containers in the U.S. and Canada and three companies manufacture substantially all such containers in Brazil. Two of these producers and three other independent producers also manufacture metal beverage containers in Mexico. Ball produced approximately 40 billion recyclable metal beverage containers in the Americas in 2013 — about 35 percent of the aggregate production. Sales volumes of metal beverage containers in North America tend to be highest during the period from April through September while in Brazil, sales volumes tend to be highest from September through December. All of the beverage containers produced by Ball in the U.S., Canada and Brazil are made of aluminum, as are almost all beverage containers produced by our competitors in those countries. In the metal beverage packaging, Americas, segment, six suppliers provide virtually all our aluminum can and end sheet requirements.



Metal beverage containers are sold based on price, quality, service, innovation and sustainability in a highly competitive market, which is relatively capital intensive and is characterized by facilities that run more or less continuously in order to operate profitably. In addition, the metal beverage container competes aggressively with other packaging materials. The glass bottle has maintained a meaningful position in the packaged beer industry, and the polyethylene terephthalate (PET) container has grown in the carbonated soft drink and water industries.



We believe we have limited our exposure related to changes in the costs of aluminum ingot as a result of the inclusion of provisions in most metal beverage container sales contracts to pass through aluminum ingot price changes, as well as through the use of derivative instruments.



Asia



The metal beverage container market in the PRC is approximately 25 billion containers, of which Ball’s operations represented an estimated 22 percent in 2013. Our percentage of the industry makes us one of the largest manufacturers of metal beverage containers in the PRC with five other manufacturers accounting for an estimated 67 percent of the production. Our operations include the manufacture of aluminum containers and ends in four facilities in the PRC. We also manufacture and sell high-density plastic containers in two PRC facilities primarily servicing the motor oil industry.











During July 2013, the company signed a compensation agreement with the PRC government to close the Shenzhen manufacturing facility and relocate the production capacity by the end of 2013. Further details are available in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this annual report.



We believe we have limited our exposure related to changes in the costs of aluminum ingot as a result of the inclusion of provisions in most metal beverage container sales contracts to pass through aluminum ingot price changes, as well as through the use of derivative instruments.



Metal Beverage Packaging, Europe, Segment



The European metal beverage container market, excluding Russia, is approximately 59 billion containers, and we are the second largest producer with an estimated 30 percent of European shipments. The European market is highly regional in terms of sales growth rates and packaging mix.



The metal beverage packaging, Europe, segment, which accounted for 22 percent of Ball’s consolidated net sales in 2013, supplies two-piece metal beverage containers and ends for producers of carbonated soft drinks, beer, energy drinks and other beverages. The European operations consist of 12 facilities — 10 beverage container facilities and two beverage end facilities — of which four are located in Germany, three in the United Kingdom, two in France and one each in the Netherlands, Poland and Serbia. In addition, Ball is currently renting space on the premises of a supplier in Haslach, Germany, in order to produce the Ball Resealable End (BRE). The European beverage facilities produced approximately 18 billion metal beverage containers in 2013, with approximately 63 percent of those being produced from aluminum and 37 percent from steel. Seven of the beverage container facilities use aluminum and three use steel.



Sales volumes of metal beverage containers in Europe tend to be highest during the period from May through August with a smaller increase in demand leading up to the winter holiday season in the United Kingdom. Much like other parts of the world, the metal beverage container competes aggressively with other packaging materials used by the European beer and carbonated soft drink industries. The glass bottle is heavily utilized in the packaged beer industry, while the PET container is utilized in the carbonated soft drink, beer, juice and water industries.



European raw material supply contracts are generally for a period of one year, although Ball has negotiated some longer term agreements. In Europe three aluminum suppliers and two steel suppliers provide 93 percent of our requirements. Aluminum is traded primarily in U.S. dollars, while the functional currencies of the European operations are non-U.S. dollars. The company generally tries to minimize the resulting exchange rate risk using derivative and supply contracts in local currencies. In addition, purchase and sales contracts generally include fixed price, floating and pass-through pricing arrangements.



Metal Food and Household Products Packaging Segment



On January 1, 2013, the company implemented changes to its management and internal reporting structure. As a result, the European extruded aluminum business, which was previously included in the metal beverage packaging, Europe, segment is now included in the metal food and household products packaging segment.



The metal food and household products packaging segment, accounted for 18 percent of consolidated net sales in 2013. Ball produces two-piece and three-piece steel food containers and ends for packaging vegetables, fruit, soups, meat, seafood, nutritional products, pet food and other products. The segment also manufactures and sells aerosol, paint and general line and decorative specialty containers, as well as extruded aluminum aerosol and beverage containers and aluminum slugs. There are a total of 13 facilities in the U.S., four in Europe, one in Canada and one in Mexico that produce these products. In addition, the company manufactures and sells steel aerosol containers in two facilities in Argentina.



Sales volumes of metal food containers in North America tend to be highest from May through October as a result of seasonal fruit, vegetable and salmon packs. We estimate our 2013 shipments of approximately 5 billion steel food containers to be approximately 17 percent of total U.S. and Canadian metal food container shipments. We estimate our aerosol business accounts for approximately 38 percent of total annual U.S. and Canadian steel aerosol shipments. In the U.S. and Canada, we are the leading supplier of aluminum slugs used in the production of extruded aluminum aerosol containers and estimate our percentage of the total industry shipments to be approximately 89 percent. Ball’s European aluminum aerosol shipments represented approximately 21 percent of total European industry shipments in 2013.











In December 2012, the company acquired a leading producer of extruded aluminum aerosol packaging in Mexico with a single manufacturing facility in San Luis Potosí. The facility produces extruded aluminum aerosol containers for personal care and household products for customers in North, Central and South America and employs approximately 150 people. The acquisition has provided a platform to grow the company’s existing North American extruded aluminum business, providing a new end market for the company’s products, including the company’s ReAlTMtechnology that enables the use of recycled material and meaningful lightweighting in the manufacture of extruded aluminum packaging.



Competitors in the metal food container product line include two national and a small number of regional suppliers and self-manufacturers. Several producers in Mexico also manufacture steel food containers. Competition in the U.S. steel aerosol container market primarily includes three other national suppliers. Steel containers also compete with other packaging materials in the food and household products industry including glass, aluminum, plastic, paper and pouches. As a result, profitability for this product line is dependent on price, cost reduction, service and quality. In North America, three steel suppliers provide approximately 65 percent of our tinplate steel. We believe we have limited our exposure related to changes in the costs of steel tinplate and aluminum as a result of the inclusion of provisions in many sales contracts to pass through steel and aluminum cost changes and the existence of certain other steel container sales contracts that incorporate annually negotiated metal costs.



Cost containment and maximizing asset utilization are crucial to maintaining profitability in the metal food and aerosol container manufacturing industries and Ball is focused on doing so. Toward that end, in February 2013, Ball announced the closure of its metal food and aerosol container manufacturing facility in Elgin, Illinois. The facility, which produced aerosol and specialty steel cans as well as flat steel sheet used by other Ball food and household products packaging facilities, ceased production in the fourth quarter of 2013, and its production capacity was consolidated into other Ball facilities. Ball later announced in November 2013 that it will close its steel aerosol container manufacturing facility in Danville, Illinois, in the second half of 2014. The plant’s production assets will be deployed to other North American metal food and household products packaging facilities.



Aerospace and Technologies Segment



Ball’s aerospace and technologies segment, which accounted for 11 percent of consolidated net sales in 2013, includes national defense hardware; antenna and video component technologies; civil and operational space hardware; and systems engineering services. The segment develops spacecraft, sensors and instruments, radio frequency systems and other advanced technologies for the civil, commercial and national security aerospace markets. The majority of the aerospace and technologies business involves work under contracts, generally from one to five years in duration, as a prime contractor or subcontractor for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and other U.S. government agencies. The company competes against both large and small prime contractors and subcontractors for these contracts. Contracts funded by the various agencies of the federal government represented 94 percent of segment sales in 2013.



Intense competition and long operating cycles are key characteristics of both the company’s business and the aerospace and defense industry. It is common in the aerospace and defense industry for work on major programs to be shared among a number of companies. A company competing to be a prime contractor may, upon ultimate award of the contract to another competitor, become a subcontractor for the ultimate prime contracting company. It is not unusual to compete for a contract award with a peer company and, simultaneously, perform as a supplier to or a customer of that same competitor on other contracts, or vice versa.



Geopolitical events, and shifting executive and legislative branch priorities have resulted in an increase in opportunities over the past decade in areas matching our aerospace and technologies segment’s core capabilities in space hardware. The businesses include hardware, software and services sold primarily to U.S. customers, with emphasis on space science and exploration, environmental and earth sciences, and defense and intelligence applications. Major activities frequently involve the design, manufacture and testing of satellites, remote sensors and ground station control hardware and software, as well as related services such as launch vehicle integration and satellite operations. Uncertainties in the federal government budgeting process could delay the funding, or even result in cancellation of certain programs currently in our reported backlog.



Other hardware activities include target identification, warning and attitude control systems and components; cryogenic systems for reactant storage, and associated sensor cooling devices; star trackers, which are general-purpose stellar attitude sensors; and fast-steering mirrors. Additionally, the aerospace and technologies segment provides diversified technical services and products to government agencies, prime contractors and commercial organizations for a broad range of information warfare, electronic warfare, avionics, intelligence, training and space systems needs.











Backlog in the aerospace and technologies segment was $938 million and $1.0 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and consisted of the aggregate contract value of firm orders, excluding amounts previously recognized as revenue. The 2013 backlog includes $578 million expected to be recognized in revenues during 2014, with the remainder expected to be recognized in revenues thereafter. Unfunded amounts included in backlog for certain firm government orders, which are subject to annual funding, were $470 million and $573 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Year-over-year comparisons of backlog are not necessarily indicative of the trend of future operations due to the nature of varying delivery and milestone schedules on contracts and funding of programs.



Patents



In the opinion of the company’s management, none of our active patents or groups of patents is material to the successful operation of our business as a whole. We manage our intellectual property portfolio to obtain the durations necessary to achieve our business objectives.



Research and Development



Research and development (R&D) efforts in our packaging segments are primarily directed toward packaging innovation, specifically the development of new features, sizes, shapes and types of containers, as well as new uses for existing containers. Other additional R&D efforts in these segments seek to improve manufacturing efficiencies and the overall sustainability of our products. Our packaging R&D activities are primarily conducted in the Ball Technology & Innovation Center (BTIC) located in Westminster, Colorado, and in a technical center located in Bonn, Germany.



In our aerospace business, we continue to focus our R&D activities on the design, development and manufacture of innovative aerospace products and systems. This includes the production of spacecraft, instruments and sensors, radio frequency and system components, data exploitation solutions and a variety of advanced aerospace technologies and products that enable deep space missions. Our aerospace R&D activities are conducted at various locations in the U.S.



Additional information regarding company R&D activity is contained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements within Item 8 of this annual report, as well as in Item 2, “Properties.”



Sustainability and the Environment



Sustainability is a key part of maximizing value at Ball. In our global operations, we focus our sustainability efforts on employee safety, and reducing energy, water, waste and air emissions. In addition to those operational priorities, we identified innovation, packaging recycling, talent management, responsible sourcing and community engagement as priorities for our corporate sustainability efforts. By continuously working toward reducing the environmental impacts of our products throughout their life cycle, we also improve our financial results. Information about our corporate sustainability management, goals and performance data are available at www.ball.com/sustainability.



The biggest opportunity to further minimize the environmental impacts of metal packaging is to increase recycling rates. Aluminum and steel are infinitely recyclable materials, and metal packaging is already the most recycled packaging in the world. By using recycled material for the production of aluminum and steel, up to 95 percent of the energy used for the production of virgin material can be saved. In some of Ball’s markets such as Brazil, China and several European countries, recycling rates for beverage containers are at or above 90 percent. Recycling rates in Europe for 2011 averaged around 68 percent for aluminum beverage containers and 74 percent for steel containers. The 2012 recycling rate in the U.S. was 67 percent for aluminum beverage containers and 71 percent for steel containers.



In several of Ball’s markets we help establish and financially support recycling initiatives. Educating consumers about the benefits of recycling aluminum and steel containers and collaborating with industry partners to create effective collection and recycling systems contribute to increased recycling rates. For more details about programs we support, please visit www.ball.com/recycling.



Employee Relations



At the end of 2013, the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 8,200 employees in the U.S. and 6,400 in other countries. Details of collective bargaining agreements are included within Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this annual report.











Where to Find More Information



Ball Corporation is subject to the reporting and other information requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). Reports and other information filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to the Exchange Act may be inspected and copied at the public reference facility maintained by the SEC in Washington, D.C. The SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov containing our reports, proxy materials and other items. The company also maintains a website at www.ball.com on which it provides a link to access Ball’s SEC reports free of charge.



The company has established written Ball Corporation Corporate Governance Guidelines; a Ball Corporation Executive Officers and Board of Directors Business Ethics Statement; a Business Ethics booklet; and Ball Corporation Audit Committee, Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee, Human Resources Committee and Finance Committee charters. These documents are set forth on the company’s website at www.ball.com, under the link “Investors,” and then under the link “Corporate Governance.” A copy may also be obtained upon request from the company’s corporate secretary. The company’s sustainability report and updates on Ball’s progress are available at www.ball.com/sustainability.



The company intends to post on its website the nature of any amendments to the company’s codes of ethics that apply to executive officers and directors, including the chief executive officer, chief financial officer and controller, and the nature of any waiver or implied waiver from any code of ethics granted by the company to any executive officer or director. These postings will appear on the company’s website at www.ball.com under the link “Investors,” and then under the link “Corporate Governance.”



