Item 1.Business.



(a) General Development of Business



General



Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1985. At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc.’s
wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. (“PM USA”), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and certain smokeless products in the United States; UST LLC (“UST”), which through its subsidiaries
is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless products and wine; and John Middleton Co. (“Middleton”), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco. Philip Morris Capital Corporation
(“PMCC”), another wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. held a 27.3% economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc
(“SABMiller”) at December 31, 2009.



Acquisitions

Long-Term Debt

Short-Term
Borrowings and Borrowing Arrangements



On March 28, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its interest in Philip Morris International Inc. (“PMI”) to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. On March 30,
2007, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft Foods Inc. (“Kraft”) on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. For a further discussion of the PMI and Kraft spin-offs,
see Note 1.Background and Basis of Presentationto Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2009 Annual Report.



On December 11, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the
outstanding stock of Middleton for $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition was financed with available cash. For additional discussion on the Middleton acquisition, see Note 3.Acquisitionsto Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial
statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2009 Annual Report.



PM USA is the largest cigarette company in the United States.Marlboro, the principal cigarette brand of this company, has been the largest-selling cigarette brand in the United States since 1972. USSTC is
the leading producer and marketer of moist smokeless tobacco products, including the premium brands,CopenhagenandSkoal,and the value brands,Red SealandHusky.Middleton is a



-1-




manufacturer of machine-made large cigars.Black & Mild, the principal cigar brand of Middleton, is the second largest selling machine-made large cigar in the United States. Ste.
Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarilyChateau Ste. MichelleandColumbia Crest, and owns wineries in or distributes wines from several other wine regions.



In June 2009, the President signed into law the Family Smoking Prevention
and Tobacco Control Act (“FSPTCA”), which provides the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) with broad authority to regulate the design, manufacture, packaging, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of
cigarettes, cigarette tobacco and smokeless tobacco products and disclosures of related information. The FSPTCA also grants the FDA authority to extend the application of the FSPTCA, by regulation, to other tobacco products, including cigars. PM USA
and a subsidiary of USSTC are subject to quarterly user fees as a result of this legislation.



Dividends and Share Repurchases:



Following the Kraft spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft shares would receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria Group,
Inc. prior to the Kraft spin-off. Similarly, following the PMI spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both Altria Group, Inc. and PMI shares would receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria
Group, Inc. prior to the PMI spin-off.



During the third
quarter of 2009, Altria Group, Inc.’s Board of Directors approved a 6.3% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.34 per common share. In January 2010, Altria Group, Inc. changed its dividend payout ratio target from approximately 75% to
approximately 80% of adjusted diluted EPS beginning with its next declared dividend. Consistent with this payout ratio target change, on February 24, 2010, Altria Group, Inc.’s Board of Directors approved a 2.9% increase in the quarterly
dividend to $0.35 per common share. The present annualized dividend rate is $1.40 per Altria Group, Inc. common share. Future dividend payments remain subject to the discretion of Altria Group, Inc.’s Board of Directors.



In September 2009, Altria Group, Inc. suspended indefinitely its $4.0
billion (2008 to 2010) share repurchase program in order to preserve financial flexibility and focus on interest expense reduction. Altria Group, Inc.’s share repurchase program is at the discretion of the Board of Directors. No shares were
repurchased during 2009 under this program. During 2008, Altria Group, Inc. repurchased 53.5 million shares of its common stock at an aggregate cost of approximately $1.2 billion, or an average price of $21.81 per share.



Source of Funds—Dividends



Because Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company, its principal sources of
funds are from the payment of dividends and repayment of debt from its subsidiaries. At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc.’s principal wholly-owned subsidiaries were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to
pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their common stock.



(b) Financial Information About Segments



Beginning with the first quarter of 2009, Altria Group, Inc. revised its reportable segments to reflect the change in the way in which Altria Group, Inc.’s chief operating decision maker reviews the business
as a result of the acquisition of UST. At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc.’s reportable segments were: cigarettes, smokeless products, cigars, wine and financial services. Net revenues and operating companies income (together with
reconciliation to earnings from continuing operations before income taxes) attributable to each such segment for each of the last three years are set forth in Note 17.Segment Reportingto Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial
statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2009 Annual Report.



-2-




Altria Group, Inc.’s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income to
evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Operating companies income for the segments excludes general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles. Interest and other debt expense, net (consumer products), and provision for income
taxes are centrally managed at the corporate level and, accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by Altria Group, Inc.’s chief operating decision maker. The
accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.Summary of Significant Accounting Policiesto Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements and are incorporated herein by reference to the 2009
Annual Report.



The relative percentages of operating
companies income attributable to each reportable segment were as follows:



200920082007Cigarettes85.3%95.4%92.1%Smokeless products6.4Cigars3.03.20.1Wine0.7Financial services4.61.47.8100.0%100.0%100.0%



Changes in the relative percentages above reflect the following:



•In January 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST, the results of which are reflected in the smokeless products and wine segments.



•In December 2007, Altria Group, Inc. acquired Middleton, the results of which are reflected in the cigars segment.



•In 2008, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $100 million, primarily as a result of credit rating downgrades of certain leases and financial market
conditions. Financial services results during 2007 included pre-tax gains of $214 million on the sale of its ownership interests and bankruptcy claims in certain leveraged lease investments in aircraft, which represented a partial recovery, in cash,
of amounts that had been previously written down.



(c) Narrative Description of Business



Tobacco Space



PM USA is engaged in the
manufacture and sale of cigarettes and certain smokeless products in the United States.



USSTC and other subsidiaries of UST are engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless products to customers, substantially all of whom are located in the United States.



Middleton is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large
cigars and pipe tobacco to customers, substantially all of whom are located in the United States.



Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco operating companies believe that a number of adult tobacco consumers switch between tobacco categories and use
different kinds of tobacco products.



During the second
quarter of 2009, Altria Group, Inc. created two new service organizations. Altria Sales & Distribution Inc. serves as agent for Altria Group, Inc.’s three tobacco operating companies in



-3-




their interactions with tobacco wholesalers and retailers. Altria Consumer Engagement Services Inc. executes one-to-one adult consumer programs for the three tobacco operating companies.



Cigarettes



PM USA is the largest tobacco company in the United States, with total
cigarette shipments in the United States of 148.7 billion units in 2009, a decrease of 12.2% from 2008.



PM USA’s major premium brands areMarlboro, Virginia SlimsandParliament. Its principal discount brand isBasic. All of its
brands are marketed to take into account differing preferences of adult smokers.Marlborois the largest-selling cigarette brand in the United States, with shipments of 126.5 billion units in 2009 (down 10.6% from 2008).



In the premium segment, PM USA’s 2009 shipment volume decreased 11.8%
from 2008, and its shipment volume in the discount segment decreased 17.4%. Shipments of premium cigarettes accounted for 93.0% of PM USA’s total 2009 volume, up from 92.6% in 2008.



The following table summarizes cigarettes segment volume performance by brand, which includes units sold, as well as
promotional units, but excludes Puerto Rico, U.S. Territories, Overseas Military, Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and 2008 contract manufacturing for PMI (terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008):



Shipment VolumeFor the Years EndedDecember 31,200920082007(in billion units)Marlboro126.5141.5144.4Parliament4.05.56.0Virginia Slims5.26.37.0Basic9.212.113.2Other3.84.04.5Total Cigarettes148.7169.4175.1



Effective in the first quarter of 2009, cigarettes segment retail share results are based on data from the Information Resources, Inc. (“IRI”)/Capstone Integrated Retail Panel, which is a customized
retail tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share performance in retail stores selling cigarettes. The panel was not designed to capture sales through other channels, including the Internet and direct mail. This service
was developed to provide a comprehensive measure of market share in retail outlets selling cigarettes similar to the previous service. Market share data for 2008 have been restated to reflect this service. Due to the commencement date of the new
panel, market share data for 2007 have not been restated and accordingly are not presented below. A comparison of unrestated market share data for 2008 and 2007 can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” in the 2009 Annual Report.



-4-




The following table summarizes cigarettes retail share performance based on this retail tracking
service:



Retail ShareFor Years EndedDecember 31,20092008Marlboro41.8%41.9%Parliament1.61.9Virginia Slims1.82.0Basic3.43.8Other1.31.3Total Cigarettes49.9%50.9%



PM USA ceased production at its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and completed the consolidation of its cigarette manufacturing capacity into its Richmond, Virginia facility on July 29, 2009. PM
USA expects to complete the de-commissioning of the Cabarrus facility during 2010.



Smokeless products



USSTC is the leading
producer and marketer of smokeless products, including the premium brands,CopenhagenandSkoal, and the value brands,Red SealandHusky. In addition, the smokeless products segment includesMarlborosnus, a PM
USA spit-less smokeless tobacco product. For volume and share measurement purposes, USSTC and PM USA define smokeless products as MST and spit-less tobacco products. One pack of snus or other spit-less tobacco product is equivalent to a can of MST.



The smokeless products segment domestic shipment volume for
the period January 6, 2009 through December 31, 2009 was 634.7 million units (measured in cans and packs). Including the volume of 10.9 million cans shipped from January 1 through January 5, 2009, the period prior to
Altria Group, Inc.’s acquisition of UST, total volume for the full year ended December 31, 2009 was 645.6 million units (measured in cans and packs). The smokeless products segment domestic shipment volume for 2009 declined 2.4%
versus 2008.



The following table summarizes smokeless
products segment volume performance by brand (full year results), which includes cans and packs sold, as well as promotional units, but excludes international volume. Other includesMarlborosnus. Volume from 2008 represents only domestic
volume shipped by USSTC prior to the UST acquisition.



Shipment VolumeFor the Years EndedDecember 31,20092008(cans and packsin millions)Copenhagen280.6276.9Skoal265.4271.8Copenhagen and Skoal546.0548.7Red Seal/Other99.6112.7Total Smokeless products645.6661.4



-5-




The smokeless products segment retail share performance is based on data from IRI, InfoScan Smokeless
Tobacco Database for Food, Drug, Mass Merchandisers (excluding Wal-Mart) and Convenience trade classes, which tracks smokeless products market share performance. It is IRI’s standard practice to periodically refresh their InfoScan syndicated
services, and therefore prior period retail share results have been restated.



The following table summarizes the smokeless products segment sequential retail share performance (full quarterly results, excluding international volume):



Retail Share 2009FourthQuarterThirdQuarterSecondQuarterFirstQuarterCopenhagen24.7%23.2%23.0%23.8%Skoal23.423.623.924.1Red Seal/Other6.67.07.48.4Total Smokeless Products54.7%53.8%54.3%56.3%



Cigars



The
cigars segment shipment volume in 2009 decreased 3.6% versus 2008 to 1,259 million units. The following table summarizes cigars segment volume performance:



Shipment VolumeFor the Years EndedDecember 31,200920082007(units in millions)Black & Mild1,2281,2661,181Other314149Total Cigars1,2591,3071,230



Middleton achieved a 30.5% retail share of the machine-made large cigars segment for 2009, up 1.2 share points versus the prior-year period. Middleton defines machine-made large cigars as cigars made by machine
that weigh greater than three pounds per thousand, except cigars sold at retail in packages of 20 cigars.Black & Mild’s retail share increased 1.3 share points versus the prior-year period to 29.9% of the machine-made large
cigar segment. Effective with the first quarter of 2009, cigar retail share results are based on data from IRI, InfoScan Cigar Database for Food, Drug, Mass Merchandisers (excluding Wal-Mart) and Convenience trade classes, which tracks machine-made
large cigars market share performance. This service was developed to provide a representation of retail business performance in key trade channels. Market share data for 2008 have been restated to reflect this service. Due to the commencement date
of the new panel, market share data for 2007 have not been restated and accordingly are not presented below. A comparison of unrestated market share data for 2008 and 2007 can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” in the 2009 Annual Report. It is IRI’s standard practice to periodically refresh their InfoScan syndicated services.



-6-




The following table summarizes cigars segment retail share performance:



Retail ShareFor the Years EndedDecember 31,20092008Black & Mild29.9%28.6%Other0.60.7Total Cigars30.5%29.3%



Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials



Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries sell their tobacco products principally to wholesalers (including distributors), large retail organizations, including chain stores, and the armed services.



The market for tobacco products is highly competitive,
characterized by brand recognition and loyalty, with product quality, taste, price, product innovation, marketing, packaging and distribution constituting the significant methods of competition. Promotional activities include, in certain instances
and where permitted by law, allowances, the distribution of incentive items, price promotions and other discounts, including coupons, product promotions and allowances for new products. The tobacco products of Altria Group, Inc.’s subsidiaries
are advertised and promoted through various media, although television and radio advertising of certain tobacco products is prohibited in the United States. In addition, as discussed below in Item 3.Legal Proceedings, PM USA, USSTC and
other U.S. tobacco manufacturers have agreed to other marketing restrictions in the United States as part of the settlements of state health care cost recovery actions.



In the United States, under a contract growing program, PM USA purchases burley and flue-cured leaf tobaccos of various grades and
styles directly from tobacco growers. Under the terms of this program, PM USA agrees to purchase the amount of tobacco specified in the grower contracts. PM USA also purchases its United States tobacco requirements through other sources. In 2003, PM
USA and certain other defendants reached an agreement with plaintiffs to settle a suit filed on behalf of a purported class of tobacco growers and quota-holders. The agreement includes a commitment by each settling manufacturer defendant, including
PM USA, to purchase a certain percentage of its leaf requirements from U.S. tobacco growers over a period of at least ten years. These quantities are subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms of the settlement agreement.



Tobacco production in the United States was historically subject to
government controls, including the production control programs administered by the United States Department of Agriculture (the “USDA”). In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 (“FETRA”) was signed into
law. FETRA provided for the elimination of the federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota-holders. The cost of the buy-out, which is estimated at approximately $9.5 billion,
is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The quota buy-out
payments offset already scheduled payments to the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust (the “NTGST”). PM USA, USSTC, and Middleton are all subject to obligations imposed by FETRA. See Item 3.Legal Proceedings, Health Care
Cost Recovery Litigation—National Grower Settlement Trust for a discussion of the NTGST. Manufacturers and importers of tobacco products, including the tobacco subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc., were also obligated to cover any losses (up to
$500 million) that the government incurred on the disposition of tobacco pool stock accumulated under the previous tobacco price support program. The quota buy-out did not have a material impact on Altria Group, Inc.’s 2009



-7-




consolidated results and Altria Group, Inc. does not currently anticipate that the quota buy-out will have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results in 2010 and beyond.



USSTC purchases burley, dark fire-cured and air-cured tobaccos of various
grades and styles from domestic tobacco growers under a contract growing program as well as from leaf dealers.



Middleton purchases burley and flue-cured tobaccos of various grades and styles through leaf dealers. Middleton does not have a contract growing
program.



Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries
believe there is an adequate supply of tobacco in the world markets to satisfy their current and anticipated production requirements.



Wine



Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST and its premium wine business, Ste. Michelle in January 2009. Ste. Michelle is a producer of premium varietal and
blended table wines. Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarilyChateau Ste. MichelleandColumbia Crest,and owns wineries in or distributes wines from several other wine regions.Ste. Michelle
holds an 85% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori, LLC, which ownsStag’s Leap Wine Cellarsin Napa Valley. Ste. Michelle also ownsConn Creekin Napa Valley andErathin Oregon. In addition, Ste. Michelle distributes
Antinori and Villa Maria Estates wines andChampagne Nicolas Feuillattein the United States.



For the year ended December 31, 2009, Ste. Michelle’s wine shipment volume of 6.0 million cases was 2.1% lower than 2008.



The following table summarizes wine segment case shipment volume
performance by brand. Volume for 2008 represents volume shipped by Ste. Michelle prior to the UST acquisition:



Shipment VolumeFor the Years EndedDecember 31,20092008(cases in thousands)Chateau Ste. Michelle2,0341,931Columbia Crest1,9682,137Other2,0032,066Total Wine6,0056,134



In 2009, Ste. Michelle’s retail volume, as measured by Nielsen Total Wine Database—U.S. Food & Drug, increased 10% versus 2008.



Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials



A key element of Ste. Michelle’s strategy is expanded domestic distribution of its wines, especially in certain
account categories such as restaurants, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, wine shops and mass merchandisers.



Ste. Michelle’s business is subject to significant competition, including competition from many larger, well-established domestic and
international companies, as well as from many smaller wine producers. Wine segment competition is primarily based on quality, price, consumer and trade wine tastings, competitive wine judging, third-party acclaim and advertising. Substantially all
of Ste. Michelle’s sales occur through state-licensed distributors.



-8-




Federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various
means, including licensing requirements, pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies. Further regulatory restrictions or additional excise or other taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages
may have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle’s wine business.



Ste. Michelle uses grapes harvested from its own vineyards or purchased from independent growers, as well as bulk wine purchased from other sources. Grape production can be adversely affected by weather and other
forces that may limit production. At the present time, Ste. Michelle believes that there is a sufficient supply of grapes and bulk wine available in the market to satisfy its current and expected production requirements.



Financial Services



In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began focusing exclusively
on managing its existing portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize gains and generate cash flow from asset sales and related activities. Accordingly, PMCC’s operating companies income will fluctuate over time as investments mature or are
sold. At December 31, 2009, PMCC’s net finance receivables of approximately $4.8 billion in leveraged leases, which is included in finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated balance sheet, consisted of rentals
receivable ($14.4 billion) and the residual value of assets under lease ($1.4 billion), reduced by third-party nonrecourse debt ($9.2 billion) and unearned income ($1.8 billion). The payment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease
payments due under the associated leases and the leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC or Altria Group, Inc. As required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the third-party
nonrecourse debt has been offset against the related rentals receivable and has been presented on a net basis within finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated balance sheets. Finance assets, net, at December 31, 2009, also
included net finance receivables for direct finance leases ($0.3 billion) and an allowance for losses ($0.3 billion).



At December 31, 2009, PMCC’s investment in finance leases was principally comprised of the following investment categories: rail and surface
transport (28%), aircraft (25%), electric power (23%), manufacturing (12%), and real estate (12%).



Business Environment



Portions of the information called for by this Item are hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operating Results by
Business Segment—Tobacco Space—Business Environment” on pages 89 to 94 of the 2009 Annual Report; “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operating Results by Business
Segment—Wine Segment—Business Environment” on page 98 of such report; and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operating Results by Business Segment—Financial
Services Segment—Business Environment” on pages 98 to 99 of such report and made a part hereof.



Other Matters



Customers



The largest customer of PM USA,
USSTC and Middleton, McLane Company, Inc., accounted for approximately 26%, 27%, and 26% of Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These net revenues were reported
in the cigarettes, smokeless products and cigars segments.



-9-




Sales to three distributors accounted for approximately 64% of net revenues for the wine segment for
the year ended December 31, 2009.



Employees



At December 31, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries
employed approximately 10,000 people.



Executive Officers of Altria
Group, Inc.



The disclosure regarding executive
officers is set forth under the heading “Executive Officers as of February 24, 2010” in Item 10 of this Form 10-K and is incorporated by reference herein.



Research and Development



The research and development expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are set forth in Note 19.Additional Informationto Altria Group, Inc.’s financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2009 Annual Report.



Intellectual Property



Trademarks are of material importance to Altria Group, Inc. and its operating companies, and are protected by registration or otherwise. In addition,
as of December 31, 2009, the portfolio of over 500 United States patents owned by Altria Group, Inc.’s businesses, as a whole, was material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco businesses. However, no one patent or a group of related
patents was material to Altria Group, Inc.’s business or its tobacco businesses as of December 31, 2009. We also have proprietary secrets, technology, know-how, processes and other intellectual property rights that are protected by
appropriate confidentiality measures. Certain trade secrets are material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco and wine businesses.



Environmental Regulation



Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the
discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including, in the United States: the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as “Superfund”), which can impose joint and several liability on each responsible party. Subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) of Altria Group, Inc. are involved in several matters
subjecting them to potential costs related to remediations under Superfund or other laws and regulations. Altria Group, Inc.’s subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with environmental laws and
regulations. Although it is not possible to predict precise levels of environmental-related expenditures, compliance with such laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation costs and the making of such expenditures, has not had, and
is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position, earnings or competitive position.



(d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas



Substantially all of Altria Group, Inc.’s net revenues from
continuing operations are from sales generated in the United States for each of the last three fiscal years. As is described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” set forth in the



-10-




Annual Report, subsequent to the PMI spin-off, PM USA recorded net revenues of $298 million from contract volume manufactured for PMI under an agreement that terminated in the fourth quarter of
2008. Subsequent to the PMI spin-off, substantially all of Altria Group, Inc.’s long-lived assets are located in the United States.



(e) Available Information



Altria Group, Inc. is required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Investors may read
and copy any document that Altria Group, Inc. files, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the
Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access Altria Group, Inc.’s SEC filings.



Altria Group, Inc. makes available free of charge on or through its website (www.altria.com), its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after Altria Group,
Inc. electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Investors can access Altria Group, Inc.’s filings with the SEC by visiting www.altria.com/secfilings.



The information on the respective websites of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries is not, and shall not be deemed to
be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings Altria Group, Inc. makes with the SEC.



