Item 1.  Business.

General Development of Business

▪General:Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1985.  AtDecember 31, 2013, Altria Group, Inc.’s direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. (“PM USA”), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and certain smokeless tobacco products in the United States; John Middleton Co. (“Middleton”), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco, and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of PM USA; and UST LLC (“UST”), which through its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, including U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC (“USSTC”) and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. (“Ste. Michelle”), is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless tobacco products and wine.  Nu Mark LLC (“Nu Mark”), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., is engaged in the development and marketing of innovative tobacco products for adult tobacco consumers.  Philip Morris Capital Corporation (“PMCC”), another wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases.  In addition, Altria Group, Inc. held approximately26.8%of the economic and voting interest of SABMiller plc (“SABMiller”) atDecember 31, 2013, which Altria Group, Inc. accounts for under the equity method of accounting.

On January 6, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding common stock of UST.  The transaction was valued at approximately $11.7 billion, which represented a purchase price of $10.4 billion and approximately $1.3 billion of UST debt, which together with acquisition-related costs and payments of approximately $0.6 billion, represented a total cash outlay of approximately $11 billion.  This acquisition was financed with long-term borrowings.  As a result of the acquisition, UST became an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc.

•Source of Funds:Because Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company, its access to the operating cash flows of its wholly-owned subsidiaries consists of cash received from the payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans by its subsidiaries.  AtDecember 31, 2013, Altria Group, Inc.’s principal wholly-owned subsidiaries were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their common stock.  In addition, Altria Group, Inc. receives cash dividends on its interest in SABMiller if and when SABMiller pays such dividends.

Financial Information About Segments

Effective January 1, 2013, Altria Group, Inc.’s reportable segments are smokeable products, smokeless products and wine.  The financial services and the alternative products businesses have been combined in an all other category due to the continued reduction of the lease portfolio of PMCC and the relative financial contribution of Altria Group, Inc.’s alternative products



businesses to Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated results.  Prior years’ amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current year’s presentation.

Altria Group, Inc.’s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income to evaluate the performance of and allocate resources to the segments.  Operating companies income for the segments excludes general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles.  Interest and other debt expense, net and provision for income taxes are centrally managed at the corporate level and, accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by Altria Group, Inc.’s chief operating decision maker.  Net revenues and operating companies income (together with a reconciliation to earnings before income taxes) attributable to each such segment for each of the last three years are set forth in Note 15.Segment Reportingto the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Item 8”).  Information about total assets by segment is not disclosed because such information is not reported to or used by Altria Group, Inc.’s chief operating decision maker.  Segment goodwill and other intangible assets, net, are disclosed in Note 3.Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, netto the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (“Note 3”).The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.Summary of Significant Accounting Policiesto the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (“Note 2”).

The relative percentages of operating companies income (loss) attributable to each reportable segment and the all other category were as follows:

201320122011Smokeable products84.5%83.7%90.5%Smokeless products12.212.513.6Wine1.41.41.4All other1.92.4(5.5)Total100.0%100.0%100.0%



For items affecting the comparability of the relative percentages of operating companies income attributable to each reportable segment, see Note 15.Segment Reportingto the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (“Note 15”).

Narrative Description of Business

Portions of the information called for by this Item are included in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -Operating Results by Business Segmentof this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Tobacco Space

Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco operating companies include PM USA, USSTC and other subsidiaries of UST, Middleton and Nu Mark.  In addition, Altria Group Distribution Company provides











centralized sales, distribution and consumer engagement services for Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco operating companies.

The products of Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries include smokeable tobacco products, comprised of cigarettes manufactured and sold by PM USA and machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco manufactured and sold by Middleton; smokeless tobacco products manufactured and sold primarily by USSTC; and innovative tobacco products, including electronic cigarettes developed and marketed by Nu Mark.  Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries believe that a significant number of adult tobacco consumers switch between tobacco categories or use multiple forms of tobacco products and that approximately 50% of adult smokers say they are interested in trying innovative tobacco products.

▪Cigarettes:PM USA is the largest cigarette company in the United States, with total cigarette shipment volume in the United States of approximately129.3 billionunits in2013, a decrease of4.1%from2012.Marlboro, the principal cigarette brand of PM USA, has been the largest-selling cigarette brand in the United States for over 35 years.

▪Cigars:Middleton is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco to customers, substantially all of which are located in the United States.  Middleton sources the production of a portion of its cigars overseas.  Total shipment volume for cigars was approximately1.2 billionunits in2013, a decrease of3.2%from2012.Black & Mildis the principal cigar brand of Middleton.

▪Smokeless tobacco products:USSTC is the leading producer and marketer of moist smokeless tobacco (“MST”) products.  The smokeless products segment includes the premium brands,CopenhagenandSkoal, value brands,Red SealandHusky,andMarlboroSnus, a premium PM USA spit-free smokeless tobacco product.  Substantially all of the smokeless tobacco products are manufactured and sold to customers in the United States.  Total smokeless products shipment volume was787.5 millionunits in2013, an increase of3.2%from2012.

In addition, Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries have entered the e-vapor category.  In 2013, Nu Mark introducedMarkTenelectronic cigarettes in Indiana and Arizona.  Nu Mark plans to expandMarkTennationally beginning in the second quarter of 2014.  On February 3, 2014, Altria Group, Inc. announced Nu Mark’s entry into an agreement to acquire the e-vapor business of Green Smoke, Inc. and its affiliates, which have been selling e-vapor products since 2009.  Further, in December 2013, Altria entered into a series of agreements with Philip Morris International Inc. (“PMI”) pursuant to which Altria Group, Inc. subsidiaries provide an exclusive license to PMI to sell Altria Group, Inc.’s e-vapor products outside the United States and PMI subsidiaries provide an exclusive license to Altria Group, Inc. subsidiaries to sell two of PMI’s heated tobacco product technologies in the United States.

▪Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials:Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries sell their tobacco products



principally to wholesalers (including distributors), large retail organizations, including chain stores, and the armed services.

The market for tobacco products is highly competitive, characterized by brand recognition and loyalty, with product quality, taste, price, product innovation, marketing, packaging and distribution constituting the significant methods of competition.  Promotional activities include, in certain instances and where permitted by law, allowances, the distribution of incentive items, price promotions and other discounts, including coupons, product promotions and allowances for new products.

In June 2009, the President signed into law the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (“FSPTCA”), which provides the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) with broad authority to regulate the design, manufacture, packaging, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of cigarettes, cigarette tobacco and smokeless tobacco products; the authority to require disclosures of related information; and the authority to enforce the FSPTCA and related regulations.  The law also grants the FDA authority to extend its application, by regulation, to all other tobacco products, including cigars, pipe tobacco and electronic cigarettes.  The FSPTCA imposes restrictions on the advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of tobacco products, including at retail.  The FDA has indicated that it intends to regulate cigars, electronic cigarettes and other tobacco products, but it has not indicated a timeline for the issuance of final regulations.  PM USA and a subsidiary of USSTC are subject to quarterly user fees as a result of this legislation, and the cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product.  PM USA, USSTC and other U.S. tobacco manufacturers have agreed to other marketing restrictions in the United States as part of the settlements of state health care cost recovery actions.

In the United States, under a contract growing program, PM USA purchases burley and flue-cured leaf tobaccos of various grades and styles directly from tobacco growers.  Under the terms of this program, PM USA agrees to purchase the amount of tobacco specified in the grower contracts.  PM USA also purchases a portion of its United States tobacco requirements through leaf merchants.  In 2003, PM USA and certain other defendants reached an agreement with plaintiffs to settle a suit filed on behalf of a purported class of tobacco growers and quota-holders.  The agreement includes a commitment by each settling manufacturer defendant, including PM USA, to purchase a certain percentage of its leaf requirements from U.S. tobacco growers over a period of at least 10 years.  These quantities are subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms of the settlement agreement.

Tobacco production in the United States was historically subject to government controls, including the production control programs administered by the United States Department of Agriculture (the “USDA”).  In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 (“FETRA”) was signed into law.  PM USA, USSTC, and Middleton are all subject to obligations imposed by FETRA.  FETRA eliminated the federal











tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota holders.  The cost of the buy-out is approximately $9.5 billion and is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product.  The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product.  As a result of FETRA, Altria Group, Inc.’s subsidiaries recorded approximately $0.4 billion of charges to cost of sales during each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.  Obligations imposed by FETRA expire after the third quarter of 2014.

In February 2011, PM USA filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging the USDA’s method for calculating the 2011 and future tobacco product class shares that are used to allocate liability for the industry payments that fund the FETRA buy-out described above and used by the FDA to calculate the industry’s FDA user fees.  PM USA asserts in this litigation that the USDA violated FETRA and its own regulations by failing to apply the most current federal excise tax (“FET”) rates enacted by Congress which became effective in April 2009, in calculating the class share allocations.   PM USA has filed administrative appeals of its FETRA assessments beginning in fiscal year 2011 (all of which have been denied by the USDA) and has submitted a petition for rulemaking with the USDA (which petition was denied by the USDA in November 2011), in each case asserting that the USDA erroneously failed to base the FETRA class share allocations on the current FET rates.  PM USA is appealing the USDA’s calculations methodology as well as the denial of the petition for rulemaking and the denial of its quarterly assessment challenges.  The Cigar Association of America has joined the litigation as a defendant intervenor.  In October 2012, the district court dismissed the case over PM USA’s objection and PM USA appealed.  On November 20, 2013, the appellate court affirmed the district court’s decision.

The quota buy-out did not have a material impact on Altria Group, Inc.’s2013consolidated results, and Altria Group, Inc. does not currently anticipate that the quota buy-out will have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results in 2014, when the obligations imposed by FETRA will expire.

USSTC purchases burley, dark fire-cured and air-cured tobaccos of various grades and styles from domestic tobacco growers under a contract growing program as well as from leaf merchants.

Middleton purchases burley and dark air-cured tobaccos of various grades and styles through leaf merchants.  Middleton does not have a contract growing program.

Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries believe there is an adequate supply of tobacco in the world markets to satisfy their current and anticipated production requirements.

Wine

Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST and its premium wine business, Ste. Michelle, in January 2009.  Ste. Michelle is a producer of premium varietal and blended table wines.  Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarilyChateau Ste. Michelle,Columbia Crestand14 Handsand owns wineries



in or distributes wines from several other wineregions and foreign countries.  Ste. Michelle’s total2013wine shipment volume of approximately8.0 millioncases increased5.0%from2012.

Ste. Michelleholds an 85% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori, LLC, which ownsStag’s Leap Wine Cellarsin Napa Valley.  Ste. Michelle also ownsConn Creekin Napa Valley andErathin Oregon.  In addition, Ste. Michelle imports and marketsAntinoriandVilla Maria Estatewines andChampagne Nicolas Feuillattein the United States.

▪Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials:Key elements of Ste. Michelle’s strategy are expanded domestic distribution of its wines, especially in certain account categories such as restaurants, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, wine shops and mass merchandisers, and a focus on improving product mix to higher-priced, premium products.

Ste. Michelle’s business is subject to significant competition, including competition from many larger, well-established domestic and international companies, as well as from many smaller wine producers.  Wine segment competition is primarily based on quality, price, consumer and trade wine tastings, competitive wine judging, third-party acclaim and advertising.  Substantially all of Ste. Michelle’s sales occur through state-licensed distributors.

Federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies.  Further regulatory restrictions or additional excise or other taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages may have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle’s wine business.

Ste. Michelle uses grapes harvested from its own vineyards or purchased from independent growers, as well as bulk wine purchased from other sources.  Grape production can be adversely affected by weather and other forces that may limit production.  At the present time, Ste. Michelle believes that there is a sufficient supply of grapes and bulk wine available in the market to satisfy its current and expected production requirements.

Financial Services Business

In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began focusing exclusively on managing its portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize its operating results and cash flows from its existing lease portfolio activities and asset sales.  For further information on PMCC’s finance assets, see Note 7.Finance Assets, netto the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (“Note 7”).

Other Matters

▪Customers:The largest customer of PM USA, USSTC and Middleton, McLane Company, Inc., accounted for approximately27%of Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated net revenues for each of the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011.  These net revenues were reported in the smokeable products and smokeless products segments.











Sales tothreedistributors accounted for approximately66%of net revenues for the wine segment for each of the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011.

▪Employees:AtDecember 31, 2013, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries employed approximately 9,000 people.

▪Executive Officers of Altria Group, Inc.:The disclosure regarding executive officers is included in Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance -Executive Officers as of February 14, 2014of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

▪Research and Development:Research and development expense for the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011is set forth in Note 17.Additional Informationto the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

▪Intellectual Property:Trademarks are of material importance to Altria Group, Inc. and its operating companies, and are protected by registration or otherwise.  In addition, as ofDecember 31, 2013, the portfolio of over 600 United States patents owned by Altria Group, Inc.’s businesses, as a whole, was material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco businesses.  However, no one patent or group of related patents was material to Altria Group, Inc.’s business or its tobacco businesses as ofDecember 31, 2013.  Altria Group, Inc.’s businesses also have proprietary secrets, technology, know-how, processes and other intellectual property rights that are protected by appropriate confidentiality measures.  Certain trade secrets are material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco and wine businesses.

▪

Environmental Regulation:



Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including, in the United States:  The Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as “Superfund”), which can impose joint and several liability on each responsible party.  Subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) of Altria Group, Inc. are involved in several matters subjecting them to potential costs of remediation and natural resource damages under Superfund or other laws and regulations.  Altria Group, Inc.’s subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with environmental laws and regulations.  As discussed in Note 2

,

Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated.  Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.  Other than those amounts, it is not possible to reasonably estimate the cost of any environmental remediation and compliance efforts that subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. may undertake in the future.  In the opinion of management, however, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation costs or damages and the making of related



expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position or cash flows.

Financial Information About Geographic Areas

Substantially all of Altria Group, Inc.’s net revenues are from sales generated in the United States for each of the last three fiscal years and substantially all of Altria Group, Inc.’s long-lived assets are located in the United States.

Available Information



Altria Group, Inc. is required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  Investors may read and copy any document that Altria Group, Inc. files, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access Altria Group, Inc.’s SEC filings.

Altria Group, Inc. makes available free of charge on or through its website (www.altria.com) its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after Altria Group, Inc. electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.  Investors can access Altria Group, Inc.’s filings with the SEC by visiting www.altria.com/secfilings.

The information on the respective websites of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings Altria Group, Inc. makes with the SEC.



