Item1.Business.



(a) General Development of Business



General



Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1985. At December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc.’s
wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. (“PM USA”), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and certain smokeless products in the United States; UST LLC (“UST”), which through its subsidiaries
is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless products and wine; and John Middleton Co. (“Middleton”), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco. Philip Morris Capital Corporation
(“PMCC”), another wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. held a 27.1% economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc
(“SABMiller”) at December 31, 2010.



As
discussed in Note 3.Acquisitionto Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual Report, on January 6, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding
common stock of UST, whose direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries include U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC (“USSTC”) and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. (“Ste. Michelle”). As a result of the acquisition, UST has become
an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc.



On March 28, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its interest in Philip Morris International Inc. (“PMI”) to Altria Group,
Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. For a further discussion of the PMI spin-off, see Note 1.Background and Basis of Presentationto Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by
reference to the 2010 Annual Report.



On March 30, 2007
(the “Kraft Distribution Date”), Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft Foods Inc. (“Kraft”) on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. Following the Kraft
Distribution Date, Altria Group, Inc. does not own any shares of Kraft. Altria Group, Inc. has reflected the results of Kraft prior to the Kraft Distribution Date as discontinued operations. The Kraft spin-off resulted in a net decrease to Altria
Group, Inc.’s total stockholders’ equity of $30.5 billion on the Kraft Distribution Date.



On December 11, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding stock of Middleton for $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition was financed with available cash.



PM USA is the largest cigarette company in the United States.Marlboro, the principal cigarette brand of this company, has been the largest-selling cigarette brand in the United States for over 30 years. USSTC is the leading producer and marketer of moist smokeless tobacco (“MST”) products,
including the premium brands,CopenhagenandSkoal,and the value brands,Red SealandHusky.Middleton is a manufacturer of machine-made large cigars.Black & Mild, the principal cigar brand of Middleton,
is the second largest selling machine-made large cigar in the United States. Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarilyChateau Ste. MichelleandColumbia Crest, and owns wineries in or distributes wines
from several other wine regions and foreign countries.



In
June 2009, the President signed into law the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (“FSPTCA”), which provides the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) with authority to regulate the design, manufacture,
packaging, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of cigarettes, cigarette tobacco and smokeless tobacco products and the authority to require disclosures



-1-




of related information. The law also grants the FDA authority to extend its application, by regulation, to other tobacco products, including cigars. PM USA and a subsidiary of USSTC are subject
to quarterly user fees as a result of this legislation.



Dividends and
Share Repurchases:



Following the Kraft spin-off,
Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft shares would receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria Group, Inc. prior to the Kraft spin-off. Similarly, following the PMI
spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both Altria Group, Inc. and PMI shares would receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria Group, Inc. prior to the PMI spin-off.



Subsequent to the PMI spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. has increased its
quarterly dividend four times. On February 24, 2010, Altria Group, Inc.’s Board of Directors approved a 2.9% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.35 per common share from $0.34 per common share. On August 27, 2010, Altria Group,
Inc.’s Board of Directors approved an additional 8.6% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.38 per common share, resulting in an aggregate quarterly dividend rate increase of 11.8% since the beginning of 2010. The current annualized dividend
rate is $1.52 per Altria Group, Inc. common share. Altria Group, Inc.’s dividend payout ratio target is approximately 80% of adjusted diluted earnings per share. Future dividend payments remain subject to the discretion of Altria Group,
Inc.’s Board of Directors.



In January 2011, Altria
Group, Inc.’s Board of Directors authorized a new $1.0 billion one-year share repurchase program. Share repurchases under this program depend upon marketplace conditions and other factors. The share repurchase program remains subject to the
discretion of Altria Group, Inc.’s Board of Directors.



During the second quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. repurchased 53.5 million shares of its common stock at an aggregate cost of approximately
$1.2 billion, or an average price of $21.81 per share pursuant to its $4.0 billion (2008 to 2010) share repurchase program. No shares were repurchased during 2010 or 2009 under this share repurchase program, which was suspended in September 2009.
The new share repurchase program replaces the suspended program.



Source of Funds



Because Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company, its principal sources of funds consist of cash received from its wholly-owned subsidiaries from the
payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans. At December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc.’s principal wholly-owned subsidiaries were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their
ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their common stock. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. receives cash dividends on its interest in SABMiller, if and when SABMiller pays such dividends on its stock.



(b) Financial Information About Segments



At December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc.’s reportable
segments were: cigarettes, smokeless products, cigars, wine and financial services. Net revenues and operating companies income (together with reconciliation to earnings from continuing operations before income taxes) attributable to each such
segment for each of the last three years are set forth in Note 17.Segment Reportingto Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual Report.



-2-




Altria Group, Inc.’s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income to
evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Operating companies income for the segments excludes general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles. Interest and other debt expense, net (consumer products), and provision for income
taxes are centrally managed at the corporate level and, accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by Altria Group, Inc.’s chief operating decision maker. The
accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.Summary of Significant Accounting Policiesto Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the
2010 Annual Report.



The relative percentages of operating
companies income attributable to each reportable segment were as follows:



201020092008Cigarettes82.1%85.3%95.4%Smokeless products12.16.4Cigars2.53.03.2Wine0.90.7Financial services2.44.61.4100.0%100.0%100.0%



Changes in the relative percentages above reflect the following:



•UST Acquisition—In January 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST, the results of which are reflected in the smokeless products and wine segments.



•Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs—For a discussion of asset impairment, exit, implementation and integration costs and a
breakdown of these costs by segment, see Note 6.Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Coststo Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual Report.



•PMCC Allowance for Losses—During 2008, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $100 million, primarily as a result of credit rating downgrades of
certain lessees and financial market conditions.



(c) Narrative Description of Business



Tobacco Space



PM USA is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and certain smokeless products in the United States.



USSTC and other subsidiaries of UST are engaged in the manufacture and
sale of smokeless products to customers, substantially all of which are located in the United States.



Middleton is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco to customers, substantially all of which are located
in the United States.



Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco
operating companies believe that a significant number of adult tobacco consumers switch between tobacco categories and use multiple forms of tobacco products.



-3-




Altria Sales & Distribution Inc. provides centralized sales, merchandising and distribution
services to Altria Group, Inc.’s three tobacco operating companies. Altria Consumer Engagement Services Inc. provides marketing and promotion services to Altria Group, Inc.’s three tobacco operating companies primarily through execution of
one-to-one adult consumer programs.



Cigarettes



PM USA is the largest tobacco company in the United States, with total
cigarette shipments in the United States of 140.8 billion units in 2010, a decrease of 5.3% from 2009.



PM USA ceased production at its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and completed the consolidation of its cigarette manufacturing
capacity into its Richmond, Virginia facility on July 29, 2009. PM USA took this action to address ongoing cigarette volume declines, including the impact of the federal excise tax (“FET”) increase enacted in early 2009. During 2010,
PM USA substantially completed the de-commissioning of the Cabarrus facility and expects to fully complete the de-commissioning in early 2011.



Effective in the first quarter of 2010, PM USA revised its cigarettes segment reporting of volume and retail share results to reflect how management
evaluates segment performance. PM USA is reporting volume and retail share performance as follows:Marlboro; Other Premium brands, such asVirginia Slims,ParliamentandBenson & Hedges; and Discount brands,
which includeBasicandL&M, and other discount brands. All of its brands are marketed to take into account differing preferences of adult smokers.



The following table summarizes cigarettes segment volume performance,
which includes units sold, as well as promotional units, but excludes Puerto Rico, U.S. Territories, Overseas Military, Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and 2008 contract manufacturing for PMI (terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008), none of which,
individually or in the aggregate, is material to the cigarettes segment:



Shipment
VolumeFor the Years EndedDecember 31,201020092008(in billion units)Marlboro121.9126.5141.5Other Premium10.311.815.3Discount8.610.412.6Total Cigarettes140.8148.7169.4



PM USA’s 2010 total premium brands (Marlboroand Other Premium brands) shipment volume decreased 4.4% from 2009. In the Discount brands, PM USA’s shipment volume decreased 16.8%.Marlborois
the largest-selling cigarette brand in the United States, with shipments of 121.9 billion units in 2010 (down 3.7% from 2009). Shipments of premium cigarettes accounted for 93.9% of PM USA’s total 2010 volume, up from 93.0% in 2009.



-4-




The following table summarizes cigarettes segment retail share performance based on data from
SymphonyIRI Group/Capstone, which is a retail tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share performance in retail stores selling cigarettes. The panel was not designed to capture sales through other channels, including the
Internet and direct mail.



Retail
ShareFor the Years EndedDecember 31,201020092008Marlboro42.6%41.8%41.9%Other Premium3.94.45.0Discount3.33.74.0Total Cigarettes49.8%49.9%50.9%



Smokeless products



USSTC is the leading producer and marketer of smokeless tobacco products, including the premium brands,CopenhagenandSkoal, and the
value brands,Red SealandHusky. In addition, the smokeless products segment includesMarlboroSnus, a PM USA spit-less smokeless tobacco product.



The following table summarizes smokeless products segment volume
performance (full year results):



Shipment VolumeFor the Years EndedDecember 31,201020092008(cans and packs inmillions)Copenhagen327.5280.6276.9Skoal274.4265.4271.8CopenhagenandSkoal601.9546.0548.7Red Seal/Other122.599.6112.7Total Smokeless products724.4645.6661.4



Volume includes cans and packs sold, as well as promotional units, but excludes international volume, which is not material to the smokeless products segment. Additionally, 2009 volume includes 10.9 million
cans of domestic volume shipped by USSTC prior to the UST acquisition. Other includes USSTC and PM USA smokeless products. Volume from 2008 represents only domestic volume shipped by USSTC prior to the UST acquisition.



New types of smokeless products, as well as new packaging
configurations of existing smokeless products, may or may not be equivalent to existing MST products on a can for can basis. USSTC and PM USA have assumed the following equivalent ratios to calculate volumes of cans and packs shipped:



•One pack of snus, irrespective of the number of pouches in the pack, is equivalent to one can of MST;



•One can ofSkoalSlim Can pouches is equivalent to a 0.53 can of MST; and



•All other products are considered to be equivalent on a can for can basis.



-5-




If assumptions regarding these equivalent ratios change, it may result in a change to these reported
results.



USSTC and PM USA’s combined domestic
smokeless products shipment volume for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 12.2% versus 2009. The smokeless products segment domestic shipment volume for the period from January 6 through December 31, 2009 was
634.7 million units. Including the volume of 10.9 million cans shipped from January 1 through January 5, 2009, the period prior to Altria Group, Inc.’s acquisition of UST, total volume for the full year ended
December 31, 2009 was 645.6 million units.



The
following table summarizes smokeless products segment retail share performance (full year results, excluding international volume):



Retail ShareFor the Years EndedDecember 31,20102009Copenhagen25.6%23.6%Skoal22.423.6CopenhagenandSkoal48.047.2Red Seal/Other7.37.4Total Smokeless products55.3%54.6%



Smokeless products retail share performance is based on data from SymphonyIRI Group (“Symphony IRI”) InfoScan Smokeless Tobacco Database for Food, Drug, Mass Merchandisers (excluding Wal-Mart) and
Convenience trade classes, which tracks smokeless products market share performance based on the number of cans and packs sold. Smokeless products is defined as MST and spit-less tobacco products. Other includes USSTC and PM USA smokeless tobacco
products other thanCopenhagenandSkoal. It is SymphonyIRI’s standard practice to periodically refresh its InfoScan syndicated services, which could restate retail share results that were previously released.



New types of smokeless products, as well as new packaging
configurations of existing smokeless products, may or may not be equivalent to existing MST products on a can for can basis. USSTC and PM USA have made the following assumptions for calculating retail share:



•One pack of snus, irrespective of the number of pouches in the pack, is equivalent to one can of MST; and



•All other products are considered to be equivalent on a can for can basis.



If assumptions regarding these equivalent ratios change, it may result
in a change to these reported results.



-6-




Cigars



The following table summarizes cigars segment volume performance:



Shipment VolumeFor the Years EndedDecember 31,201020092008(units in millions)Black & Mild1,2221,2281,266Other243141Total Cigars1,2461,2591,307



In 2010, Middleton’s cigar shipment volume decreased 1.0% versus 2009 to 1,246 million units.



The following table summarizes cigars segment retail share performance:



Retail ShareFor the Years EndedDecember 31,201020092008Black & Mild28.5%29.8%28.8%Other0.40.60.7Total Cigars28.9%30.4%29.5



Cigars segment retail share results are based on data from SymphonyIRI InfoScan Cigar Database for Food, Drug, Mass Merchandisers (excluding Wal-Mart) and Convenience trade classes, which tracks machine-made large
cigars market share performance. Middleton defines machine-made large cigars as cigars made by machine that weigh greater than three pounds per thousand, except cigars sold at retail in packages of 20 cigars. This service was developed to provide a
representation of retail business performance in key trade channels. It is SymphonyIRI’s standard practice to periodically refresh its InfoScan syndicated services, which could restate retail share results that were previously released.



Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials



Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries sell their tobacco
products principally to wholesalers (including distributors), large retail organizations, including chain stores, and the armed services.



The market for tobacco products is highly competitive, characterized by brand recognition and loyalty, with product quality, taste, price, product
innovation, marketing, packaging and distribution constituting the significant methods of competition. Promotional activities include, in certain instances and where permitted by law, allowances, the distribution of incentive items, price promotions
and other discounts, including coupons, product promotions and allowances for new products. The tobacco products of Altria Group, Inc.’s subsidiaries are promoted through various means, although television and radio advertising of certain
tobacco products is prohibited in the United States. In addition, the FSPTCA imposes significant new restrictions on the sale, advertising and promotion of tobacco products and, as discussed below in Item 3.Legal Proceedings (“Item
3”),and Note 21.Contingenciesto Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual Report (“Note 21”).PM USA, USSTC and other U.S. tobacco
manufacturers have agreed to other marketing restrictions in the United States as part of the settlements of state health care cost recovery actions.



-7-




In the United States, under a contract growing program, PM USA purchases burley and flue-cured leaf
tobaccos of various grades and styles directly from tobacco growers. Under the terms of this program, PM USA agrees to purchase the amount of tobacco specified in the grower contracts. PM USA also purchases its United States tobacco requirements
through leaf merchants. In 2003, PM USA and certain other defendants reached an agreement with plaintiffs to settle a suit filed on behalf of a purported class of tobacco growers and quota-holders. The agreement includes a commitment by each
settling manufacturer defendant, including PM USA, to purchase a certain percentage of its leaf requirements from U.S. tobacco growers over a period of at least ten years. These quantities are subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms
of the settlement agreement.



Tobacco production in the
United States was historically subject to government controls, including the production control programs administered by the United States Department of Agriculture (the “USDA”). In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act
of 2004 (“FETRA”) was signed into law. PM USA, USSTC, and Middleton are all subject to obligations imposed by FETRA. FETRA eliminated the federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers
and quota holders. The cost of the buy-out is approximately $9.5 billion and is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of
manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The quota buy-out payments had offset PM USA’s obligations to make payments to the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust (the “NTGST”), a trust fund established in 1999
by the major domestic tobacco product manufacturers to provide aid to tobacco growers and quota holders. PM USA’s payment obligations under the NTGST expired on December 15, 2010.



On February 8, 2011, PM USA filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging the USDA’s method for calculating the
2011 and future tobacco class share allocations for the Tobacco Transition Payment Program under FETRA. PM USA believes that the USDA violated FETRA and its own regulations by failing to apply the most recent FET rates enacted by Congress in April
2009 to the USDA’s calculations.



The quota buy-out did
not have a material impact on Altria Group, Inc.’s 2010 consolidated results and Altria Group, Inc. does not currently anticipate that the quota buy-out will have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results in 2011 and beyond.



USSTC purchases burley, dark fire-cured and air-cured
tobaccos of various grades and styles from domestic tobacco growers under a contract growing program as well as from leaf merchants.



Middleton purchases burley, dark air-cured tobaccos of various grades and styles through leaf merchants. Middleton does not have a contract growing
program.



Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries
believe there is an adequate supply of tobacco in the world markets to satisfy their current and anticipated production requirements.



Wine



Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST and its premium wine business, Ste. Michelle, in January 2009. Ste. Michelle is a producer of premium varietal and
blended table wines. Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarilyChateau Ste. MichelleandColumbia Crest,and owns wineries in or distributes wines from several other wine regions.Ste. Michelle
holds an 85% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori, LLC, which ownsStag’s Leap Wine Cellarsin Napa Valley. Ste. Michelle also ownsConn Creekin Napa Valley andErathin Oregon. In addition, Ste. Michelle distributesAntinoriandVilla Maria Estatewines andChampagne Nicolas Feuillattein the United States.



-8-




The following table summarizes wine segment case shipment volume performance:



Shipment VolumeFor the Years EndedDecember 31,201020092008(cases in thousands)Chateau Ste. Michelle2,3382,0341,931Columbia Crest2,0541,9682,137Other2,2892,0032,066Total Wine6,6816,0056,134



Ste. Michelle’s wine shipment volume of 6.7 million cases for 2010 increased 11.3% versus 2009.



During 2010, Ste. Michelle’s retail unit volume, as measured by The Nielsen Company (“Nielsen”) and its Nielsen Total Wine Database
– U.S. Food, Drug, & Liquor, increased 5.6% versus 2009. Ste. Michelle’s retail unit volume percentage change is based on data from Nielsen, which tracks retail metrics in the wine space. It is Nielsen’s standard practice to
refresh its syndicated databases periodically, which could restate retail metrics that were previously released. Ste. Michelle’s retail unit volume includesVilla Maria Estatein 2010 and excludes it in 2009. Ste. Michelle gained
distribution rights toVilla Maria Estatein 2010.



Distribution,
Competition and Raw Materials



A key element of Ste.
Michelle’s strategy is expanded domestic distribution of its wines, especially in certain account categories such as restaurants, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, wine shops and mass merchandisers.



Ste. Michelle’s business is subject to significant competition,
including competition from many larger, well-established domestic and international companies, as well as from many smaller wine producers. Wine segment competition is primarily based on quality, price, consumer and trade wine tastings, competitive
wine judging, third-party acclaim and advertising. Substantially all of Ste. Michelle’s sales occur through state-licensed distributors.



Federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements,
pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies. Further regulatory restrictions or additional excise or other taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages may have an adverse effect on Ste.
Michelle’s wine business.



Ste. Michelle uses grapes
harvested from its own vineyards or purchased from independent growers, as well as bulk wine purchased from other sources. Grape production can be adversely affected by weather and other forces that may limit production. At the present time, Ste.
Michelle believes that there is a sufficient supply of grapes and bulk wine available in the market to satisfy its current and expected production requirements.



Financial Services



In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began focusing exclusively on managing its existing portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize
gains and generate cash flow from asset sales and related activities. Accordingly, PMCC’s operating companies income will fluctuate over time as investments mature or are sold. At December 31, 2010, PMCC’s net finance receivables of



-9-




approximately $4.4 billion in leveraged leases, which are included in finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated balance sheet, consisted of rents receivable ($13.0 billion)
and the residual value of assets under lease ($1.3 billion), reduced by third-party nonrecourse debt ($8.3 billion) and unearned income ($1.6 billion). The repayment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease payments receivable and the
leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC. As required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the third-party nonrecourse debt has been offset against the related rents receivable and has
been presented on a net basis within finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated balance sheets. Finance assets, net, at December 31, 2010, also included net finance receivables for direct finance leases ($0.3 billion) and an
allowance for losses ($0.2 billion).



At December 31,
2010, PMCC’s investments in finance leases were principally comprised of the following investment categories: rail and surface transport (30%), aircraft (25%), electric power (24%), real estate (12%) and manufacturing (9%).



See Note 21 for a discussion of the IRS disallowance of certain tax
benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions.



Business Environment



Portions of the information called for by this Item are hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs captioned “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Operating Results by Business Segment – Tobacco Space—Business Environment” on pages 91 to 97 of the 2010 Annual Report;
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Operating Results by Business Segment – Wine Segment—Business Environment” on page 102 of such report; and “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Operating Results by Business Segment – Financial Services Segment—Business Environment” on page 103 of such report and made a part hereof.



Other Matters



Customers



The largest customer of PM USA, USSTC and Middleton, McLane Company,
Inc., accounted for approximately 27%, 26%, and 27% of Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These net revenues were reported in the cigarettes, smokeless
products and cigars segments.



Sales to three distributors
accounted for approximately 65% and 64% of net revenues for the wine segment for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Employees



At December 31, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries employed approximately 10,000 people.



Executive Officers of Altria Group, Inc.



The disclosure regarding executive officers is set forth under the
heading “Executive Officers as of February 24, 2011” in Item 10 of this Form 10-K and is incorporated by reference herein.



-10-




Research and Development



The research and development expense for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 are set forth in Note 19.Additional Informationto Altria Group, Inc.’s financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2010 Annual Report.



Intellectual Property



Trademarks are of material importance to Altria Group, Inc. and its operating companies, and are protected by
registration or otherwise. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, the portfolio of over 500 United States patents owned by Altria Group, Inc.’s businesses, as a whole, was material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco businesses. However,
no one patent or group of related patents was material to Altria Group, Inc.’s business or its tobacco businesses as of December 31, 2010. We also have proprietary secrets, technology, know-how, processes and other intellectual property
rights that are protected by appropriate confidentiality measures. Certain trade secrets are material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco and wine businesses.



Environmental Regulation



Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

,



(d) Financial Information About
Geographic Areas



Substantially all of Altria
Group, Inc.’s net revenues from continuing operations are from sales generated in the United States for each of the last three fiscal years. As is described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations,” set forth in the 2010 Annual Report, subsequent to the PMI spin-off, PM USA recorded net revenues of $298 million from contract volume manufactured for PMI under an agreement that terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008.
Subsequent to the PMI spin-off, substantially all of Altria Group, Inc.’s long-lived assets are located in the United States.



(e) Available Information



Altria Group, Inc. is required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Investors may
read and copy any document that Altria Group, Inc. files,



-11-




including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the
Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access Altria Group, Inc.’s SEC filings.



Altria Group, Inc. makes available free of charge on or through its website (www.altria.com), its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports
on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after Altria Group,
Inc. electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Investors can access Altria Group, Inc.’s filings with the SEC by visiting www.altria.com/secfilings.



The information on the respective websites of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries is not, and shall not be deemed to
be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings Altria Group, Inc. makes with the SEC.



