Item 1.Business.



(a) General Development of Business



General:Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1985. At December 31, 2011, Altria
Group, Inc.’s wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. (“PM USA”), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and certain smokeless products in the United States; UST LLC (“UST”), which
through its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries including U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC (“USSTC”) and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. (“Ste. Michelle”), is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless products
and wine; and John Middleton Co. (“Middleton”), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco. Philip Morris Capital Corporation (“PMCC”), another wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria
Group, Inc., maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. held a 27.0% economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc (“SABMiller”) at December 31, 2011, which is accounted for under the
equity method of accounting.



As discussed in Note 3.UST
Acquisitionto Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2011 Annual Report, on January 6, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding common stock of UST. As
a result of the acquisition, UST became an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc.



On March 28, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its interest in Philip Morris International Inc. (“PMI”) to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. On March 30,
2007, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft Foods Inc. (“Kraft”) on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. Following the respective distributions of PMI and Kraft,
Altria Group, Inc. does not own any shares of PMI and Kraft stock. Altria Group, Inc. has reflected the results of PMI and Kraft prior to the respective distributions as discontinued operations. The PMI and Kraft spin-offs resulted in a net decrease
to Altria Group, Inc.’s total stockholders’ equity of $14.7 billion and $30.5 billion, respectively, on the respective distribution dates. Following the Kraft spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both Altria
Group, Inc. and Kraft shares would receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria Group, Inc. prior to the Kraft spin-off. Similarly, following the PMI spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its dividend so that holders of both
Altria Group, Inc. and PMI shares would receive initially, in the aggregate, the same dividends paid by Altria Group, Inc. prior to the PMI spin-off.



On December 11, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding stock of Middleton for $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition was
financed with available cash.



Source of Funds:Because Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company, its principal sources of funds consist of cash received from its wholly-owned subsidiaries from the payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans. At
December 31, 2011, Altria Group, Inc.’s principal wholly-owned subsidiaries were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their common stock. In
addition, Altria Group, Inc. receives cash dividends on its interest in SABMiller, if and when SABMiller pays such dividends.



(b) Financial Information About Segments



At December 31, 2011, Altria Group, Inc.’s reportable segments were: cigarettes, smokeless products, cigars, wine and financial services.
Net revenues and operating companies income (together with reconciliation to earnings before income taxes) attributable to each such segment for each of the last three years are set forth in Note 16.Segment Reportingto Altria Group,
Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2011 Annual Report.







Altria Group, Inc.’s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income to
evaluate the performance of and allocate resources to the segments. Operating companies income for the segments excludes general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles. Interest and other debt expense, net (consumer products), and
provision for income taxes are centrally managed at the corporate level and, accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by Altria Group, Inc.’s chief operating
decision maker. Information about total assets by segment is not disclosed because such information is not reported to or used by Altria Group, Inc.’s chief operating decision maker. Segment goodwill and other intangible assets, net, are
disclosed in Note 4.Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, netto Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2011 Annual Report.The accounting policies of the segments
are the same as those described in Note 2.Summary of Significant Accounting Policiesto Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2011 Annual Report (“Note
2”).



The relative percentages of operating
companies income attributable to each reportable segment were as follows:



201120102009Cigarettes87.9%82.1%85.3%Smokeless products13.612.16.4Cigars2.62.53.0Wine1.40.90.7Financial services(5.5)2.44.6100.0%100.0%100.0%



Changes in the relative percentages
above reflect the following:



•Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs: For a discussion of asset impairment, exit, implementation and integration costs and a
breakdown of these costs by segment, see Note 5. Asset Impairment, Exit, Implementation and Integration Costs to Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2011 Annual Report
(“Note 5”).



•PMCC Leveraged Lease Charge:During 2011, Altria Group, Inc. recorded a one-time charge of $627 million related to the tax treatment of certain leveraged
lease transactions entered into by PMCC (“PMCC Leveraged Lease Charge”). Included in this charge was a pre-tax charge of $490 million that was recorded as a decrease to PMCC’s net revenues and operating companies income (see Note 8.Finance Assets, netto Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2011 Annual Report (“Note 8”); Note 15.Income Taxesto Altria Group, Inc.’s
consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2011 Annual Report (“Note 15”); Note 19.Contingenciesto Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein
by reference to the 2011 Annual Report (“Note 19”) and Item 3.Legal Proceedings(“Item 3”) for further discussion of matters related to this charge).



•Tobacco and Health Judgments:During 2011, Altria Group, Inc. recorded pre-tax charges of $98 million excluding accrued interest, related to
tobacco and health judgments in theWilliams,BullockandScottcases. These charges are reflected in the cigarettes segment and are discussed further in Item 3 and Note 19.



Beginning January 1, 2012, the chief operating decision maker is
evaluating the combination of the former cigars and cigarettes segments as a single smokeable products segment, which is related to a cost reduction program announced in October 2011 (the “2011 Cost Reduction Program”).







Effective with the first quarter of 2012, Altria Group, Inc.’s reportable segments will be smokeable products, smokeless products, wine and financial services. In addition, in connection
with the 2011 Cost Reduction Program, effective January 1, 2012, Middleton became a wholly-owned subsidiary of PM USA. For further discussion on the 2011 Cost Reduction Program, see Note 5.



(c) Narrative Description of Business



Portions of the information called for by this Item are hereby
incorporated by reference to the paragraphs captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Operating Results by Business Segment” on pages 79 to 92 of the 2011 Annual Report and
made a part hereof.



Tobacco Space



Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco operating companies include PM USA,
USSTC and other subsidiaries of UST, and Middleton. In addition, Altria Group Distribution Company provides centralized sales, distribution and consumer engagement services for Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco operating companies.



Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco operating companies believe that a
significant number of adult tobacco consumers switch between tobacco categories or use multiple forms of tobacco products and that approximately 30% of adult smokers are interested in spit-free smokeless alternatives to cigarettes.



Cigarettes:PM USA is the largest cigarette company in the
United States, with total cigarette shipment volume in the United States of approximately 135.1 billion units in 2011, a decrease of approximately 4.0% from 2010.Marlboro, the principal cigarette brand of this company, has been the
largest-selling cigarette brand in the United States for over 30 years.



Smokeless products:USSTC is the leading producer and marketer of moist smokeless tobacco products. The smokeless products segment includes the premium brands,CopenhagenandSkoal, value
brands,Red SealandHuskyandMarlboroSnus, a PM USA spit-less smokeless tobacco product. Substantially all of the smokeless products are manufactured and sold to customers in the United States. Total smokeless products
shipment volume was 734.6 million units in 2011, an increase of 1.4% from 2010.



Cigars:Middleton is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco to customers, substantially all of which are located in the United States. Total shipment volume for the
cigars segment was 1,246 million units in 2011, which was unchanged from 2010.Black & Mildis the principal cigar brand of Middleton. In 2011, Middleton entered into a contract manufacturing arrangement to source the production
of a portion of its cigars overseas. Middleton entered into this arrangement to access additional production capacity in an uncertain competitive environment and a tax environment that potentially benefits imported large cigars over those
manufactured domestically.



Distribution, Competition and
Raw Materials:Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries sell their tobacco products principally to wholesalers (including distributors), large retail organizations, including chain stores, and the armed services.



The market for tobacco products is highly competitive, characterized by
brand recognition and loyalty, with product quality, taste, price, product innovation, marketing, packaging and distribution constituting the significant methods of competition. Promotional activities include, in certain instances and where
permitted by law, allowances, the distribution of incentive items, price promotions and other discounts, including coupons, product promotions and allowances for new products.







In June 2009, the President signed into law the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act
(“FSPTCA”), which provides the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) with broad authority to regulate the design, manufacture, packaging, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of cigarettes, cigarette tobacco
and smokeless tobacco products; the authority to require disclosures of related information; and the authority to enforce the FSPTCA and related regulations. The law also grants the FDA authority to extend its application, by regulation, to other
tobacco products, including cigars. The FSPTCA imposes significant new restrictions on the sale, advertising and promotion of tobacco products. PM USA and a subsidiary of USSTC are subject to quarterly user fees as a result of this legislation, and
the cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. PM USA, USSTC and other U.S. tobacco manufacturers have agreed to other marketing restrictions in the United States as
part of the settlements of state health care cost recovery actions.



In the United States, under a contract growing program, PM USA purchases burley and flue-cured leaf tobaccos of various grades and styles directly from tobacco growers. Under the terms of this program, PM USA
agrees to purchase the amount of tobacco specified in the grower contracts. PM USA also purchases a portion of its United States tobacco requirements through leaf merchants. In 2003, PM USA and certain other defendants reached an agreement with
plaintiffs to settle a suit filed on behalf of a purported class of tobacco growers and quota-holders. The agreement includes a commitment by each settling manufacturer defendant, including PM USA, to purchase a certain percentage of its leaf
requirements from U.S. tobacco growers over a period of at least ten years. These quantities are subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms of the settlement agreement.



Tobacco production in the United States was historically subject to government controls, including the production control
programs administered by the United States Department of Agriculture (the “USDA”). In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 (“FETRA”) was signed into law. PM USA, USSTC, and Middleton are all subject to
obligations imposed by FETRA. FETRA eliminated the federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota holders. The cost of the buy-out is approximately $9.5 billion and is being paid
over 10 years by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The quota buy-out payments had offset
PM USA’s obligations to make payments to the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust (the “NTGST”), a trust fund established in 1999 by the major domestic tobacco product manufacturers to provide aid to tobacco growers and quota
holders. PM USA’s payment obligations under the NTGST expired on December 15, 2010.



In February 2011, PM USA filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging the USDA’s method for calculating the 2011 and future tobacco product class shares that are used to allocate liability for the industry
payments that fund the FETRA buy-out described above and used by the FDA to calculate the industry’s FDA user fees. PM USA asserts in this litigation that the USDA violated FETRA and its own regulations by failing to apply the most current
federal excise tax (“FET”) rates enacted by Congress which became effective in April 2009, in calculating the class share allocations. PM USA has filed administrative appeals of its FETRA assessments for fiscal year 2011 (all of which have
been or are expected to be denied by the USDA) and has submitted a petition for rulemaking with USDA (which petition was denied by the USDA on November 16, 2011), in each case asserting that USDA erroneously failed to base the FETRA class share
allocations on the current FET rates. PM USA is appealing the USDA’s calculations methodology as well as the denial of the petition for rulemaking and the denial of its quarterly assessment challenges.



The quota buy-out did not have a material impact on Altria Group,
Inc.’s 2011 consolidated results, and Altria Group, Inc. does not currently anticipate that the quota buy-out will have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results in 2012 and beyond.







USSTC purchases burley, dark fire-cured and air-cured tobaccos of various grades and styles from
domestic tobacco growers under a contract growing program as well as from leaf merchants.



Middleton purchases burley and dark air-cured tobaccos of various grades and styles through leaf merchants. Middleton does not have a contract growing program.



Altria Group, Inc.’s tobacco subsidiaries believe there is an
adequate supply of tobacco in the world markets to satisfy their current and anticipated production requirements.



Wine



Altria Group, Inc. acquired UST and its premium wine business, Ste. Michelle, in January 2009. Ste. Michelle is a producer of premium varietal and
blended table wines. Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarilyChateau Ste. MichelleandColumbia Crest, and owns wineries in or distributes wines from several other wine regions and foreign countries.
Ste. Michelle’s total 2011 wine shipment volume of 7.3 million cases increased 9.6% from 2010.



Ste. Michelle holds an 85% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori, LLC, which owns Stag’s Leap Wine Cellars in Napa Valley. Ste. Michelle also
ownsConn Creekin Napa Valley andErathin Oregon. In addition, Ste. Michelle distributesAntinoriandVilla Maria Estatewines andChampagne Nicolas Feuillattein the United States.



Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials:A key element of
Ste. Michelle’s strategy is expanded domestic distribution of its wines, especially in certain account categories such as restaurants, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, wine shops and mass merchandisers and a focus on improving product mix to
higher-priced premium products.



Ste. Michelle’s
business is subject to significant competition, including competition from many larger, well-established domestic and international companies, as well as from many smaller wine producers. Wine segment competition is primarily based on quality,
price, consumer and trade wine tastings, competitive wine judging, third-party acclaim and advertising. Substantially all of Ste. Michelle’s sales occur through state-licensed distributors.



Federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol
beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies. Further regulatory restrictions or additional excise or other taxes on the
manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages may have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle’s wine business.



Ste. Michelle uses grapes harvested from its own vineyards or purchased from independent growers, as well as bulk wine purchased from other sources.
Grape production can be adversely affected by weather and other forces that may limit production. At the present time, Ste. Michelle believes that there is a sufficient supply of grapes and bulk wine available in the market to satisfy its current
and expected production requirements.



Financial Services



In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began
focusing exclusively on managing its existing portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize gains and generate cash flow from asset sales and related activities. Accordingly, PMCC’s operating companies income will fluctuate over time as
investments mature or are sold. At December 31, 2011, PMCC’s net finance receivables of approximately $3.5 billion in leveraged leases, which are included in finance assets, net, on Altria







Group, Inc.’s consolidated balance sheet, consisted of rents receivable ($10.7 billion) and the residual value of assets under lease ($1.3 billion), reduced by third-party nonrecourse debt
($6.8 billion) and unearned income ($1.7 billion). The repayment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease payments receivable and the leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC. As required by accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America, the third-party nonrecourse debt has been offset against the related rents receivable and has been presented on a net basis within finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated
balance sheets. Finance assets, net, at December 31, 2011, also included net finance receivables for direct finance leases ($0.2 billion) and an allowance for losses ($0.2 billion).



At December 31, 2011, PMCC’s investments in finance leases were principally comprised of the following
investment categories: aircraft (30%), rail and surface transport (26%), electric power (25%), real estate (10%) and manufacturing (9%).



See Note 8, Note 15, Note 19 and Item 3 for a discussion of the Internal Revenue Service’s (“IRS”) disallowance of certain tax
benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions.



Other Matters



Customers:The largest customer of PM USA, USSTC and Middleton, McLane Company, Inc., accounted for approximately 27%, 27% and 26% of Altria
Group, Inc.’s consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These net revenues were reported in the cigarettes, smokeless products and cigars segments.



Sales to three distributors accounted for approximately 66%, 65% and
64% of net revenues for the wine segment for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Employees:At December 31, 2011, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries employed approximately 9,900 people. As a result of the 2011
Cost Reduction Program, there will be a reduction of approximately 700 employees by February 29, 2012.



Executive Officers of Altria Group, Inc.:The disclosure regarding executive officers is set forth in Item 10 of this Form 10-K under
the heading “Executive Officers as of February 16, 2012.”



Research and Development:The research and development expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are set forth in Note 18.Additional Informationto Altria Group, Inc.’s
consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2011 Annual Report.



Intellectual Property:Trademarks are of material importance to Altria Group, Inc. and its operating companies, and are protected by
registration or otherwise. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, the portfolio of over 500 United States patents owned by Altria Group, Inc.’s businesses, as a whole, was material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco businesses. However,
no one patent or group of related patents was material to Altria Group, Inc.’s business or its tobacco businesses as of December 31, 2011. Altria Group, Inc.’s businesses also have proprietary secrets, technology, know-how, processes
and other intellectual property rights that are protected by appropriate confidentiality measures. Certain trade secrets are material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco and wine businesses.



Environmental Regulation:Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) are subject to various
federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including, in the United States: The Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act and the







Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as “Superfund”), which can impose joint and several liability on each responsible party.
Subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) of Altria Group, Inc. are involved in several matters subjecting them to potential costs of remediation and natural resource damages under Superfund or other laws and regulations. Altria Group, Inc.’s
subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with environmental laws and regulations. As discussed in Note 2, Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on
an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change. Other than those amounts, it is not possible to reasonably estimate the cost of any
environmental remediation and compliance efforts that subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. may undertake in the future. In the opinion of management, however, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation
costs or damages and the making of related expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc.’s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position or cash flows.



(d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas



Substantially all of Altria Group, Inc.’s net revenues are from
sales generated in the United States for each of the last three fiscal years and substantially all of Altria Group, Inc.’s long-lived assets are located in the United States.



(e) Available Information



Altria Group, Inc. is required to file annual, quarterly and current
reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Investors may read and copy any document that Altria Group, Inc. files, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, D.C. 20549. Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access Altria Group, Inc.’s SEC filings.



Altria Group, Inc. makes available free of charge on or through its website (www.altria.com) its Annual Report on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as
reasonably practicable after Altria Group, Inc. electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Investors can access Altria Group, Inc.’s filings with the SEC by visiting www.altria.com/secfilings.



The information on the respective websites of Altria Group, Inc. and
its subsidiaries is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings Altria Group, Inc. makes with the SEC.



