ITEM 1.  BUSINESS



CORPORATE OVERVIEW



Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company") is a global specialty chemical company that produces a broad range of advanced materials, chemicals, and fibers that are found in products people use every day.  Eastman began business in 1920 for the purpose of producing chemicals for Eastman Kodak Company's photographic business and became a public company, incorporated in Delaware, on December 31, 1993.  Eastman has 45 manufacturing sites in 16 countries and equity interests in joint ventures that supply chemicals, plastics, and fibers products to customers throughout the world.  The Company's headquarters and largest manufacturing site are located in Kingsport, Tennessee.



Eastman has a strong portfolio of specialty businesses that hold leading positions and manufacture products that enhance performance in a variety of end markets such as transportation, building and construction, and consumables.  Eastman management believes that the Company's end-market diversity is a source of strength, as these markets are benefiting from longer-term global trends such as energy efficiency, a rising middle class in emerging economies, and increased focus on health and wellness.  End uses for the Company's products include both original equipment manufacturing ("OEM") and replacement or after-market products.  These trends, combined with the diversity of the Company's end markets, facilitate more consistent demand for the Company's products over time.  Eastman is focused on consistent earnings growth through a market-driven approach that takes advantage of the Company's existing technology platforms, global market and manufacturing presence, and leading positions in end markets.



On July 2, 2012, the Company completed its acquisition of Solutia Inc. ("Solutia"), a global leader in performance materials and specialty chemicals.  In order to provide the most meaningful comparison of results, some of the corporate and segment information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Annual Report") includes results on a "pro forma combined" basis, giving effect to the acquisition of Solutia as if it had been completed at the beginning of the earliest period presented.  For additional information on the assumptions and related matters considered in connection with the presentation of information on a pro forma combined basis, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Non-GAAP and Pro Forma Combined Financial Measures" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report.



In 2013, the Company reported sales revenue of$9.4 billion, operating earnings of$1.9 billion, and earnings from continuing operations of$1.2 billion.  Earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were$7.44.  Asset impairments and restructuring charges and Solutia acquisition-related costs included in operating earnings were$76 millionand$36 million, respectively.  Additionally, operating earnings included mark-to-market ("MTM") pension and other postretirement benefits plans actuarial net gains of$383 million.





Business Strategy



Eastman's objective is to be an outperforming specialty chemical company with consistent earnings growth.  The Company sells differentiated products into diverse markets and geographic regions.  Eastman works with customers to meet their needs in existing and new markets through development of innovative products and technologies.  Management believes that the Company can increase the revenues from its businesses while improving profitability through a balance of new applications for existing products, development of new products, sales growth in adjacent markets and emerging economies, and leveraging assets to improve cost position.  These revenue and earnings increases are expected to result from both inorganic (external growth through joint ventures and acquisitions) initiatives and organic (internal) growth initiatives.



In 2013, the Company progressed on both inorganic and organic growth initiatives, including:



•substantially completing the integration of Solutia, which was acquired on July 2, 2012 and which:

◦broadened Eastman's global presence;

◦established a combined platform with extensive organic growth opportunities through complementary technologies and business capabilities, and an overlap of key end markets; and

◦expanded Eastman's portfolio of sustainable products and products with leading market positions;

•in the Additives & Functional Products segment, completing an expansion of ethylene oxide derivative capacity in Longview, Texas in second quarter 2013 to meet demand in the coatings markets;

•in the Advanced Materials segment, beginning the expansion of Eastman TritanTMcopolyester capacity at the Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing facility which is expected to be operational in the second half of 2014 to meet demand for Eastman TritanTMcopolyester;










•in the Fibers segment, completing a new 30,000 metric ton acetate tow manufacturing facility in Hefei, China during third quarter 2013 in a joint venture with China National Tobacco Corporation to meet customer growth; and

•in the Specialty Fluids & Intermediates segment:

◦debottlenecking its largest olefins cracking unit in Longview, Texas, in first quarter 2013, primarily to produce additional ethylene to improve Eastman's olefin cost position; and

◦beginning a Therminol®heat transfer fluid capacity expansion in Newport, Wales, which is expected to be operational in the second half of 2014 to support expected demand in the industrial chemicals and processing market.



In addition, in January 2014 the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the assets of BP plc's global aviation turbine engine oil business.  The acquisition is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2014, and the acquired business will become a part of the Specialty Fluids & Intermediates segment.



The Company benefits from proprietary technologies and advantaged feedstocks, and is focusing on sustainability as a competitive strength for growth.  Eastman has developed new products and technologies that enable customers' development and sales of sustainable products.



Management expects continued earnings growth, despite persistent economic uncertainty, as a result of the strength and diversity of the Company's businesses and balance sheet.  The Company continues to evaluate inorganic growth opportunities, through joint ventures and acquisitions, intended to enhance the Company's product portfolio and extension into emerging markets.





Financial Strategy



In addition to managing its businesses and growth initiatives, the Company remains committed to maintaining a strong financial position with sufficient financial flexibility and liquidity.  Eastman management believes maintaining a financial profile that supports an investment grade rating is important to its long term strategic and financial flexibility.  The Company employs what management believes is a balanced approach to capital allocation and deployment of cash.  The Company pursues a variety of organic growth opportunities and also considers inorganic growth opportunities, including joint ventures and acquisitions.  The Company also returns cash to stockholders through dividends and, from time to time, share repurchases.  The Company manages its debt based upon its capital structure objectives, funding requirements, and public and private debt market conditions.  Management expects that the strength and diversity of the Company's businesses and balance sheet will provide continued strong cash flow and financial flexibility.





BUSINESS SEGMENTS



The Company's products and operations are managed and reported in five reporting segments: Additives & Functional Products ("AFP"), Adhesives & Plasticizers ("A&P"), Advanced Materials ("AM"), Fibers, and Specialty Fluids & Intermediates ("SFI").  This organizational structure is based on the management of the strategies, operating models, and sales channels that the various businesses employ.  Sales revenue and research and development ("R&D") costs, certain components of pension and other postretirement benefits gains, losses, and costs, and other expenses and income not identifiable to an operating segment are not included in segment operating results for any of the periods presented and are shown as "other" sales revenue and "other" operating earnings (loss).  For identification of manufacturing sites see Item 2 "Properties" in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.  For additional information concerning the Company's operating segments, see Note21, "Segment Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.





ADDITIVES & FUNCTIONAL PRODUCTS SEGMENT



•Overview



In the AFP segment, the Company manufactures chemicals for products in the coatings and tires industries in transportation, building and construction, durable goods, and consumables markets.  In 2013, the AFP segment had sales revenue of$1.7 billion,18 percentof Eastman's total sales.  Key technology platforms in this segment are rubber additives, cellulosic polymers, specialty ketones and coalescents, polyester polymers, and hydrocarbon resins.












AFP sales growth in the United States, Canada, and Europe typically approximates general economic growth due to the wide variety of end uses such as tires, paints, and consumables.  Recently, the Company’s sales growth in Asia and Eastern Europe has been higher than average global economic growth because of higher growth in gross domestic product ("GDP") and per capita income in these emerging economies.  The segment focuses on producing high-value additives rather than finished formulated products.  The segment principally competes on the unique performance characteristics of its products and through leveraging its strong customer base and long-standing customer relationships to promote substantial recurring business and product development.  Some competitors may commit greater financial and other resources than Eastman to products in markets in which the AFP segment competes.  Additionally, within each segment product market, the Company may compete with other smaller, regionally focused companies that may have advantages based upon location, local market knowledge, manufacturing strength in a specific product, or other similar factors.



The profitability of the AFP segment is sensitive to the global economy, market trends, and broader chemical cycles, particularly the olefins cycle.  Due to their functional performance attributes, certain of the segment's products, including cellulose-based specialty polymers, coalescents, and selected hydrocarbon resins, are less sensitive to the olefins cycle as discussed under "Eastman Chemical Company General Information - Manufacturing Streams" in this "Part I - Item 1. Business".  The Company seeks to leverage its proprietary technologies, competitive cost structure, and integrated manufacturing facilities to maintain a strong competitive position throughout such cycles.



•Principal Products

ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-UseApplicationsCoatings Industry and OtherSolvents•Texanol™•ketones•esters•glycol ethers•  alcohol solventsspecialty coalescents, specialty solvents, and commodity solventsBASF SEThe Dow Chemical CompanypropanepropyleneethaneCoatings IndustryBuilding & Construction (architectural coatings)Transportation (OEM) and refinish coatings)Durable Goods (industrial coatings applications)OtherConsumables (graphic arts, cleaners, packaging)Industrial chemicals (process solvents and intermediates)Polymers•cellulosics•polyesters•polyolefinspaint additives and specialty polymersalternative technologieswood pulppropylenepropaneCoatings IndustryTransportation (OEM and refinish coatings)Durable Goods (industrial coatings applications and wood coatings)OtherConsumables (graphic arts and printing inks)Durable Goods (packaging inks)














ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-UseApplicationsTires IndustryCrystex®insoluble sulfur rubber additiveOriental Carbon & Chemicals LimitedShikoku Chemicals Corporationnaphthenic process oilsulfurTransportation (rubber tire manufacturing)Other rubber products (such as hoses, belts, seals, and footwear)Santoflex®antidegradant rubber additiveJiangsu Sinorgchem Technology Co, Ltd.Korea Kumho Petrochemical Co. Ltd.Lanxess AGnitrobenzeneanilinemethyl isobutyl ketoneTransportation (rubber tire manufacturing)Other rubber products (such as hoses, belts, seals, and footwear)Piccotac®Kristalex®hydrocarbon resinsArizona ChemicalCray Valley Hydrocarbon Specialty ChemicalsExxon Mobil CorporationKolon Industries Incorporatedalpha methylstyrenepiperylenestyreneTransportation (rubber tire manufacturing)



Percentage of Total Segment SalesProduct Lines20132012 Pro FormaCombined20122011Coatings Industry48%49%59%73%Tires Industry34%34%20%—%Other Industries18%17%21%27%



•Growth



A key element of the AFP segment's strategy is to leverage proprietary technologies for the continued development of innovative product offerings and to focus growth efforts on expanding end-markets such as coatings, tires, and consumables.  Eastman management believes that the ability to leverage the AFP segment's research, application development, and production capabilities across multiple markets makes the segment uniquely positioned to meet evolving needs to improve the quality and performance of its customers' products.  For example, new government regulatory requirements are causing tire manufacturers to value innovative materials to help improve fuel efficiency.  Eastman’s tire additive technology allows tire manufacturers to enhance fuel efficiency performance without compromising other critical properties like handling and wet traction.



The Company's global manufacturing presence is a key element of the AFP segment's growth strategy.  For example, the segment is well positioned to capitalize on expected high industrial growth rates in China and other parts of Asia from its facilities in Singapore and Kuantan, Malaysia.



In second quarter 2013, the Company completed an expansion of ethylene oxide derivative capacity in Longview, Texas.  In addition, the Company continues to make progress in the refinement and enhancement of its technology for the manufacture of Crystex®insoluble sulfur in order to improve its cost position and introduce a higher performance product into the tires industry.  In the first half of 2014, management plans to complete evaluation of the timing of incorporating this technology into a capacity expansion at the Kuantan, Malaysia manufacturing facility to capitalize on expected high industrial growth rates in the Asia Pacific region.














ADHESIVES & PLASTICIZERS SEGMENT



•Overview



In the A&P segment, Eastman manufactures adhesives resins and plasticizers which are used in the manufacture of products sold into the consumables, building and construction, health and wellness, industrial chemicals and processing, and durable goods markets.  Market growth for adhesives resins in emerging markets such as China, Eastern Europe, and Latin America continues to be higher than regional economic growth, mainly due to growing use of consumables in these emerging economies.  Use of non-phthalate plasticizers in the United States, Canada, and Europe continues to increase more than general economic growth due to increasing regulatory requirements and consumer preferences.  Some of the segment's products are sensitive to periods of supply and demand imbalance, either when incremental capacity additions are not offset by corresponding increases in demand or when demand exceeds existing supply.  Due to their functional performance attributes, certain products, including selected hydrocarbon resins, are less sensitive to the general olefins cycle.  See "Eastman Chemical Company General Information - Manufacturing Streams" in this "Part I - Item 1. Business."  In addition to leveraging integrated manufacturing facilities and scale of production, the segment is well positioned to capitalize on meeting evolving market needs and supporting adoption of Eastman products in new or existing customer formulations.



The A&P segment focuses on producing intermediate chemicals rather than finished products and developing long-term, strategic relationships to enable customers' growth in their end markets.  In 2013, the A&P segment had sales revenue of$1.3 billion,14 percentof Eastman's total sales.  Eastman is the world's largest non-phthalate plasticizer manufacturer and ranks as the second largest global adhesives resin manufacturer.  Major competitors in this segment include large, multinational companies.  The segment competes primarily based on the breadth of its product portfolio, performance, and price.



•Principal Products

ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-UseApplicationsAdhesives ResinsPiccotacTMRegaliteTMEastotacTMEastoflexTMhydrocarbon resins and rosin resins mainly for hot-melt and pressure sensitive adhesivesExxon Mobil CorporationKolon Industries, Inc.C9 resin oilpiperylenegum rosinConsumables (resins used in hygiene and packaging adhesives)Building & Construction (resins for construction adhesives and interior flooring)PlasticizersEastman 168TMEastmanTMDOPBenzoflexTMEastman TXIBTMprimary non-phthalate and phthalate plasticizers and a range of niche non-phthalate plasticizersBASF SEExxon Mobil CorporationLG Chem, Ltd.Emerald Performance MaterialspropanepropyleneparaxyleneBuilding & Construction (non-phthalate plasticizers used in interior surfaces)Consumables (food packaging, packaging adhesives, and glove applications)Health & Wellness (medical devices)



Percentage of Total Segment SalesProduct Lines201320122011Adhesives Resins52%55%56%Plasticizers48%45%44%



•Growth



A key element of the A&P segment's strategy for growth is to leverage leading positions and market insights in high-growth hygiene, consumables, durables, and non-phthalate plasticizer applications.  Eastman management believes that the ability to leverage the A&P segment's strong technical capabilities across multiple markets makes the segment uniquely positioned to meet evolving market needs and support adoption of Eastman products in new or additional customer formulations.












The A&P segment focuses on developing and accessing markets with high-growth potential for the Company's products.  Key growth markets for the A&P segment are consumables such as hygiene and packaging, and flexible plastic products used in sensitive applications.  For flexible plastic products used in sensitive applications, the segment's strategy is to develop and provide sustainable alternatives to ortho-phthalate plasticizers traditionally used in toys, child care articles, medical packaging and devices, and food contact items.  For hygiene and packaging applications, the segment's strategy is to enhance customer options for hot-melt packaging adhesives and to enable customers to meet changing and growing needs in hygiene products.



In addition, the segment is well positioned to capitalize on expected market growth in China and other parts of Asia with a 50,000 metric ton hydrogenated hydrocarbons resin plant in Nanjing, China as part of an announced joint venture with Sinopec Yangzi Petrochemical Company Limited ("YPC"), which will support expected demand growth for its products in hygiene and packaging applications.  Management expects this plant to be operational in late 2015.



Also, in October 2013, the Company announced it is expanding its Eastman 168™ non-phthalate plasticizers manufacturing capacity at its Texas City, Texas site.  The expansion is expected to be operational mid-2014.





ADVANCED MATERIALS SEGMENT



•Overview



In the AM segment, the Company produces and markets specialty copolyesters, cellulose esters, interlayers, and aftermarket window film products that possess differentiated performance properties for value-added end uses in transportation, consumables, building and construction, durable goods, and health and wellness products.  In 2013, the AM Segment had sales revenue of$2.3 billion,25 percentof Eastman's total sales.



Eastman has strong technical and market development capabilities that enable the segment to modify its polymers, films, and plastics to control and customize their final properties for new application development to deliver more functionality.  Examples include addressing customer needs to go beyond impact strength and shatter resistance, and providing a balance of clarity and chemical resistance with Tritan™ copolyester across a diverse set of markets and applications in the specialty plastics product line and sound reduction and heat control in the interlayers product line.  Additionally, these capabilities allow the Company to maintain what management believes is its leading solar control technology position in the window film market through the use of high performance sputter coatings which enhance solar heat rejection while maintaining superior optical properties.



The segment principally competes on long-term customer relationships and differentiated technology.  Management believes the AM segment's competitive advantages include long-term customer relationships, differentiated technology, industry-leading technical service, vertical integration, leading market positions, and scale in manufacturing.
















•Principal Products

ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-UseApplicationsSpecialty PlasticsEastar™ copolyestersEastman Tritan™ copolyesterEastman Embrace™ copolyesterEastman Spectar™ copolyesterEastman Aspira™ family of resinsEastman VisualizeTMMaterialspecialty copolyesters and cellulose estersBayer AGStyron LLCEvonik Industries AGSaudi Basic Industries CorporationMitsubishi Chemical CorporationS.K. Chemical IndustriesSichuan Push Acetati Company LimitedDaicel Chemical Industries Ltdparaxyleneethylene glycolcelluloseConsumables (Specialty copolyesters used in consumer packaging, personal care and cosmetics packaging, in-store fixtures and displays)Durable Goods (consumer housewares and appliances)Health & Wellness (medical)Electronic films (displays)InterlayersSaflex®laminated safety glass and specialty intermediate polyvinyl butyral ("PVB") resinSekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.E.I. du Pont de Nemours and CompanyKuraray Co., Ltdpolyvinyl alcoholvinyl acetate monomerbutyraldehyde2-ethyl hexanolethanolTransportation (automotive safety glass)Building & Construction (PVB for architectural interlayers)Performance FilmsLlumar®V-kool®Gila®Flexvue®window film products for aftermarket applied films3M CompanySaint-Gobain S.A.Commonwealth Laminating & Coating, Inc.Garware Chemicals Limitedpolyethylene terephthalate filmTransportation (automotive after-market window film)Building & Construction (residential and commercial window films)



Percentage of Total Segment SalesProduct Lines20132012 Pro FormaCombined20122011Specialty Plastics53%52%69%100%Interlayers34%34%23%—%Performance Films13%14%8%—%












•Growth



Management believes that the segment has significant opportunities to leverage technology platforms into new products and applications, accelerate its growth, and further leverage its manufacturing capacity.  Additionally, the segment is working to expand its portfolio of higher margin products in attractive end markets.  Through Eastman's advantaged asset position and applications development innovation, management believes that the AM segment is well positioned for future growth.  An example of Eastman’s influencing the consumer purchasing decision with product design is clear handleware solutions for large containers.  The interlayers product line leverages its global presence to deliver industry leading innovations to automotive and architectural end markets by collaborating with global and large regional customers.  In the automotive end market, the performance films product line has industry leading technologies, recognized brands, and what management believes is one of the largest distribution and dealer networks which, when combined, position Eastman for growth, particularly in emerging markets such as Asia and Latin America.  The segment’s product portfolio is aligned with underlying trends toward energy efficiency in both automotive and architectural markets.  Additionally, increased demand for products free of Bisphenol A has created new opportunities for various applications of copolyesters.



In 2013, the Company began the expansion of Eastman TritanTMcopolyester capacity at its Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing facility.  This expansion is expected to be operational in the second half of 2014.



The Company is also progressing on enhancements and innovations to improve its cost position in its PVB resin technology supporting growth in the transportation and building and construction markets in the Asia Pacific region.  In the first half of 2014, management plans to complete evaluation of the timing of a capacity expansion at the Kuantan, Malaysia PVB manufacturing facility.





FIBERS SEGMENT



•Overview



In the Fibers segment, Eastman manufactures and sells EstronTMacetate tow and EstrobondTMtriacetin plasticizers for use primarily in the manufacture of cigarette filters; EstronTMnatural (undyed) and ChromspunTMsolution-dyed acetate yarns for use in apparel, home furnishings, and industrial fabrics; and cellulose acetate flake and acetyl raw materials for other acetate fiber producers, including the Company's new joint venture acetate tow manufacturing facility in Hefei, China.  Eastman is one of the world's two largest suppliers of acetate tow and has been a market leader in the manufacture and sale of acetate tow since it began production in the early 1950s.  The Company is the world's largest producer of acetate yarn and has been in this business for over 75 years.  In 2013, the Fibers segment had sales revenue of$1.4 billion,16 percentof Eastman's total sales.  The Fibers segment has been and is expected to be a strong and stable source of cash flow and earnings.



Eastman's Fibers segment customers are located in all regions of the world, yet are relatively concentrated in terms of total overall number of customers.  The largest 13 customers within the Fibers segment include multinational as well as regional cigarette producers, fabric manufacturers, and other acetate fiber producers.  These top 13 customers accounted for about 80 percent of the segment's total sales revenue in 2013, although the segment is not dependent on any single customer.  Sales prices for a significant portion of the Fibers segment's products are typically negotiated on an annual basis.  The segment maintains a strong position in acetate tow exports to China.



The Company's long history and experience in the fibers markets are reflected in the Fibers segment's operating expertise, both within the Company and in support of its customers' processes.  The Fibers segment's knowledge of the industry and of customers' processes allows it to assist its customers in maximizing their processing efficiencies, promoting repeat sales, and mutually beneficial, long-term customer relationships.



The Company's fully integrated fiber manufacturing process employs unique technology that allows it to use a broad range of high-purity wood pulps for which the Company has dependable sources of supply.



Contributing to the profitability in the Fibers segment is the limited number of competitors, high industry capacity utilization, and significant barriers to entry.  These barriers include, but are not limited to, high capital costs for integrated manufacturing facilities.












The Fibers segment's competitive strengths include a reputation for high-quality products, technical expertise, large scale vertically-integrated processes, reliability of supply, acetate flake supply in excess of internal needs, a reputation for customer service excellence, and a customer base characterized by long-term customer relationships.  The Company intends to continue to capitalize and build on these strengths to improve the strategic position of its Fibers segment.  The principal methods of competition include maintaining the Company's large-scale vertically integrated manufacturing process from acetyl raw materials, reliability of supply, product quality, and sustaining long-term customer relationships.



•Principal Products

ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-UseApplicationsAcetate TowEstron™cellulose acetate towCelanese CorporationSolvay S.A.Daicel CorporationMitsubishi Rayon Co. Ltd.wood pulpmethanolhigh sulfur coalTobacco (manufacture of cigarette filters)Acetate YarnEstron™Chromspun™Cosilva™natural (undyed) acetate yarnsolution dyed acetate yarnIndustrias del Acetato de Celulosa S.A.UAB KorelitaMitsubishi Rayon Co. Ltd.wood pulpmethanolhigh sulfur coalConsumables (apparel, home furnishings, and industrial fabrics)Health & Wellness (medical tape)Acetyl Chemical ProductsEstrobond™cellulose diacetate flakeacetic acidacetic anhydridetriacetinJiangsu Ruijia Chemistry Co., Ltd.Polynt SPADaicel CorporationCelanese CorporationSolvay S.A.wood pulpmethanolhigh sulfur coalTobacco (manufacture of cigarette filters)



Percentage of Total Segment SalesProduct Lines201320122011Acetate Tow83%86%82%Acetate Yarn and Acetyl Chemical Products17%14%18%



•Growth



In the Fibers segment, Eastman continues to leverage its strong customer relationships and industry knowledge to identify growth options.  These growth options have been enabled primarily by its acetate flake capacity at the Kingsport, Tennessee site.  Eastman's total global acetate tow capacity is approximately 210,000 metric tons.  In third quarter 2013, the Company completed construction of a 30,000 metric ton acetate tow manufacturing facility in Hefei, China, in a joint venture with China National Tobacco Corporation in which the Company has 45 percent ownership.  The Company supplies 100 percent of the acetate flake raw material to the joint venture from the Company's manufacturing facility in Kingsport.  The Company expects to begin to recognize earnings through its equity investment, reported in "Other (income) charges, net" in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, in the joint venture beginning in 2014.  The Company continues to evaluate other growth opportunities, particularly in the Asia Pacific region.



The Company intends to continue to make use of its capabilities in fibers technology to maintain a strong focus on incremental product and process improvements, with the goals of meeting customers' evolving needs and improving the segment's manufacturing process efficiencies.



The Company's Fibers segment research and development efforts focus on process and product improvements, as well as cost reduction, with the objectives of increasing sales and reducing costs.  The Fibers segment also conducts research to assist acetate tow customers in the effective use of the segment's products and in the customers' product development efforts.














SPECIALTY FLUIDS & INTERMEDIATES SEGMENT



•Overview



The SFI segment leverages large scale and vertical integration from the acetyl and olefins streams and proprietary manufacturing technology for specialty fluids to manufacture diversified products that are sold externally for use in markets such as industrial chemicals and processing; building and construction; health and wellness; and agriculture, as well as used internally by other segments of the Company.  The SFI segment has leading market positions in many of its core products, and management believes it is well-positioned in key markets for most of its major products including specialty fluids, acetyl chemical intermediates products and olefin derivatives due to its competitive cost position, scale, technology, and reliability of supply compared to competitors.  In 2013, the SFI segment had sales revenue of$2.5 billion,27 percentof the Company's total sales.



Historically, the intermediates product line's competitive cost position has been primarily due to use of and access to lower cost raw materials such as coal, which is used in the production of acetyl stream products, and olefin feedstocks, which are used in the production of olefin derivative products.  Some of the product line’s products are affected by the olefins cycle.  See "Eastman Chemical Company General Information - Manufacturing Streams" in this "Part I - Item 1. Business."  This cyclicality is caused by periods of supply and demand imbalance, either when incremental capacity additions are not offset by corresponding increases in demand or when demand exceeds existing supply.  While management continues to take steps to reduce the impact of the trough of the olefins cycle, future SFI segment results are expected to continue to fluctuate from period to period due both to general economic conditions and olefins supply and demand.  Due to timing of customer project completions, the specialty fluids product line revenues fluctuate and are, from time to time, concentrated in certain quarters.  The specialty fluids product line differentiates itself with superior products backed by customer service.  For example, the Therminol®brand offers the widest range of synthetic fluids for indirect heating and cooling to allow customers to optimize their operational efficiency.



•Principal Products

ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-UseApplicationsSpecialty FluidsTherminol®Skydrol®heat transfer and aviation fluidsThe Dow Chemical CompanyExxon Mobil CorporationbenzenephosphorousIndustrial Chemicals & Processing (heat transfer fluids for chemical processes)Commercial aviationChemical Intermediatesoxo alcohols & derivativesacetic acid and  derivativesacetic anhydridechemical intermediatesBASF SEThe Dow Chemical CompanyOxeaBP plcCelanese CorporationLonzapropaneethanepropylenecoalacetic acidnatural gasIndustrial Chemicals & ProcessingBuilding & Construction (paint/coating applications, construction chemicals, building materials)Pharmaceuticals and agricultureHealth & WellnessOther Intermediatesethyleneacetic acidoxo alcoholspolymer Intermediatesolefin, chemical intermediates, and polymer intermediatesLyondellBasell IndustriesCelanese CorporationBP plcBASF SEFlint Hill Resourcespropaneethanepropylenecoalnatural gasparaxylenemetaxyleneBuilding & Construction (paint/coating applications, construction chemicals, building materials)Industrial Chemicals & ProcessingPackaging












Percentage of Total Segment SalesProduct Lines20132012 Pro FormaCombined20122011Specialty Fluids13%13%7%—%Chemical Intermediates48%48%51%54%Other Intermediates39%39%42%46%



•Growth



A key focus for the segment is to continue to develop and access markets with high-growth potential for the Company's specialty fluids products.  A major goal is to expand volumes in high-growth markets for Therminol®heat transfer fluids through market development efforts.  In addition, the segment is working closely with key suppliers and customers on commercialization of Skydrol®PE-5, a state of the art fluid designed to meet the demanding requirements of next generation aircraft.



To maintain and enhance its status as a low cost producer, the SFI segment continuously focuses on cost control, operational efficiency, and capacity utilization to maximize earnings in the chemical intermediates and other intermediates product lines.  Through the SFI segment, the Company maximizes the advantage of its highly integrated and world-scale manufacturing facilities.  For example, the Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing facility allows the SFI segment to produce acetic anhydride and other acetyl derivatives from coal rather than natural gas or other petroleum feedstocks.  At the Longview, Texas manufacturing facility, Eastman's SFI segment uses its proprietary oxo-technology in the world's largest single-site, oxo butyraldehyde manufacturing facility to produce a wide range of alcohols and other derivative products utilizing local propane and ethane supplies, as well as purchased propylene.  These integrated facilities, combined with large scale production processes and a continuous focus on additional process improvements, allow the chemical intermediates and other intermediates product lines to remain cost competitive with, and for some products cost-advantaged over, competitors.



The Company debottlenecked its largest olefins cracking unit in Longview, Texas in first quarter 2013, primarily to produce more ethylene to improve Eastman's olefin cost position.  Additionally, the Company began a Therminol®heat transfer fluid capacity expansion in Newport, Wales, which is expected to be operational in the second half of 2014 to support expected demand in the industrial chemicals and processing market.  During second quarter 2012, the Company entered into an agreement with Enterprise Products Partners L.P. to purchase propylene from a planned propane dehydrogenation plant expected to be operational in 2015, expected to further improve the Company's competitive cost position compared to purchasing olefins in the North American market.  Prior to completion of the plant, the Company expects to continue to benefit from a propylene market contract improving its cost position for purchased propylene beginning in 2013.



The Company continues to actively pursue options with third parties for monetizing the Company's excess ethylene capacity.  The Company intends to retain its cost-advantaged integrated position to propylene which supports derivatives throughout the Company.



The Company is also actively pursuing licensing opportunities for acetyls, oxo derivatives, and mono ethylene glycol, including the announcement in fourth quarter 2013 of the development, in conjunction with a third party, of advanced proprietary technology for the production of ethylene glycol from synthesis gas-based feedstocks.



In January 2014, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the assets of BP plc's global aviation turbine engine oil business, which had 2013 annual revenues of approximately $100 million.  When added to the segment's Skydrol®aviation fluids, the acquired product portfolio is expected to enable Eastman to better meet the global aviation industry's needs.  The acquisition is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2014.














CORPORATE INITIATIVES



In addition to its business segments, the Company manages certain costs and initiatives at the corporate level, including certain R&D costs not allocated to any one operating segment.  The Company uses a stage-gating process, which is a disciplined decision making framework for evaluating targeted opportunities, with a number of projects at various stages of development.  As projects meet milestones, additional investment is committed to those projects.  The Company continues to explore and invest in R&D initiatives that are aligned with macro trends in sustainability, consumerism, and energy efficiency such as high performance materials, advanced cellulosics, and environmentally-friendly chemistry.  An example of such an initiative is Eastman™ microfiber technology which leverages the Company's core competency in polymers chemistry, spinning capability, and in-house application expertise, for use in high purity air filtration, liquid filtration, and energy storage media, and with opportunities for future growth in nonwoven and textile applications.  CerfisTMtechnology for the building and construction market was previously included in Corporate Initiatives and is now managed within the AM segment in order to support current and future commercial applications.  In fourth quarter 2013, management decided not to continue its Perennial WoodTMgrowth initiative.





REGIONAL BUSINESS OVERVIEW



Eastman operates as a global business with approximately 55 percent of its sales generated from outside the United States and Canada region in 2013.  As the Company focuses on growth in emerging markets, the percentage of sales from outside the United States and Canada is expected to increase.  With the acquisition of Solutia, the Company has expanded its international manufacturing presence, and the Company is also able to transport products globally to meet demand.  While all regions continue to be affected by the uncertainty in the global economy, the degree of the impact on the various regions is dependent on the mix of the Company's segments and products in each region.



In 2013, the regional revenue by segments was as follows:



United States and CanadaAsia PacificEurope, Middle East, and AfricaLatin AmericaAdditives & Functional Products17%19%18%30%Adhesives & Plasticizers17%5%19%18%Advanced Materials20%26%35%25%Fibers7%31%16%9%Specialty Fluids & Intermediates39%19%12%18%TOTAL100%100%100%100%



In addition, segment revenue by region for 2013 was as follows:

Additives & Functional ProductsAdhesives & PlasticizersAdvanced MaterialsFibersSpecialty Fluids & IntermediatesCombinedUnited States and Canada42%56%37%20%67%46%Asia Pacific29%9%29%56%19%28%Europe, Middle East, and Africa20%28%29%21%10%21%Latin America9%7%5%3%4%5%TOTAL100%100%100%100%100%100%



The United States and Canada region contains the highest concentration of the Company's long-lived assets with approximately 75 percent located in the United States.  Management believes that the location of these manufacturing facilities provides the Company with an advantaged cost position for the Company's domestic customers, particularly for commodity and bulk products.  The SFI segment accounted for approximately 40 percent of the region's revenue, as the segment is well-positioned in this region's market for most of its major products, including acetic acid and acetic anhydride, although revenues in the region can be volatile due to the dependence of this segment's selling prices on key raw material and energy costs.












The Asia Pacific region includes a portfolio of specialty products that benefit from both the emerging middle class in the region and a focused shift in China from government infrastructure spending to a consumer driven economy.  The Company is responding to this growth by strengthening its position through joint ventures and acquisitions.  These include a joint venture with China National Tobacco Corporation for a new 30,000 metric ton acetate tow manufacturing facility in Hefei, China completed during third quarter 2013, and from which the Company expects earnings through its equity investment, reported in "Other (income) charges, net" in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, in the joint venture beginning in 2014.  The Company also has an announced joint venture with YPC to build a hydrogenated hydrocarbon resin plant in Nanjing, China, expected to be operational in late 2015, which will be equally owned by the two companies, and is expected to produce 50,000 metric tons of the A&P segment's Regalite™ hydrocarbon resins upon completion.  The Company is also evaluating capacity expansions at the Kuantan, Malaysia manufacturing facility for both Crystex®insoluble sulfur in the AFP segment and PVB resin in the AM segment.  Approximately 30 percent of revenue in the region is from acetate tow products in the Fibers segment.



Company revenues in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region have recently been affected by the ongoing economic weakness in Europe.  However, regulatory requirements and consumer preferences in Europe have allowed sales of certain of the Company's products to increase more than general economic growth.  Additionally, growth in the emerging economies of Eastern Europe for certain products, has been higher than global economic growth because of higher growth in GDP and per capita income.  The AM segment accounted for approximately 35 percent of the region's revenue, with a high concentration of interlayers product line sales in this region.



The Company is focused on market trends in the Latin America region that include the growing use of adhesives for consumables and performance films for automotive end market applications.  Revenue in the region is subject to increased volatility due to product availability and the dependence of selling prices on key raw material and energy costs for the chemical intermediates product line in the SFI segment.  The AFP segment accounted for approximately 30 percent of the region's revenue.



Financial Information About Geographic Areas



For sales revenue and long-lived assets by geographic areas, see Note21, "Segment Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY GENERAL INFORMATION



Seasonality and Cyclicality



The Company's earnings are typically greater in second and third quarters, and cash flows from operations are highest in the second half of the year due to seasonal demand based on general economic activity in key markets the Company serves as described in "Business Segments".  Results in the A&P and the AM segments are typically weaker in fourth quarter due to seasonal downturns in key markets.



The intermediates product lines ofthe SFI segment and the solvents product lines of the AFP segment are impacted by the cyclicality of key end products and markets, while other segments are more sensitive to global economic conditions.  Supply and demand dynamics determine profitability at different stages of business cycles and global economic conditions affect the length of each cycle.



Despite sensitivity to global economic conditions, many of the products of each segment are expected to continue to provide an overall stable foundation for earnings.



Sales, Marketing, and Distribution



The Company markets and sells products primarily through a global marketing and sales organization which has a presence in the United States and in 30 other countries selling into approximately 120 countries around the world.  Eastman has a marketing and sales strategy targeting industries and applications where Eastman products and services provide differentiated value.  Market, customer, application, and technical expertise are critical capabilities.  Through a highly skilled and specialized sales force that is capable of providing differentiated product solutions, Eastman strives to be the preferred supplier in the Company's targeted markets.












The Company's products are also marketed through indirect channels, which include distributors and contract representatives.  Sales outside the United States tend to be made more frequently through distributors and contract representatives than sales in the United States.  The combination of direct and indirect sales channels, including sales online through its Customer Center website, allows Eastman to reliably serve customers throughout the world.



The Company's products are shipped to customers directly from Eastman's manufacturing plants and from distribution centers worldwide.



Sources and Availability of Raw Material and Energy



Eastman purchases a substantial portion, estimated to be approximately 70 percent, of its key raw materials and energy through different contract mechanisms, generally of two to five years in initial duration with renewal or cancellation options for each party.  Most of these agreements do not require the Company to purchase materials or energy if its operations are reduced or idle.  The cost of raw materials and energy is generally based on market price at the time of purchase, and Eastman uses derivative financial instruments to mitigate the impact of short-term market price fluctuations.  Key raw materials include propane, paraxylene, cellulose, propylene, natural gas, coal, ethane, and a wide variety of precursors for specialty organic chemicals.  Key purchased energy sources include natural gas, steam, coal, and electricity.  The Company has multiple suppliers for most key raw materials and energy and uses quality management principles, such as the establishment of long-term relationships with suppliers and on-going performance assessment and benchmarking, as part of its supplier selection process.  When appropriate, the Company purchases raw materials from a single source supplier to maximize quality and cost improvements, and has developed contingency plans designed to minimize the potential impact of any supply disruptions from single source suppliers.



While temporary shortages of raw materials and energy may occasionally occur, these items are generally sufficiently available to cover current and projected requirements.  However, their continuous availability and cost are subject to unscheduled plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, domestic and world market conditions, changes in government regulation, natural disasters, war or other outbreak of hostilities or terrorism or other political factors, or breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure.  Eastman's operations or products have in the past, and may in the future, be adversely affected by these factors.  The Company's raw material and energy costs as a percent of total cost of operations were approximately 60 percent, 55 percent, and 65 percent in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.



Manufacturing Streams



Integral to Eastman's strategy for growth is leveraging its heritage of expertise and innovation in acetyl, olefins, and polyester chemistries in key markets, including building and construction, consumables, transportation, and tobacco.  For each of these chemistries, Eastman has developed a combination of assets and technologies that are operated within three manufacturing "streams".



•In the acetyl stream, the Company begins with coal and oxygen which are then gasified in its coal gasification facility.  The resulting synthesis gas is converted into a number of chemicals including methanol, methyl acetate, acetic acid, and acetic anhydride.  These chemicals are used in manufacturing products throughout the Company including, but not limited to, cellulose fibers, plastics, and esters.  The Company's ability to use coal is considered to be a raw material cost advantage.  The major end uses for products from the acetyl stream include coatings, displays, and tobacco.












•

•In the polyester stream, the Company begins with purchased paraxylene and produces purified terephthalic acid ("PTA") and dimethyl terephthalate ("DMT") for polyesters and copolyesters.  PTA or DMT is then reacted with various glycols, which the Company either makes or purchases, along with other raw materials (some of which the Company makes and are proprietary) to produce copolyesters.  The Company believes that this backward integration of polyester manufacturing is a competitive advantage, giving Eastman a low cost position, as well as a more reliable intermediate supply.  In addition, Eastman can add specialty monomers to copolyesters to provide clear, tough, chemically resistant product characteristics.  As a result, the Company's copolyesters effectively compete with materials such as polycarbonate and acrylic.



In addition to stream integration, the Company also derives value from Eastman's cellulosics expertise.  These cellulosics are natural polymers, sourced from managed forests, which, when combined with the acetyl and olefin streams, provide differentiated product lines and an advantaged raw material position for Eastman.



The Company continues to leverage its heritage of expertise and innovation in acetyl, olefins, and polyester chemistries and technologies, as well as its use of cellulosics, to meet demand and create new uses and opportunities for the Company's products in key markets.  Through integration and optimization across these streams, the Company is able to create unique and differentiated products that have a performance advantage over competitive materials.  The Company's acquired Solutia businesses are expected to benefit from Eastman legacy chemistries for some of their products.  The Company continues to assess the unique chemistries and manufacturing streams of its businesses to further determine both the appropriate stream integration approach and the level of stream integration.



Capital Expenditures



Capital expenditures were$483 million,$465 million, and$457 millionin 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.  Capital expenditures in 2013 were primarily for improvements to plants, purchases of equipment, and organic growth initiatives particularly in the SFI and AM segments.  The Company expects that 2014 capital spending will be approximately $600 million, including capital investment that will modernize and expand the Kingsport, Tennessee site, and a Therminol® heat transfer fluid capacity expansion in Newport, Wales.



Employees



Eastman employs approximately 14,000 men and women worldwide.  Approximately 10 percent of the total worldwide labor force is represented by unions, mostly outside the United States.



Customers



Eastman has an extensive customer base and, while it is not dependent on any one customer, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect the Company until such business is replaced.  The top 100 customers accounted for approximately 60 percent of the Company's 2013 sales revenue.  No single customer accounted for 10 percent or more of the Company's consolidated sales revenue during 2013.












Intellectual Property and Trademarks



While the Company's intellectual property portfolio is an important Company asset which it expands and vigorously protects globally through a combination of patents that expire at various times, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets, neither its business as a whole nor any particular segment is materially dependent upon any one particular patent, trademark, copyright, or trade secret.  The Company's intellectual property relates to a wide variety of products and processes and the portfolio of intellectual property was significantly expanded by the Solutia acquisition.  As a producer of a broad range of advanced materials, additives and functional products, specialty chemicals, and fibers, Eastman owns over 700 active United States patents and more than 1,700 active foreign patents, expiring at various times over several years, and also owns over 4,800 active worldwide trademark applications and registrations.  Eastman continues to actively protect its intellectual property.As the laws of many countries do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States, Eastman cannot ensure that it will be able to adequately protect its intellectual property assets outside the United States.



The Company pursues opportunities to license proprietary technology to third parties in areas where it has determined competitive impact to its businesses will be minimal.These arrangements typically are structured to require payments at significant project milestones such as signing, completion of design, and start-up.  To date, efforts have been focused on acetyls technology in the SFI segment.  The Company is also actively pursuing licensing opportunities for acetyls, oxo derivatives, and mono ethylene glycol in the SFI segment, including the announcement in fourth quarter 2013 of the development, in conjunction with a third party, of advanced proprietary technology for the production of ethylene glycol from synthesis gas-based feedstocks.



Research and Development



For 2013, 2012, and 2011, Eastman's R&D expenses totaled $193 million, $198 million, and $159 million, respectively.



Environmental



Eastman is subject to significant and complex laws, regulations, and legal requirements relating to the use, storage, handling, generation, transportation, emission, discharge, disposal, and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes in all of the countries in which it does business.  These health, safety, and environmental considerations are a priority in the Company's planning for all existing and new products and processes.  The Health, Safety, Environmental and Security Committee of Eastman's Board of Directors oversees the Company's policies and practices concerning health, safety, and the environment and its processes for complying with related laws and regulations, and monitors related matters.



The Company's policy is to operate its plants and facilities in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations such that it protects the environment and the health and safety of its employees and the public.  The Company intends to continue to make expenditures for environmental protection and improvements in a timely manner consistent with its policies and with the technology available.  In some cases, applicable environmental regulations such as those adopted under the Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, and related actions of regulatory agencies, determine the timing and amount of environmental costs incurred by the Company.  Likewise, when finalized, potential legislation related to greenhouse gas emissions, energy policy, and associated implementing regulations could impact the timing and amount of environmental costs incurred by the Company.  The Company has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption on a unit basis over the last five years.



The Company accrues environmental costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  In some instances, the amount cannot be reasonably estimated due to insufficient information, particularly as to the nature and timing of future expenditures.  In these cases, the liability is monitored until such time that sufficient information exists.  With respect to a contaminated site, the amount accrued reflects liabilities expected to be paid out within 30 years and the Company's assumptions about remediation requirements at the site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties.  Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations, and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs.  The Company's cash expenditures related to environmental protection and improvement were $

285 million

, $262 million, and $219 million, in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.  These amounts were primarily for operating costs associated with environmental protection equipment and facilities, but also included $

53 million

and $34 million in expenditures for engineering and construction in 2013 and 2012, respectively.  Expenditures in 2012 also included costs and expenditures in the second half of the year for sites acquired in the acquisition of Solutia.












Costs of certain remediation projects included in the environmental reserve assumed in the acquisition of Solutia are subject to a cost-sharing arrangement with Monsanto Company ("Monsanto") under the provisions of the Amended and Restated Settlement Agreement effective February 28, 2008 (the "Effective Date"), into which Solutia entered with Monsanto upon its emergence from bankruptcy (the "Monsanto Settlement Agreement").  Under the provisions of the Monsanto Settlement Agreement, the Company shares responsibility with Monsanto for remediation at certain locations outside of the boundaries of plant sites in Anniston, Alabama and Sauget, Illinois (the "Shared Sites").  The Company is responsible for the funding of environmental liabilities at the Shared Sites up to a total of $325 million from the Effective Date.  If remediation costs for the Shared Sites exceed this amount, such costs will thereafter be shared equally between the Company and Monsanto.  Including payments by Solutia prior to its acquisition by Eastman, $56 millionhad been paid for costs at the Shared Sites as of December 31, 2013.  As of December 31, 2013, an additional $215 millionhas been accrued for estimated future remediation costs at the Shared Sites, over a period of thirty years.



Management anticipates that capital expenditures associated with boiler air emissions regulations will modestly increase average annual environmental capital expenditures over the next four to five years compared to recent historical levels.  However, the Company has decided to convert 50 percent of its steam and electric generation capacity at the Kingsport, Tennessee facility to natural gas over that period which the Company believes is more cost-efficient.  Management does not believe that these expenditures will have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or cash flows.  Other than these planned capital expenditures at the Company's Kingsport, Tennessee facility, the Company does not currently expect future environmental capital expenditures arising from requirements of recently promulgated environmental laws and regulations to materially increase the Company's planned level of annual capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.



Other matters concerning health, safety, and the environment are discussed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II Item 7 and in Notes 1, "Significant Accounting Policies"; 13, "Environmental Matters"; and 23, "Reserve Rollforwards" to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.



Backlog



On January 1, 2014 and 2013, Eastman's backlog of firm sales orders represented less than 10 percent of the Company's total consolidated revenue for the previous year.  These orders are primarily short-term and all orders are expected to be filled in the following year.  The Company manages its inventory levels to control the backlog of products depending on customers' needs.  In areas where the Company is the single source of supply, or competitive forces or customers' needs dictate, the Company may carry additional inventory to meet customer requirements.



Available Information - SEC Filings



The Company makes available free of charge, through the "Investors - SEC Information" section of its Internet website (www.eastman.com), its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").



The Company is required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.
















