ITEM 1.  BUSINESS



CORPORATE OVERVIEW



Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company") is a global chemical company which manufactures and sells a broad portfolio of chemicals, plastics, and fibers.  Eastman began business in 1920 for the purpose of producing chemicals for Eastman Kodak Company's photographic business and became a public company, incorporated in Delaware, on December 31, 1993.  Eastman has nineteen manufacturing sites in ten countries and equity interests in joint ventures that supply chemicals, plastics, and fibers products to customers throughout the world.  The Company's headquarters and largest manufacturing site are located in Kingsport, Tennessee.



In 2011, the Company had sales revenue of $7.2 billion, operating earnings of $1.0 billion, and earnings from continuing operations of $657 million.  Earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $4.59 in 2011.  Asset impairments and restructuring charges and gains included in 2011 operating earnings were gains of $8 million.



The Company's products and operations are managed and reported in four operating segments: the Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks ("CASPI") segment, the Fibers segment, the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates ("PCI") segment, and the Specialty Plastics segment.  The Company manages certain costs and initiatives at the corporate level, including certain research and development ("R&D") costs not allocated to the operating segments.  For additional information concerning the Company's operating segments, seeNote 22 "Segment Information"to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Annual Report").



Business Strategy



Eastman's objective is to be an outperforming chemical company through consistently solid financial results and disciplined execution of its growth strategies.  The Company's business segments currently sell differentiated products into diverse markets and geographic regions.  Management believes that the Company can increase the revenues from its businesses with increasing profitability through a balance of new applications for existing products, development of new products, and sales growth in adjacent markets and emerging economies.  These revenue and earnings increases are expected to result from both organic (internal growth) and inorganic (external growth through joint venture and acquisition) initiatives.



The Company is focusing on the following recently completed and current growth initiatives:



·Inthe PCI segment, the Company completed several initiatives in 2011 to expand its non-phthalate plasticizer business, including the acquisitions of Sterling Chemicals, Inc. ("Sterling") and Scandiflex do Brasil S.A. Indústrias Químicas ("Scandiflex").  The acquired Sterling idled plasticizer manufacturing unit is being retrofitted to produce non-phthalate plasticizers, with the first of two phases expected to be online in the first half of 2012.  The Company also plans to increase capacity of 2-ethyl hexanol in first half 2012 to support expected growth in the plasticizers, coatings, and fuel additive markets.

·In the Specialty Plastics segment, the Company is adding another 30,000 metric tons of resin capacity at its facility in Kingsport, Tennessee for TritanTMcopolyester polymer, which is expected to be operational in early 2012.  The Company is expanding its capacity for cyclohexane dimethanol ("CHDM"), a monomer used in the manufacture of copolyesters, by 25 percent in two phases with the first operational in fourth quarter 2011 and the second expected to be operational in first quarter 2012.  In addition, the Company is expanding its cellulose triacetatecapacity by 70 percent, with the new capacity expected to be operational in first quarter 2012.

·In the CASPI segment, the Company completed an additional 20 percent expansion of its hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins manufacturing capacity in Middelburg, the Netherlands, and an additional 10 percent debottleneck of the hydrogenated hydrocarbon facility in Longview, Texas in 2011.  The Company also acquired Dynaloy, LLC ("Dynaloy") in 2011 as part of its electronic materials growth initiative.

·In the Fibers segment, in 2011 the Company entered into a joint venture for a 30,000 metric ton acetate tow manufacturing facility in China, expected to be operational in mid-2013.








·The Company continues to explore and invest in R&D initiatives at a corporate level that are aligned with macro trends in sustainability, consumerism, and energy efficiency through high performance materials, advanced cellulosics, and environmentally-friendly chemistry.  These initiatives include the completion of a demonstration facility for market testing of acetylated wood, branded as Perennial WoodTM, in second half 2011 and commercial introduction in first quarter 2012 to select markets; the initial commercial introduction of the new Eastman CerfisTMbuilding and construction products technology, with anticipation that the application will be expanded nationwide by the end of 2012; and the announcement of the new EastmanTMmicrofiber technology.

·On January 26, 2012, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Solutia Inc. ("Solutia"), a global leader in performance materials and specialty chemicals.  The transaction remains subject to approval by Solutia's shareholders and receipt of required regulatory approvals as well as other customary closing conditions.  The transaction is expected to close in mid-2012.  The acquisition of Solutia is expected to:

obroaden Eastman's global presence, particularly in Asia Pacific;

oestablish a combined platform with organic growth opportunities through complementary technologies and business capabilities and an overlap of key end-markets; and

oexpand Eastman's portfolio of sustainable products.

For further information, see Part II—Item 7—"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview" and "Outlook" of this Annual Report.



The Company benefits from advantaged feedstocks and proprietary technologies, and is focusing on sustainability as a competitive strength for growth.  Eastman has developed new products and technologies that enable customers' development and sales of sustainable products, and has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption on a unit basis.



Management expects continued earnings growth, despite ongoing economic uncertainty, as a result of the strength of the Company's businesses and balance sheet.  The Company continues to evaluate inorganic growth opportunities, through joint ventures and acquisitions, intended to enhance the Company's product portfolios and to extend into emerging markets.



Manufacturing Streams



Integral to Eastman's corporate strategy for growth is leveraging its heritage of expertise and innovation in acetyl, olefins, and polyester chemistries in key markets, including packaging, tobacco, building and construction, and consumables.  For each of these chemistries, Eastman has developed a combination of assets and technologies that are operated within three manufacturing "streams".



·In the acetyl stream, the Company begins with high sulfur coal which is then gasified in its coal gasification facility.  The resulting synthesis gas is converted into a number of chemicals including methanol, methyl acetate, acetic acid, and acetic anhydride.  These chemicals are used in manufacturing products throughout the Company including acetate tow, acetate yarn, and cellulose esters.  The Company's ability to use coal is a raw material cost advantage.  The Company continues to evaluate opportunities to further leverage its gasification expertise to produce additional cost advantaged chemicals from petroleum coke or coal in addition to natural gas and petroleum.  Manufacturing capacities in 2011 of select chemicals and product lines in the acetyl stream for acetic chemicals included: 611 million pounds of acetic acid; 1,631 million pounds of acetic anhydride; and 475 million pounds of methanol.  These quantities are an average for the year based on the number of operating days and daily rates per manufacturing asset.






·



·In the polyester stream, the Company begins with purchased paraxylene and produces purified terephthalic acid ("PTA") and dimethyl terephthalate ("DMT") for polyesters and copolyesters.  PTA or DMT is then reacted with ethylene glycol, which the Company both makes and purchases, along with other raw materials (some of which the Company makes and are proprietary) to produce polyesters.  The Company believes that this backward integration of polyester manufacturing is a competitive advantage, giving Eastman a low cost position, as well as surety of intermediate supply.  In addition, Eastman can add specialty monomers to copolyesters to provide clear, tough, chemically resistant product characteristics.  As a result, the Company's copolyesters can effectively compete with materials such as polycarbonate and acrylic.








The following chart shows significant Eastman products, markets, and end uses by segment and manufacturing stream.



SEGMENTACETYL STREAMPOLYESTER STREAMOLEFINS STREAMKEY PRODUCTS, MARKETS, ANDEND USESCASPIXXPolymers, resins, and solvents for paints and coatings used in architectural, transportation, industrial, and original equipment manufacturing ("OEM"); inks used in packaging; adhesives ingredients used in tapes, labels, personal care products and building and construction uses; and other formulated productsFibersXAcetate fibers for filter products and textilesPCIXXXIntermediate chemicals for agriculture, transportation, beverages, nutrition, building and construction, pharmaceuticals, coatings, medical devices, toys, adhesives, household products, polymers, textiles, consumer and industrial products, and health and wellness usesSpecialty PlasticsXXXCopolyesters and cellulosics for appliances, store fixtures and displays, building and construction, electronic packaging, medical devices and packaging, graphic arts, general purpose packaging, personal care and cosmetics, food and beverage packaging, performance films, tape and labels, fibers/nonwovens, photographic and optical films, and liquid crystal displays ("LCD")



In addition to stream integration, the Company also derives value from Eastman's cellulosics expertise.  These cellulosics are natural polymers, sourced from managed forests, which, when combined with the acetyl and olefin streams, provide differentiated product lines and an advantaged raw material position for Eastman.



The Company continues to leverage its heritage of expertise and innovation in acetyl, polyester, and olefins chemistries and technologies, as well as its use of cellulosics, to meet demand and create new uses and opportunities for the Company's products in key markets.  Through integration and optimization across these streams, the Company is able to create unique and differentiated products that have a performance advantage over competitive materials.



Cyclicality and Seasonality



The commodity olefins and olefin derivatives product lines in the PCI segment and the commodity solvent product lines in the CASPI segment are impacted by the cyclicality of key products and markets, while the other segments are more sensitive to global economic conditions.  Supply and demand dynamics determine profitability at different stages of cycles and global economic conditions affect the length of each cycle.  Despite sensitivity to global economic conditions, many of the products in the Fibers and CASPI segments provide a stable foundation of earnings.



The Company's earnings are typically greater in the second and third quarters and cash flows from operations are greatest in fourth quarter due to seasonality.  Demand for CASPI segment products is typically stronger in the second and third quarters due to the increased use of coatings products in the building and construction industries, while demand is typically weaker during the winter months because of seasonal construction downturns.  The PCI segment typically has weaker fourth quarter financial results, due in part to a seasonal downturn in demand for products used in certain building and construction and agricultural markets.






FinancialStrategy



In addition to managing its businesses and growth initiatives, the Company remains committed to maintaining a strong financial position with financial flexibility and consistently solid cash flows.  The Company employs what management believes is a disciplined process for capital allocation and deployment of cash.  The Company pursues a variety of organic growth opportunities and also considers appropriate inorganic growth opportunities, including joint ventures and acquisitions.  The Company also returns cash to stockholders through dividends and from time to time by share repurchases.  The Company also manages its debt based upon its capital structure objectives, funding requirements, and public and private debt market conditions.



BUSINESSSEGMENTS



The Company's products and operations are currently managed and reported in four operating segments: the CASPI segment, the Fibers segment, the PCI segment, and the Specialty Plastics segment.



CASPISEGMENT



·Overview



In the CASPI segment, the Company manufactures resins, specialty polymers, and solvents which are integral to the production of paints and coatings, inks, adhesives, and other formulated products.  Growth in these markets in the U.S., Canada, and Europe typically approximates general economic growth due to the wide variety of end uses for these applications.  Typically, growth in these markets in Asia, Eastern Europe, and Latin America continues to be higher than worldwide economic growth, driven by regional growth in these emerging economies.  The CASPI segment focuses on producing intermediate chemicals rather than finished products and developing long-term, strategic relationships to achieve preferred supplier status with its customers.  In 2011, the CASPI segment had sales revenue of $1.8 billion, 26 percent of Eastman's total sales.



The profitability of the CASPI segment is sensitive to the global economy, market trends, broader chemical cycles, particularly the olefins cycle, and foreign currency exchange rates.  The CASPI segment's specialty products, which include cellulose-based specialty polymers, coalescents, and selected hydrocarbon resins, are less sensitive to the olefins cycle due to their functional performance attributes.  The segment's commodity products, which include commodity solvents, are more impacted by the olefins cycle as discussed under "Manufacturing Streams."  The Company seeks to leverage its proprietary technologies, competitive cost structure, and integrated manufacturing facilities to maintain a strong competitive position throughout such cycles.



·Products



ØPolymers

The polymers product line consists of cellulose-based specialty polymers and olefin-based performance products.  Eastman's cellulose-based specialty polymers enhance the aesthetic appeal and improve the performance of industrial and transportation coatings and inks.  Olefin-based products are used as base polymers in hot-melt adhesives, paper laminating, sealants, and pressure sensitive adhesives.  They are also used as elastomer extenders in sealants and waterproofing compounds for wire and cable flooding applications.  The polymers product line also includes chlorinated polyolefins which promote the adherence of paints and coatings to plastic substrates.  Polymers accounted for approximately 20 percent, 20 percent, and 15 percent of the CASPI segment's total sales for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.



ØResins

The resins product line consists of hydrocarbon resins, rosin resins, and resin dispersions.  These products are sold primarily to adhesive formulators and consumer product companies for use as raw materials essential in hot-melt and pressure sensitive adhesives and as binders in nonwoven products such as disposable diapers, feminine products, and pre-saturated wipes.  Eastman offers a broad product portfolio of essential ingredients for the adhesives industry and ranks as the second largest global tackifier supplier.  In addition, Eastman is one of the largest manufacturers of hydrogenated gum rosins used in chewing gum applications.  Eastman resins are also used in a wide range of applications including plastics and rubber modification and inks.  Resins accounted for approximately 35 percent of the CASPI segment's total sales for 2011, 2010, and 2009.



10ØSolvents

The solvents product line includes both specialty coalescents and ketones and commodity esters, glycol ethers, and alcohol solvents.  Coalescents include products such as TexanolTMester alcohol and Eastman OptifilmTMEnhancer 300 and 400, which improve film formation and durability in architectural latex paints.  Ketones are used in high solids low volatile organic compound ("VOC") coatings applications.  Commodity solvents, which consist of esters, glycol ethers, and alcohol solvents, are used in both paints and inks to maintain the formulation in liquid form for ease of application.  Solvents accounted for approximately 45 percent of the CASPI segment's total sales for 2011 and 2010 and 50 percent in 2009.



·Strategy and Innovation



A key element of the CASPI segment's strategy is to leverage proprietary technologies for the continued development of innovative product offerings and to focus growth efforts on expanding industries such as packaging, hygiene, and transportation.  Management believes that the ability to leverage the CASPI segment's research, application development, and production capabilities across multiple markets makes the segment uniquely positioned to meet evolving needs to improve the quality and performance of our customers' products.



The Company is currently developing options intended to further leverage both new and existing technologies for growth by geographical expansion and by movement into adjacent industries such as electronics and tires used in transportation.  For example, in 2011, the CASPI segment expanded its presence in the electronic materials market through the acquisition of Dynaloy and its formulated cleaners business.



The Company's global manufacturing presence is a key element of the CASPI segment's growth strategy.  For example, the segment is well positioned to capitalize on expected high industrial growth in China and other parts of Asia from its facilities in Singapore and near Shanghai, China and joint venture operations in China.  The Company is committed to maintaining reliability of supply of the CASPI segment products to our strategic customers to allow Eastman to be the supplier of choice.  The segment is meeting growing demand for specialty hydrocarbon resins with recent capacity expansions in Middelburg, the Netherlands and the additional debottleneck of its Longview, Texas capacity.



·Customers and Markets



As a result of the variety of end uses for its products, the customer base for the CASPI segment is broad and diverse. This segment has approximately 720 customers around the world, while 80 percent of its sales revenue in 2011 was attributable to approximately 100 customers.  The CASPI segment focuses on establishing long-term relationships with its strategic customers in order to become their preferred supplier and leverage these relationships into sales opportunities in previously underserved markets.  Growth in the U.S., Canadian, and European markets typically coincides with economic growth in general, due to the wide variety of end uses for these applications and their dependence on the economic conditions of the markets for packaged goods, transportation, durable goods, and housing.



The current regulatory environment, particularly in the U.S., Canada, and Europe, provides both market challenges and opportunities for the CASPI segment.  Environmental regulations that impose limits on the emission of VOCs and hazardous air pollutants ("HAPs") continue to impact coatings formulations requiring compliant coatings raw materials.  These regulations are in addition to the consumer market sustainability trend.  The coatings industry is responding by promoting products and technologies designed to enable customers and end users to reduce air emissions of VOCs and HAPs in compliance with applicable regulations.  A variety of Eastman's CASPI segment products are used in these coatings.  Additional products are currently being developed to meet the growing demand for low VOC coatings, including the SolusTMfamily of cellulose ester additives.






·Competition



Competition within the CASPI segment's markets varies widely depending on the specific product or product group.  The Company's major competitors in the CASPI segment's markets include larger companies such as BASF SE ("BASF"), The Dow Chemical Company ("Dow"), and Exxon Mobil Corporation ("Exxon"), which may commit greater financial and other resources than Eastman to products in markets in which the CASPI segment competes.  Additionally, within each CASPI segment product market, the Company competes with other smaller, regionally focused companies that may have advantages based upon location, local market knowledge, manufacturing strength in a specific product, or other similar factors.  However, Eastman does not believe that any of these regional competitors has the breadth of product offerings that Eastman is able to offer its CASPI segment customers.  The Company believes its competitive advantages include its level of vertical integration; breadth of product offerings, service, and technology offerings; low-cost manufacturing position; consistent product quality; security of supply; and process and market knowledge.  The CASPI segment principally competes on breadth of products and through leveraging its strong customer base and long-standing customer relationships to promote substantial recurring business and product development.



FIBERSSEGMENT



·Overview



In the Fibers segment, Eastman manufactures and sells EstronTMacetate tow and EstrobondTMtriacetin plasticizers for use primarily in the manufacture of cigarette filters; EstronTMnatural and ChromspunTMsolution-dyed acetate yarns for use in apparel, home furnishings and industrial fabrics; and cellulose acetate flake and acetyl raw materials for other acetate fiber producers.  Eastman is one of the world's two largest suppliers of acetate tow and has been a market leader in the manufacture and sale of acetate tow since it began production in the early 1950s.  The Company is the world's largest producer of acetate yarn and has been in this business for over 75 years.  The Fibers segment's manufacturing operations are primarily located at the Kingsport, Tennessee site and also include smaller acetate tow production plants in Workington, England and Ulsan, South Korea.  Eastman increased its acetate tow capacity with the expansion of the Workington plant in 2008 and the startup of the Korean facility during 2010, and is further expanding its Asia Pacific capacity with a joint venture manufacturing facility in Hefei, China.  In 2011, the Fibers segment had sales revenue of $1.3 billion, 18 percent of Eastman's total sales.  The Fibers segment remains a strong and stable cash generator for the Company.



The Company's long history and experience in the fibers markets are reflected in the Fibers segment's operating expertise, both within the Company and in support of its customers' processes.  The Fibers segment's knowledge of the industry and of customers' processes allows it to assist its customers in maximizing their processing efficiencies, promoting repeat sales and mutually beneficial, long-term customer relationships.



The Company's fully integrated fiber manufacturing processes from coal-based acetyl raw materials through acetate tow and yarn provide a competitive advantage over companies whose processes are dependent on petrochemicals.  In addition, the Fibers segment employs unique technology that allows it to use a broad range of high-purity wood pulps for which the Company has dependable sources of supply.  Management believes that these factors combine to make Eastman an industry leader in reliability of supply and cost position.  In addition to the cost advantage of being coal-based, the Fibers segment's competitive strengths include a reputation for high-quality products, technical expertise, large scale vertically-integrated processes, reliability of supply, acetate flake supply in excess of internal needs, a reputation for customer service excellence, and a customer base characterized by long-term customer relationships.  The Company intends to continue to capitalize and build on these strengths to improve the strategic position of its Fibers segment.



Contributing to the profitability in the Fibers segment are the limited number of competitors, high industry capacity utilization, and significant barriers to entry.  These barriers include, but are not limited to, high capital costs for integrated manufacturing facilities.






·Products



ØAcetate Tow

Eastman manufacturesacetate tow under the EstronTMtrademark according to a wide variety of customer specifications, primarily for use in the manufacture of cigarette filters.  Acetate tow is the largest sales product of the Fibers segment.  Worldwide demand for acetate tow is expected to increase by one to two percent per year over the next several years.  Demand growth within Asia, mostly China, one of the largest and fastest growing markets, primarily influences this expected global increase.  Acetate tow accounted for approximately 80% of the Fibers segment total sales revenue in 2011, 2010, and 2009.



ØAcetate Yarn

The Company manufactures acetate filament yarn under the EstronTMand ChromspunTMtrademarks in a wide variety of specifications.  EstronTMacetate yarn is available in bright and dull luster and is suitable for subsequent dyeing in the fabric form.  ChromspunTMacetate yarn is solution-dyed in the manufacturing process and is available in more than 100 colors.



ØAcetyl Chemical Products

The Fibers segment's acetyl chemical products are sold primarily to other acetate fiber market producers and include cellulose diacetate flake, acetic acid, and acetic anhydride.  Each is used as a raw material for the production of cellulose acetate fibers.  The Fibers segment also markets acetyl-based triacetin plasticizers under the EstrobondTMtrademark, generally for use by cigarette manufacturers as a bonding agent in cigarette filters.



·Strategy and Innovation



ØGrowth



In the Fibers segment, Eastman is leveraging its strong customer relationships and knowledge of the industry to identify growth options.  These growth options have been enabled primarily by its acetate flake capacity at the Kingsport, Tennessee site.  In 2008, Eastman expanded its Workington, England plant to support customer demand in the region.  In 2010, production began at a new acetate tow facility in Ulsan, South Korea to support customer demand in Asia.  With this new facility Eastman's total global acetate tow capacity is approximately 210,000 metric tons.  In 2011, Eastman began construction of a new 30,000 metric ton acetate tow manufacturing facility in Hefei, China, expected to be operational in mid-2013, in a joint venture with China National Tobacco Corporation.  Acetate flake raw materials will be supplied to the new China acetate tow plant from the Company's Kingsport, Tennessee, manufacturing facility.  The Company continues to pursue other growth opportunities, particularly in the Asia Pacific region.



ØContinue to Capitalize on Fibers Technology Expertise

The Company intends to continue to make use of its capabilities in fibers technology to maintain a strong focus on incremental product and process improvements, with the goals of meeting customers' evolving needs and improving the segment's manufacturing process efficiencies.



ØMaintain Cost-Effective Operations and Consistent Cash Flows and EarningsThe Company intends to continue to operate the Fibers segment in a cost effective manner, capitalizing on its technology, scale and vertical integration, and to make further productivity and efficiency improvements through continued investments in R&D.



ØResearch and Development



The Company's Fibers segment R&D efforts focus on process and product improvements, as well as cost reduction, with the objectives of increasing sales and reducing costs.  The Fibers segment also conducts research to assist acetate tow customers in the effective use of the segment's products and in the customers' product development efforts.






·Customers and Markets

The customer base in the Fibers segment is relatively concentrated, consisting of approximately 150 customers in the tobacco, textile, and acetate fibers industries.  Eastman's Fibers segment customers are located in all regions of the world.  The largest 16 customers within the Fibers segment include multinational as well as regional cigarette producers, fabric manufacturers, and other acetate fiber producers.  These top 16 customers accounted for about 80 percent of the segment's total sales revenue in 2011.  Sales prices for a significant portion of the Fibers segment's products are typically negotiated on an annual basis.  The segment maintains a strong position in acetate tow exports to China.



·Competition



Eastman is the second largest acetate tow manufacturer in the world.  Competitors in the fibers market for acetate tow include Celanese Corporation ("Celanese"), Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd ("Daicel"), Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd. ("Mitsubishi Rayon"), and Solvay S.A. (formerly Rhodia S.A.)



In the segment's acetate yarn business, major competitors include Industrias del Acetato de Celulosa S.A., UAB Korelita, and Mitsubishi Rayon.  Eastman is the world leader in acetate yarn production and the only acetate yarn producer in the U.S. and Canada.  The physical properties of acetate yarn make it desirable for use in textile products such as suit linings, women's apparel, medical tape, drapery, ribbons and other specialty fabrics.  However, over the past 20 years, demand for acetate yarn has been adversely affected by the substitution of lower cost polyester and rayon yarns.  Accordingly, worldwide demand for acetate yarn is expected to continue to decrease as mills continue to substitute these cheaper yarns for acetate yarn.  Management, however, believes that Eastman remains uniquely positioned because of its integrated production of acetate yarn.



As described above under "Fibers Segment – Overview", the principal methods of competition include maintaining the Company's large-scale vertically integrated manufacturing process from coal-based acetyl raw materials, reliability of supply, product quality, and sustaining long-term customer relationships.



PCISEGMENT



·Overview



The PCI segment leverages large scale and vertical integration from the acetyl and olefins streams to manufacture diversified products that are sold externally as well as used internally by other segments of the company.  The PCI segment has leading market positions in many of its core products and believes it is well-positioned in key markets for most of its major products, including both acetyl products and olefin derivatives, due to its competitive cost position and supply reliability versus competitors.  In 2011 the PCI segment had sales revenue of $2.9 billion, 40 percent of the Company's total sales.



Historically the segment's competitive cost position has been primarily due to lower cost raw materials, such as coal which is used in the production of acetyl stream products, and olefins which are used in the production of olefin derivative products.  The Company has three operating cracking units as well as a fourth cracking unit which is currently shutdown.  The Company will continue to evaluate changes in raw materials costs along with olefin derivative volume demand to determine the best use for these assets.  Some of the segment's products are affected by the olefins cycle.  See "Corporate Overview – Manufacturing Streams" earlier in this "Part I – Item 1. Business."  This cyclicality is caused by periods of supply and demand imbalance, either when incremental capacity additions are not offset by corresponding increases in demand or when demand exceeds existing supply.  Demand, in turn, is based on general economic conditions, raw material and energy costs, and other factors beyond the Company's control.  While the segment has taken steps to reduce the impact of the trough of the olefins cycle, future PCI segment results are expected to continue to fluctuate from period to period due to general economic conditions.  Approximately 75 percent of the segment's olefin derivatives are made from propylene.








·Products





The PCI segment also manufactures performance chemicals and complex organic molecules such as plasticizers, diketene derivatives, specialty ketones, and specialty anhydrides for medical, pharmaceutical, fiber, and food and beverage ingredients, which are typically used in specialty market applications.  The acquired Sterling Chemicals idled plasticizer manufacturing unit is being retrofitted to produce non-phthalate plasticizers, with the first of two phases expected to be online in the first half of 2012 and the second phase to be determined at a later date based on demand.  This capacity is expected to be used to serve the growing demand for non-phthalate plasticizers in North America and Europe.  The acquisition of Scandiflex in Brazil extends Eastman's non-phthalate plasticizer offerings into Latin American markets.



·Strategy and Innovation



The PCI segment selectively focuses on continuing to develop and access markets with high-growth potential for the Company's chemicals.  One key market is for flexible plastic products used in sensitive applications such as toys, child care articles, medical packaging and devices, and food contact.  Eastman 168TMplasticizer and other specialty plasticizers provide effective, sustainable alternatives to ortho-phthalate plasticizers traditionally used in these and other applications.  These plasticizers allow manufacturers to meet the challenging requirements of changing government regulations and consumer preferences without sacrificing production efficiency or product performance.  The acquisitions of Scandiflex in 2011 and Genovique Specialties Corporation in 2010 added to the Company's portfolio of and manufacturing capacity for non-phthalate plasticizers that serve high growth markets.  The Company also plans to increase capacity of 2-ethyl hexanol in first half 2012 to support expected growth in the plasticizers, coatings, and fuel additive markets.



To build on and maintain its status as a low cost producer, the PCI segment continuously focuses on cost control, operational efficiency, and capacity utilization to maximize earnings.  Through the PCI segment, the Company maximizes the advantage of its highly integrated and world-scale manufacturing facilities.  For example, the Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing facility allows the PCI segment to produce acetic anhydride and other acetyl derivatives from coal rather than natural gas or other petroleum feedstocks.  At the Longview, Texas manufacturing facility, Eastman's PCI segment uses its proprietary oxo-technology in the world's largest single-site, oxo aldehyde manufacturing facility to produce a wide range of alcohols, esters, and other derivative products utilizing local propane and ethane supplies, as well as purchased propylene.  These integrated facilities, combined with large scale production processes and a continuous focus on additional process improvements, allow the PCI segment to remain cost competitive with, and for some products cost-advantaged over, its competitors.



The Company engages in R&D initiatives in order to develop new PCI products and find additional applications for existing products and to lower its costs.  The Company has licensed technology to produce acetyl products to Saudi International Petrochemical Company in Saudi Arabia and to Chang Chun Petrochemical Company in Taiwan in 2005 and 2007, respectively, and has recognized all revenue from these license agreements.  The Company is currently evaluating licensing opportunities for acetic acid and oxo derivatives on a selective basis.






·Customers and Markets



The PCI segment's products are used in a variety of markets and end uses, including agriculture, building and construction, transportation, beverages, nutrition, pharmaceuticals, coatings, flooring, medical devices, toys, adhesives, sealants, household products, polymers, textiles, and industrials.  Because of its cost position, reliability, and service, the Company has been able to establish and maintain long-term arrangements and relationships with PCI customers.  Product-specific olefin derivative market conditions vary based upon prevailing supply and demand conditions.  An important trend for the PCI segment's business is a tendency toward regionalization of key markets due to increased transportation costs and local supply in developing regions from new capacities.  The PCI segment benefits from this trend primarily in the U.S. and Canada.  Additionally, the PCI segment is engaged in continuous efforts to optimize product and customer mix.  The PCI segment has approximately 1,050 customers worldwide, with about 80 percent of its sales revenue in 2011 attributable to approximately 135 customers.



·Competition



Historically, there have been significant barriers to entry for potential competitors in the PCI segment's major product lines, including acetic acid and acetic anhydride, primarily due to the relevant technology having been held by a small number of companies.  As this technology has become more readily available, competition from multinational chemical manufacturers has intensified.  Eastman competes with these and other producers primarily based on price, as products are generally interchangeable, but also on technology, marketing, and services.  Eastman's major competitors in this segment include large, multinational companies such as BASF, Celanese, Dow, and Exxon.



SPECIALTYPLASTICS SEGMENT



·Overview



In the Specialty Plastics segment, the Company produces and markets specialized copolyesters and cellulosic plastics that possess differentiated performance properties for value-added end uses.  In 2011, the Specialty Plastics segment had sales revenue of $1.2 billion, approximately 16 percent of Eastman's total sales.



Eastman has the unique ability within its Specialty Plastics segment to modify its polymers and plastics to control and customize their final properties, creating numerous opportunities for new application development, including the expertise to develop new materials and new applications starting from the molecular level in the research laboratory to the final designed application.  Recent industry trends in various markets have renewed customers' interest in some of the unique attributes offered by Eastman materials.  Such trends include, but are not limited to, interest in plastics that have superior chemical and mechanical properties to withstand increasing demands in specific applications ranging from household or commercial dishwashing to hospital sterilization, as well as polyvinyl chloride ("PVC")-free and bisphenol A ("BPA")-free plastics.  The addition of the Eastman Tritan™ family of products has significantly expanded the segment's ability to customize copolyesters for new markets and applications.  In addition, the Specialty Plastics segment has a long history of manufacturing excellence with strong process improvement and continuing cost reduction.



·Products



The Specialty Plastics segment consists of two primary product lines: specialty copolyesters and cellulosics.  Eastman estimates that the market growth for copolyesters will continue to be higher than general domestic economic growth due to ongoing specialty copolyester material innovations and displacement opportunities.  Management believes that cellulosic materials will grow at or above the rate of the domestic economy in the long-term driven by demand in legacy ophthalmics applications and growth in the LCD market, as well as increased demand for cellulosics driven by the sustainability profile of these bio-derived materials and their performance as engineered thermoplastics.  For both specialty copolyesters and cellulosic plastics, the Specialty Plastics segment benefits from integration into the Company's polyester and acetyls streams.  The Specialty Plastics segment's specialty copolyesters are currently produced in Kingsport, Tennessee; Columbia, South Carolina; and Kuantan, Malaysia.  The cellulosic products are produced in Kingsport, Tennessee.




ØSpecialty Copolyesters



Eastman's specialty copolyesters accounted for approximately 80 percent of the Specialty Plastics segment's 2011, 2010, and 2009 sales revenue.  Eastman's specialty copolyesters, which generally are based on Eastman's production of CHDM, have historically filled a market position between polycarbonates and acrylics/PVC.  Polycarbonates have offered some superior performance characteristics, while acrylics have been less expensive.  More recently, consumer trends driven by health and environmental concerns for competing materials have opened new opportunities for copolyesters.  Additionally, OEM and brand-owner packaging and container design preferences have opened new applications that leverage the design freedom inherent in the physical properties of copolyesters.  Consequently, the Specialty Plastics segment has continued to develop new applications for its core copolyesters to meet growing demand for more environmentally-friendly and sustainable copolyester products.



The segment has had significant growth in sales of copolyesters for clear handleware applications where Eastman's materials offer a unique merchandising solution.  Eastman's newest copolyester, Tritan™, enables the Company to move to higher value applications by adding high temperature resistance to the other properties of copolyesters, including toughness, chemical resistance, and excellent processability.  Sales of Tritan™ products have consistently increased and Tritan™ products are being introduced into new geographic regions.  By broadening its Embrace™ family of products, Eastman has continued to have growth in sales of shrink packaging.  The family of shrink packaging offerings has made Eastman the leading supplier of resins for full-body shrink labels.



ØCellulosic Plastics



Cellulosics and cellulosic plastics accounted for approximately 20 percent of the Specialty Plastics segment's 2011, 2010, and 2009 sales revenue.  Through the development of new formulations and applications, Eastman continues to solidify its position as a key supplier of resins in certain applications for LCDs.  Eastman's proprietary family of cellulosic polymers, the Visualize™ cellulosics line of products, are known for their superior optical properties and are the preferred choice for certain film structures in LCD polarizers.  Eastman cellulosic plastics, sold under the Tenite™ brand, are known for their excellent balance of properties, including toughness, hardness, strength, surface gloss, clarity, chemical resistance, and warmth to the touch.



·Strategy and Innovation



Through Eastman's advantaged asset position and applications development innovation efforts, the segment has increased specialty copolyesters sales volume to twice U.S. gross domestic product growth over the past five years.  During 2011, shrink packaging products sales volume increased more than U.S. gross domestic product growth driven by new applications for Specialty Plastics products that now include the Embrace™ family of products.  The trend of influencing the purchasing decision with product design has also benefited Eastman's clear handleware solutions for large containers.  Additionally, increased demand for BPA-free products has created new opportunities for various applications of legacy copolyesters.



The addition of Tritan™ copolyester to Eastman's Specialty Plastics product offering has created new opportunities for applications previously produced with materials such as polycarbonate or polysulfone.  During 2011, Eastman continued to solidify the position of Tritan™ copolyester in food contact applications, such as water bottles and other consumer houseware applications through OEMs and brand owners.  During 2011, Eastman's newly completed Tritan™ copolyester polymer manufacturing line operated at capacity, and the high demand for Tritan™ copolyester was met by also using the original Tritan™ copolyester demonstration manufacturing facility.  Given the anticipated successful market acceptance of Tritan™ copolyester and the projected rapid demand growth, the monomer facility was designed to be capable of supplying a second Tritan™ copolyester manufacturing line of 30,000 metric tons per year.  Based on the 2010 demand, the Company decided to expand to a second full scale Tritan™ copolyester manufacturing line which is expected to be operational in early 2012.



The Company is expanding its capacity for CHDM, a monomer used in the manufacture of copolyesters including the new TritanTMcopolyester, by approximately 25 percent.  The capacity will be operational in two phases with the first operational in fourth quarter 2011 and the second expected to be operational in first quarter 2012.  The expansion also supports continued growth in legacy copolyester applications, both in developed and developing regions.  The Company is also expanding its cellulose triacetatecapacity by 70 percent, with the new capacity expected to be operational in first quarter 2012.






The Specialty Plastics segment is focused on providing consistent profit margins and the Company continues to leverage the advantages of being an integrated polyester manufacturer and expects to continue to pursue opportunities within the integrated polyester stream.  The Company is utilizing the manufacturing assets which were formerly used in the divested polyethylene terephthalate ("PET") business to reduce Specialty Plastics copolyester costs and expand production with larger scale assets.



·Customers and Markets



The customer base in the Specialty Plastics segment is broad and diverse, consisting of approximately 670 customers worldwide in a variety of industries.  Approximately 80 percent of the Specialty Plastics segment's 2011 sales revenue was attributable to approximately 70 customers.  The Specialty Plastics segment seeks to develop mutually beneficial relationships with its customers throughout various stages of product life cycles.  By doing so, it is better able to understand its customers' needs as those customers develop new products and more effectively bring new solutions to market.



Specialty copolyesters are sold into a wide range of markets and applications including specialty packaging (medical and electronic component trays, shrink label films, general purpose packaging, and multilayer films); in-store fixtures and displays (point of purchase displays including indoor sign and store fixtures); consumer and durable goods (appliances, housewares, toys, and sporting goods); medical goods (disposable medical devices, health care equipment and instruments, and pharmaceutical packaging); and personal care and consumer packaging (food and beverage packaging and consumer packaging).  Cellulosic plastics are sold into markets and applications such as consumer and durable goods (photographic film, tool handles, sunglass frames, and tapes/labels) and LCD.  The Tritan™ family of products is being sold into a range of markets including, but not limited to, consumer housewares, bulk water, infant care, small appliances and other consumer durables segments.  Additional applications and markets are currently under development.



·Competition



The segment principally competes by leveraging price and product performance in specific applications.  Customer product selection is typically determined on an application-by-application basis and often by OEMs rather than by resin converters.  New market opportunities result from substitution of plastic for other materials and displacement of other plastic resins in existing applications.  While historically the Specialty Plastics segment's ability to compete was very closely tied to supply-demand balances of competing plastics, the addition of Tritan™ copolyester, a material based on Eastman proprietary technology, has opened new market opportunities in which Eastman is leveraging the unique combination of properties of the new family of products.  In certain cases, the Company believes that Tritan™ copolyester offers a unique solution by bringing properties similar to polycarbonate without containing any BPA.  In food applications, the fact that Eastman copolyesters are both BPA and PVC-free makes them an attractive alternative to materials such as polycarbonate and other plastics.  In addition, the combination of excellent clarity and superior processability allows for the production of unique and attractive packaging that allows brand owners to differentiate their products in retail markets.  Examples of such applications include shrink film made from Eastman's Embrace™ copolyester family of products and clear handleware containers produced from Eastman copolyesters.



Management believes that the Company's Specialty Plastics products maintain competitive advantages throughout the product life cycle.  At product introduction, the segment's breadth of offerings combined with its R&D capabilities and customer service orientation enable it to quickly bring a wide variety of products to market.  As products enter the growth phase of the life cycle, the Specialty Plastics segment is able to continue to leverage its product breadth by generating sales revenue from multiple sources, as well as retaining customers from long-term relationships.  As products become more price sensitive, the Specialty Plastics segment can take advantage of Eastman's scale of operations, including conversion of rationalized PET assets and vertical integration, to maintain a superior product conversion cost position.



In recent years, the markets for Specialty Plastics products have had volatile raw material costs.  While raw material cost volatility is expected to continue into the future, Eastman believes that it maintains a competitive advantage from diversification of its raw materials base by using both coal for cellulosics and petrochemical-based feedstocks for copolyesters.  The segment continues to be exposed to volatility in cost of certain raw materials used in the manufacture of copolyesters, especially paraxylene and ethylene glycol.






Eastman's primary competitors for copolyester products include Bayer AG, Styron, Evonvik Industries, Saudi Basic Industries Corporation, Mitsubishi Chemicals, and SK Chemical Industries.  Competition for cellulosic plastics is primarily from other producers of cellulose ester polymers such as Sichuan Push Acetati Company Limited and Daicel.



REGIONALBUSINESS OVERVIEW



Eastman operates as a global business with approximately 45 percent of its sales and 55 percent of its operating earnings, excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges and gains, generated from outside the United States and Canada region in 2011.  As the Company focuses on growth in emerging markets, the percentage of sales and earnings from outside the United States and Canada are expected to increase.  While manufacturing is centered in the U.S., the Company is able to transport products globally to meet demand.  While all regions are affected by the uncertainty in the global economy, the degree of the impact on the various regions is dependent on the mix of the Company's segments and products in each region.  In 2011, the mix of regional revenue from the segments was as follows:



CASPIFibersPCISpecialty PlasticsTotalUnited States and Canada25 %5 %55 %15 %100 %Asia Pacific20 %35 %25 %20 %100 %Europe, Middle East, and Africa35 %25 %20 %20 %100 %Latin America40 %10 %40 %10 %100 %



The United States and Canada region contains the highest concentration of the Company's long-lived assets with approximately 85 percent located in the United States.  Management believes that the location of these manufacturing facilities provides the Company with an advantaged cost position for the Company's domestic customers, particularly for commodity and bulk products.  The PCI segment accounts for approximately half of the region's revenue, as the segment is well-positioned in this region's market for most of its major products, including acetic acid and acetic anhydride, although the region is subject to increased variability in revenues due to the effect of raw material and energy costs on this segment's selling prices.



One-third of revenue in the Asia Pacific region is from acetate tow products in the Fibers segment.  The region includes many emerging growth markets served by Eastman products, including specialty products in the CASPI segment and acetate tow in the Fibers segment, particularly in China.  The Company is responding to this growth by strengthening its position through joint ventures and acquisitions such as the new 30,000 metric ton acetate tow manufacturing facility being constructed in Hefei, China, expected to be operational in mid-2013 in a joint venture with China National Tobacco Corporation, and the acquisition of an acetate tow manufacturing facility in Korea which began production in 2010.



The Europe, Middle East, and Africa region has lower revenue from commodity product lines than any other region and therefore is less affected by general economic conditions and prices are less dependent on raw material costs compared to other regions.



The Latin America region has significant sales from commodity product lines, particularly in the PCI and CASPI segments, and is therefore subject to increased volatility in sales volume and selling prices as a result of general economic conditions and other factors outside of the Company’s control.






CORPORATEINITIATIVES



In addition to its business segments, the Company manages certain costs and initiatives at the corporate level, including certain R&D costs not allocated to any one operating segment.  The Company uses a stage-gating process, which is a disciplined decision making framework for evaluating targeted opportunities, with a number of projects at various stages of development.  As projects meet milestones, additional investment is committed to those projects.   The Company continues to explore and invest in R&D initiatives that are aligned with macro trends in sustainability, consumerism, and energy efficiency through high performance materials, advanced cellulosics, environmentally-friendly chemistry, and process improvements, including Eastman™ microfibers technology which leverages the Company's polymers and applications technology expertise in high purity air filtration, liquid filtration, and energy storage media.  In addition, the Company in 2011 acquired TetraVitae Bioscience, Inc., a developer of renewable chemicals, including bio-based butanol and acetone.



For decades, Eastman has been known as a leader in acetic anhydride and acetylated products based on cellulose and wood pulp.  In March 2011, Eastman announced the development of breakthrough process technology to economically enable high quality acetylation of wood.  Eastman's acetylation process permanently changes the molecular structure of wood, resulting in real wood with long-lasting performance.  Acetylated wood, branded as Perennial WoodTM, can be used in virtually any wood application, with opportunities spanning an addressable market of over $2 billion.  In second half 2011, Eastman completed construction of its demonstration manufacturing facility in Kingsport, Tennessee, and introduced its Perennial Wood™ product line in first quarter 2012.  Subject to acceptable market response, the Company plans to continue investment in acetylated wood manufacturing.  Expected revenues at maturity are approximately $500 million with a revenue to capital cost ratio approaching two to one.



During 2011, Eastman has also continued the development of its Cerfis™ technology for the building and construction industry.  The first application of the technology, a molding trim extruded with a copolyester, underwent a test market in retail home improvement stores in a limited metropolitan area.  Based on the results of the test market, Eastman anticipates national marketing by the end of 2012.



DISCONTINUEDOPERATIONS



The Company completed the sale of the PET business, related assets at the Columbia, South Carolina site, and technology of its Performance Polymers segment on January 31, 2011 for $615 million and recognized a gain of approximately $30 million, net of tax.  The PET business, assets, and technology sold were substantially all of the Performance Polymers segment.  Performance Polymers segment operating results are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented and are therefore not included in results from continuing operations under  accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  Corporate costs which were allocated to the Performance Polymers segment have been reallocated to the remaining segments in the Company's financial statements.  For further information, seeNote 3, "Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale",to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.



EASTMANCHEMICAL COMPANY GENERAL INFORMATION



Sales, Marketing, and Distribution



The Company markets and sells products primarily through a global marketing and sales organization which has a presence in the United States and in 28 other countries selling into approximately 100 countries around the world.  Eastman has a marketing and sales strategy targeting industries and applications where Eastman products and services provide differentiated value.  Market, customer, application, and technical expertise are critical capabilities.  Through a highly skilled and specialized sales force that is capable of providing customized business solutions for each of its four operating segments, Eastman is able to establish long-term customer relationships and strives to become the preferred supplier of specialty chemicals, specialty plastics, and fibers worldwide.



The Company's products are also marketed through indirect channels, which include distributors and contract representatives.  Non-U.S. sales tend to be made more frequently through distributors and contract representatives than U.S. sales.  The combination of direct and indirect sales channels, including sales online through its Customer Center website, allows Eastman to reliably serve customers throughout the world.






The Company's products are shipped to customers directly from Eastman's manufacturing plants and from distribution centers worldwide.



Sources and Availability of Raw Material and Energy



Eastman purchases a substantial portion, estimated to be approximately 75 percent, of its key raw materials and energy through long-term contracts, generally of three to five years in initial duration with renewal or cancellation options for each party.  Most of these agreements do not require the Company to purchase materials or energy if its operations are reduced or idle.  The cost of raw materials and energy is generally based on market price at the time of purchase, and Eastman uses derivative financial instruments, valued at quoted market prices, to mitigate the impact of short-term market price fluctuations.  Key raw materials include propane, paraxylene, propylene, cellulose, natural gas, coal, ethane, and a wide variety of precursors for specialty organic chemicals.  Key purchased energy sources include natural gas, steam, coal, and electricity.  The Company has multiple suppliers for most key raw materials and energy and uses quality management principles, such as the establishment of long-term relationships with suppliers and on-going performance assessment and benchmarking, as part of its supplier selection process.  When appropriate, the Company purchases raw materials from a single source supplier to maximize quality and cost improvements, and has developed contingency plans designed to minimize the impact of any supply disruptions from single source suppliers.



While temporary shortages of raw materials and energy may occasionally occur, these items are generally sufficiently available to cover current and projected requirements.  However, their continuous availability and cost are subject to unscheduled plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, or due to domestic or world market and political conditions, changes in government regulation, natural disasters, war or other outbreak of hostilities or terrorism or other political factors, or breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure.  Eastman's operations or products have been in the past, and may be in the future at times adversely affected by these factors.  The Company's raw material and energy costs as a percent of total cost of operations were approximately 65 percent in 2011 and 60 percent in 2010 and 2009.



The following chart shows the Company's key purchased raw materials by segment.



SEGMENTKEY RAW MATERIALSCASPIPropane, propylene, piperline, C9 resin oil, rosin, acetone, pygas, styrene, ethaneFibersHigh sulfur coal, wood pulp, methanolPCIPropane, propylene, paraxylene, ethane, tolueneSpecialty PlasticsEthylene glycol, paraxylene, cellulose



Capital Expenditures



Capital expenditures were $457 million, $243 million, and $310 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  Capital expenditures in 2011 were primarily for organic growth initiatives, particularly in the Specialty Plastics, CASPI, and PCI segments.  The lower expenditures in 2010 were primarily due to the deferral of discretionary spending in response to the global recession.  The Company expects that 2012 capital spending will focus on organic growth initiatives and maintenance.



Employees



Eastman employs approximately 10,000 men and women worldwide.  Approximately four percent of the total worldwide labor force is represented by unions, mostly outside the United States.






Customers



Eastman has an extensive customer base and, while it is not dependent on any one customer, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect the Company until such business is replaced.  The top 100 customers accounted for approximately 70 percent of the Company's 2011 sales revenue.



Intellectual Property and Trademarks



While the Company's intellectual property portfolio is an important Company asset which it expands and vigorously protects globally through a combination of patents that expire at various times, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets, neither its business as a whole nor any particular segment is materially dependent upon any one particular patent, trademark, copyright, or trade secret.  As a producer of a broad and diverse portfolio of both specialty and commodity chemicals, plastics, and fibers, Eastman owns over 600 active United States patents and more than 1,050 active foreign patents, expiring at various times over several years, and also owns over 2,550 active worldwide trademark applications and registrations.  The Company's intellectual property relates to a wide variety of products and processes.  Eastman continues to actively protect its intellectual property.As the laws of many countries do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States, Eastman cannot ensure that it will be able to adequately protect its intellectual property assets outside the United States.



The Company pursues opportunities to license proprietary technology to third parties in areas where it has determined competitive impact to its businesses will be minimal.These arrangements typically are structured to require payments at significant project milestones such as signing, completion of design, and start-up.  To date, efforts have been focused on acetyls technology in the PCI segment.  The Company also is actively pursuing licensing opportunities for oxo derivatives in the PCI segment.



Research and Development



For 2011, 2010, and 2009, Eastman's R&D expenses totaled $158 million, $152 million, and $124 million, respectively.



Environmental



Eastman is subject to significant and complex laws, regulations, and legal requirements relating to the use, storage, handling, generation, transportation, emission, discharge, disposal, and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes in all of the countries in which it does business.  These health, safety, and environmental considerations are a priority in the Company's planning for all existing and new products and processes.  The Health, Safety, Environmental and Security Committee of Eastman's Board of Directors oversees the Company's policies and practices concerning health, safety, and the environment and its processes for complying with related laws and regulations, and monitors related matters.



The Company's policy is to operate its plants and facilities in a manner that protects the environment and the health and safety of its employees and the public.  The Company intends to continue to make expenditures for environmental protection and improvements in a timely manner consistent with its policies and with the technology available.  In some cases, applicable environmental regulations such as those adopted under the U.S. Clean Air Act and Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and related actions of regulatory agencies, determine the timing and amount of environmental costs incurred by the Company.  Likewise, when finalized, potential legislation related to greenhouse gas emissions, energy policy, and associated implementing regulations could impact the timing and amount of environmental costs incurred by the Company.



The Company accrues environmental costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  In some instances, the amount cannot be reasonably estimated due to insufficient information, particularly as to the nature and timing of future expenditures.  In these cases, the liability is monitored until such time that sufficient data exists.  With respect to a contaminated site, the amount accrued reflects the Company's assumptions about remedial requirements at the site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties.  Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations, and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs.








Other matters concerning health, safety, and the environment are discussed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II Item 7 and in Notes 1, "Significant Accounting Policies", 15, "Environmental Matters", and 24, "Reserve Rollfowards" to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.



Backlog



On January 1, 2012 and 2011, Eastman's backlog of firm sales orders represented less than 10 percent of the Company's total consolidated revenue for the previous year.  These orders are primarily short-term and all orders are expected to be filled in the following year.  The Company manages its inventory levels to control the backlog of products depending on customers' needs.  In areas where the Company is the single source of supply, or competitive forces or customers' needs dictate, the Company may carry additional inventory to meet customer requirements.



Financial Information About Geographic Areas



For sales revenue and long-lived assets by geographic areas, seeNote 22, "Segment Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.  For information about regional sales and earnings, see "Regional Business Overview" above in this "Business" section of this Annual Report.



Available Information – SEC Filings



The Company makes available free of charge, through the "Investors – SEC Information" section of its Internet website (www.eastman.com), its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").






