ITEM1.  BUSINESS



CORPORATE OVERVIEW



Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company") is a global chemical company which manufactures and sells a broad portfolio of chemicals, plastics, and fibers.  Eastman began business in 1920 for the purpose of producing chemicals for Eastman Kodak Company's photographic business and became a public company, incorporated in Delaware, as of December 31, 1993.  Eastman has sixteen manufacturing sites in nine countries that supply chemicals, plastics, and fibers products to customers throughout the world.  The Company's headquarters and largest manufacturing site are located in Kingsport, Tennessee.



In 2010, the Company had sales revenue of $5.8 billion, operating earnings of $862 million, and earnings from continuing operations of $425 million.  Earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were $5.75 in 2010.  Included in 2010 operating earnings were asset impairments and restructuring charges of $29 million.  Included in 2010 earnings from continuing operations were early debt extinguishment costs of $115 million.



The Company completed the sale of the polyethylene terephthalate ("PET") business, related assets at the Columbia, South Carolina site, and technology of its Performance Polymers segment on January 31, 2011.The PET business,assets, and technology sold were substantially all of the Performance Polymers segment.  Performance Polymers segment operating results are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented and are therefore notincluded in results from continuing operations under accounting principles generally accepted ("GAAP") in the United States.



The Company's products and operations are managed and reported in four operating segments: the Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks ("CASPI") segment, the Fibers segment, the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates ("PCI") segment, and the Specialty Plastics segment.  The Company manages certain costs and initiatives at the corporate level, including certain research and development ("R&D") costs not allocated to the operating segments.  For additional information concerning the Company's operating segments, seeNote 23 "Segment Information" to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Annual Report").



BusinessStrategy



Eastman's objective is to be an outperforming chemical company through solid financial results from its core businesses and its strategies for profitable growth.  The Company's core businesses currently sell differentiated products into diverse markets and geographic regions.  Management believes that the Company can increase the revenues from its core businesses with increasing profitability through a balance of new applications for existing products, development of new products, and sales growth in adjacent markets and emerging economies.  These revenue and earnings increases are expected to result from organic initiatives as well as joint ventures and acquisitions.



The Company is focusing on a variety of organic growth initiatives.  These growth initiatives are driven by strong demand from the Company's customers and are in attractive industries or product markets in which Eastman has a competitive advantage.  These organic growth initiatives include:



·In the Specialty Plastics segment, the monomer manufacturing facility and the first Eastman TritanTMcopolyester polymer manufacturing facility in Kingsport, Tennessee commenced production in first quarter 2010.  TheCompanyis adding another 30,000 metric tons of resin capacity for TritanTM, which is expected to be operational in early 2012.

·In the Specialty Plastics segment, the Company is expanding its capacity for cyclohexane dimethanol ("CHDM"), a monomer used in the manufacture of copolyester, and expects the capacity to be operational in two phases in mid-2011 and in 2012.

·In the Specialty Plastics segment, the Company is expanding its cellulose triacetatecapacity, with the new capacity expected to be operational in first quarter 2012.








·In the CASPI segment, the Company is expanding capacity for its specialty hydrocarbon resins through an additional expansion of the Company's hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins manufacturing capacity in Middelburg, the Netherlands which is expected to be completed in the second half of 2011, an additional debottleneck of the hydrogenated  hydrocarbon facility in Longview, Texas, which is expected to be operational in the first half of 2011, and an expansion of the pure monomer and hydrogenated resins production capacity in Jefferson, Pennsylvania, which is expected to be operational in 2012.

·In the PCI segment, the Company plans to increase capacity of 2-ethyl hexanol in 2012 to support expected growth in the plasticizers, coatings, and fuel additive markets.

·The Company continues to explore and invest in R&D initiatives at a corporate level that are aligned with macro trends in sustainability, consumerism, and energy efficiency through high performance materials, advanced cellulosics, and environmentally-friendly chemistry, including an initiative in the building and construction market.



The Company benefits from advantaged feedstocks and proprietary technologies, and is focusing on sustainability as a competitive strength for growth.  Eastman has developed new products and technologies that enable customers' development and sales of sustainable products, and has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption.



The combination of stable profits from the solid core businesses and profitable revenue growth is expected to result in continued earnings growth.  This allows the Company to continue to evaluate inorganic growth, such as joint ventures and acquisitions, to enhance the Company's product portfolios and to extend into emerging markets.



ManufacturingStreams



Integral to Eastman's corporate strategy for growth is leveraging its heritage of expertise and innovation in acetyl, olefins, and polyester chemistries in key markets, including packaging, tobacco, building and construction, and consumables.  For each of these chemistries, Eastman has developed a combination of assets and technologies that are operated within three manufacturing "streams".



·Intheacetyl stream, the Company begins with high sulfur coal which is then gasified in its coal gasification facility.  The resulting synthesis gas is converted into a number of chemicals including methanol, methyl acetate, acetic acid, and acetic anhydride.  These chemicals are used in manufacturing products throughout the Company including acetate tow, acetate yarn, and cellulose esters.  The Company's ability to use coal is a competitive advantage in both raw materials and energy.  The Company continues to evaluate opportunities to further leverage its gasification expertise to produce additional cost advantaged chemicals from petroleum coke or coal instead of natural gas or petroleum.

·








·In the polyester stream, the Company begins with purchased paraxylene and produces purified terephthalic acid ("PTA") for polyesters and dimethyl terephthalate ("DMT") for copolyesters.  PTA or DMT is then reacted with ethylene glycol, which the Company both makes and purchases, along with other raw materials (some of which the Company makes and are proprietary) to produce polyesters.  The Company believes that this backward integration of polyester manufacturing is a competitive advantage, giving Eastman a low cost position, as well as surety of intermediate supply.  In addition, Eastman can add specialty monomers to copolyesters to provide clear, tough, chemically resistant product characteristics.  As a result, the Company's copolyesters can effectively compete with materials such as polycarbonate and acrylic
.



The following chart shows the Company's sites at which its manufacturing streams are primarily employed.



SITEACETYLSTREAMPOLYESTERSTREAMOLEFINSSTREAMKingsport, TennesseeXXXLongview, TexasXXColumbia, South Carolina(1)XKuantan, MalaysiaXSingaporeXWorkington, United KingdomXUlsan, South KoreaX



(1)Retaineda portion of the manufacturing facility related to the Specialty Plastics segment subsequent to the sale of the Company's PET business and related assets.



The following chart shows significant Eastman products, markets, and end uses by segment and manufacturing stream.



SEGMENTACETYL STREAMPOLYESTER STREAMOLEFINS STREAMKEY PRODUCTS, MARKETS, ANDEND USESCASPIXXPaints and coatings for architectural, transportation, industrial, and original equipment manufacturing ("OEM"),  adhesives ingredients for tapes, labels, personal care products and building and construction uses and inks for packagingFibersXAcetate fibers for filter products and textilesPCIXXXIntermediate chemicals for agriculture, transportation, beverages, nutrition, pharmaceuticals, coatings, medical devices, toys, adhesives, household products, polymers, textiles, consumer and industrial products, and health and wellness usesSpecialty PlasticsXXXCopolyesters and cellulosics for appliances, store fixtures and displays, building and construction, electronic packaging, medical devices and packaging, graphic arts, general purpose packaging, personal care and cosmetics, food and beverage packaging, performance films, tape and labels, fibers/nonwovens, photographic and optical films, and liquid crystal displays ("LCD")




In addition to stream integration, the Company also derives value from Eastman's cellulosics.  These are natural polymers, sourced from managed forests, which when combined with the acetyl and olefin streams, provide differentiated product lines and an advantaged raw material position for Eastman.



The Company continues to leverage its heritage of expertise and innovation in acetyl, polyester, and olefins chemistries and technologies, as well as its use of cellulosics, to meet demand and create new uses and opportunities for the Company's products in key markets.  Through integration and optimization across these streams, the Company is able to create unique and differentiated products that have a performance advantage over competitive materials.



Cyclicalityand Seasonality



The commodity olefins and olefin derivatives product lines in the PCI segment and the commodity solvent product lines in the CASPI segment are impacted by the cyclicality of key products and markets, while the other segments are more sensitive to global economic conditions.  Supply and demand dynamics determine profitability at different stages of cycles and global economic conditions affect the length of each cycle.  Despite sensitivity to global economic conditions, many of the products in the Fibers and CASPI segments provide a stable foundation of earnings.The Company's earnings are typically greater in the second and third quarters and cash flows from operations are greatest in fourth quarter due to seasonality.  Demand for CASPI segment products is typically stronger in the second and third quarters due to the increased use of coatings products in the building and construction industries, while demand is typically weaker during the winter months because of seasonal construction downturns.  The PCI segment typically has weaker fourth quarter financial results, due in part to a seasonal downturn in demand for products used in certain building and construction and agricultural markets.

FinancialStrategy



In addition to managing its core business operations and growth initiatives, the Company remains committed to maintaining a strong financial position with financial flexibility and consistently solid cash flows.  The Company employs a disciplined process for capital allocation and deployment of cash.  The Company pursues a variety of organic growth opportunities and attractive joint ventures and acquisitions.  The Company also returns cash to stockholders through dividends and from time to time by share repurchases.  The Company also opportunistically increases, decreases, and restructures its debt based upon public and private debt market conditions.



BUSINESSSEGMENTS



The Company's products and operations are managed and reported in four operating segments: the CASPI segment, the Fibers segment, the PCI segment, and the Specialty Plastics segment.



CASPISEGMENT



·Overview



In the CASPI segment, the Company manufactures resins, specialty polymers, and solvents which are integral to the production of paints and coatings, inks, adhesives, and other formulated products.  Growth in these markets in the U.S., Canada, and Europe typically approximates general economic growth due to the wide variety of end uses for these applications.  Typically, growth in these markets in Asia, Eastern Europe, and Latin America continues to be higher than worldwide economic growth, driven by regional growth in these emerging economies.  The CASPI segment focuses on producing intermediate chemicals rather than finished products and developing long-term, strategic relationships to achieve preferred supplier status with its customers.  In 2010, the CASPI segment had sales revenue of $1.6 billio
n, 27 percent of Eastman's total sales.






The profitability of the CASPI segment is sensitive to the global economy, market trends, broader chemical cycles, particularly the olefins cycle, and foreign currency exchange rates.  The CASPI segment's specialty products, which include cellulose-based specialty polymers, coalescents, and selected hydrocarbon resins, are less sensitive to the olefins cycle due to their functional performance attributes.  The segment’s commodity products, which include commodity solvents and base resins, are more impacted by the olefins cycle as discussed under "Manufacturing Streams."  The Company seeks to leverage its proprietary technologies, competitive cost structure, and integrated manufacturing facilities to maintain a strong competitive position throughout such cycles.



·Products



ØPolymersThe polymers product line consists of cellulose-based specialty polymers and olefin-based performance products.  Eastman's cellulose-based specialty polymers enhance the aesthetic appeal and improve the performance of industrial and transportation coatings and inks.  Olefin-based products are used as base polymers in hot-melt adhesives, paper laminating, sealants, and pressure sensitive adhesives.  They are also used as elastomer extenders in sealants and waterproofing compounds for wire and cable flooding applications.  The polymers product line also includes chlorinated polyolefins which promote the adherence of paints and coatings to plastic substrates.  Polymers accounted for approximately 20 percent of the CASPI segment's total sales for 2010.



ØResinsThe resins product line consists of hydrocarbon resins, rosin resins, and resin dispersions.  These products are sold primarily to adhesive formulators and consumer product companies for use as raw materials essential in hot-melt and pressure sensitive adhesives and as binders in nonwoven products such as disposable diapers, feminine products, and pre-saturated wipes.  Eastman offers a broad product portfolio of essential ingredients for the adhesives industry, and ranks as the second largest global tackifier supplier.  In addition, Eastman is one of the largest manufacturers of hydrogenated gum rosins used in chewing gum applications.  Eastman resins are also used in a wide range of applications including plastics and rubber modification and inks.  Resins accounted for approximately 35 percent of the CASPI segment's total sales for 2010.



ØSolventsThe solvents product line includes both specialty coalescents and ketones and commodity esters, glycol ethers, and alcohol solvents.  Coalescents include products such as TexanolTMester alcohol and Eastman OptifilmTMEnhancer 300 and 400, which improve film formation and durability in architectural latex paints.  Ketones are used in high solids low volatile organic compound ("VOC") coatings applications.  Commodity solvents, which consist of esters, glycol ethers, and alcohol solvents, are used in both paints and inks to maintain the formulation in liquid form for ease of application.  Solvents accounted for approximately 45 percent of the CASPI segment's total sales for 2010.



·Strategy and Innovation



A key element of the CASPI segment's growth strategy is the continued development of innovative product offerings, building on proprietary technologies in high-growth markets and regions to meet customers' evolving needs and improve the quality and performance of customers' end products.  Management believes that its ability to leverage the CASPI segment's broad product line and Eastman's R&D capabilities make the segment uniquely capable of offering a broad array of solutions for new and emerging markets.



The Company intends to continue to leverage its resources to strengthen the CASPI segment's product innovation and product enhancement pipeline by meeting market needs and the expanded use of proprietary products and technologies.  Although the CASPI segment's sales and application development are often specialized by end-use markets, developments in technology can often be successfully shared across multiple end-uses and markets.






The Company's global manufacturing presence is a key element of the CASPI segment's growth strategy.  For example, the segment is well positioned to capitalize on expected high industrial growth in China and other parts of Asia from its facilities in Singapore and near Shanghai and joint venture operations in China.  The Company is committed to maintaining reliability of supply of the CASPI segment products to our strategic customers to allow Eastman to be the supplier of choice.  The segment is meeting growing demand for specialty hydrocarbon resins with an additional 20 percent expansion of hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins manufacturing capacity in Middelburg, the Netherlands which is expected to be completed in the second half of 2011; an additional 10 percent debottleneck of the hydrogenated  hyd
rocarbon facility in Longview, Texas, which is expected to be operational in the first half of 2011; and a 40 percent expansion of the pure monomer / hydrogenated resins capacity in Jefferson, Pennsylvania, which is expected to be operational in 2012.



·Customers and Markets



As a result of the variety of end uses for its products, the customer base for the CASPI segment is broad and diverse. This segment has approximately 770 customers around the world, while 80 percent of its sales revenue in 2010 was attributable to approximately 90 customers.  The CASPI segment focuses on establishing long-term, customer service-oriented relationships with its strategic customers in order to become their preferred supplier and to leverage these relationships to pursue sales opportunities in previously underserved markets and to expand the scope of its value-added services.  Growth in the U.S., Canadian, and European markets typically coincides with economic growth in general, due to the wide variety of end uses for these applications and their dependence on the economic conditions of the markets for pac
kaged goods, transportation, durable goods, and housing.



The current regulatory environment, particularly in the U.S., Canada, and Europe, provides both market challenges and opportunities for the CASPI segment.  Environmental regulations that impose limits on the emission of VOCs and hazardous air pollutants ("HAPs") continue to impact coatings formulations requiring compliant coatings raw materials.  These regulations are in addition to the consumer market trend toward sustainability.  The coatings industry is responding by promoting products and technologies designed to enable customers and end users to reduce air emissions of VOCs and HAPs in compliance with applicable regulations.  A variety of Eastman's CASPI segment products are used in these coatings.  Additional products are currently being developed to meet the growing demand for low VOC co
atings, including the recently introduced SolusTMfamily of products.



·Competition



Competition within the CASPI segment's markets varies widely depending on the specific product or product group.  The Company's major competitors in the CASPI segment's markets include larger companies such as BASF SE ("BASF"), The Dow Chemical Company ("Dow"), and Exxon Mobil Corporation, which may commit greater financial and other resources to products in markets in which the CASPI segment competes than Eastman.  Additionally, within each CASPI segment product market, the Company competes with other smaller, regionally focused companies that may have advantages based upon location, local market knowledge, manufacturing strength in a specific product, or other similar factors.  However, Eastman does not believe that any of its competitors has the breadth of product offerings that Eastman is able to offer it
s CASPI segment customers.  The Company believes its competitive advantages include its level of vertical integration; breadth of product offerings, service, and technology offerings; low-cost manufacturing position; consistent product quality; security of supply; and process and market knowledge.  The CASPI segment principally competes on breadth of products and through leveraging its strong customer base and long-standing customer relationships to promote substantial recurring business and product development.








FIBERSSEGMENT



·Overview

In the Fibers segment, Eastman manufactures and sells EstronTMacetate tow and EstrobondTMtriacetin plasticizers for use primarily in the manufacture of cigarette filters; EstronTMnatural and ChromspunTMsolution-dyed acetate yarns for use in apparel, home furnishings and industrial fabrics; and cellulose acetate flake and acetyl raw materials for other acetate fiber producers.  Eastman is one of the world's two largest suppliers of acetate tow and has been a market leader in the manufacture and sale of acetate tow since it began production in the ea
rly 1950s.  The Company is the world's largest producer of acetate yarn and has been in this business for over 75 years.  The Fibers segment's manufacturing operations are primarily located at the Kingsport, Tennessee site, and also include smaller acetate tow production plants in Workington, England and Ulsan, South Korea.  Eastman has recently increased its acetate tow capacity with the expansion of the Workington plant in 2008 and the start up of the Korean facility during 2010.  In 2010, the Fibers segment had sales revenue of $1.1 billion, 19 percent of Eastman's total sales.  The Fibers segment remains a strong and stable cash generator for the Company.



The Company's long history and experience in the fibers markets are reflected in the Fibers segment's operating expertise, both within the Company and in support of its customers' processes.  The Fibers segment's knowledge of the industry and of customers' processes allows it to assist its customers in maximizing their processing efficiencies, promoting repeat sales and mutually beneficial, long-term customer relationships.



The Company's fully integrated fiber manufacturing processes from coal-based acetyl raw materials through acetate tow and yarn provide a competitive advantage over companies whose processes are dependent on petrochemicals.  In addition, the Fibers segment employs unique technology that allows it to use a broad range of high-purity wood pulps for which the Company has dependable sources of supply.  Management believes that these factors combine to make Eastman an industry leader in reliability of supply and cost position.  In addition to the cost advantage of being coal-based, the Fibers segment's competitive strengths include a reputation for high-quality products, technical expertise, large scale vertically-integrated processes, reliability of supply, acetate flake supply in excess of internal needs, a reput
ation for customer service excellence, and a customer base characterized by long-term customer relationships.  The Company intends to continue to capitalize and build on these strengths to improve the strategic position of its Fibers segment.



Contributing to the profitability in the Fibers segment are the limited number of competitors, the high industry capacity utilization, and significant barriers to entry.  These barriers include, but are not limited to, high capital costs for integrated manufacturing facilities.



·Products

ØAcetate TowEastman manufactures acetate tow under the EstronTMtrademark according to a wide variety of customer specifications, primarily for use in the manufacture of cigarette filters.  Acetate tow is the largest sales product of the Fibers segment.  Worldwide demand for acetate tow is expected to increase by one to two percent per year over the next several years.  Demand growth within Asia, mostly China, one of the largest and fastest growing markets, primarily influences this expected global increase.

ØAcetate YarnThe Company manufactures acetate filament yarn under the EstronTMand ChromspunTMtrademarks in a wide variety of specifications.  EstronTMacetate yarn is available in bright and dull luster and is suitable for subsequent dyeing in the fabric form.  ChromspunTMacetate yarn is solution-dyed in the manufacturing process and is available in more than 100 colors.



ØAcetyl Chemical ProductsThe Fibers segment's acetyl chemical products are sold primarily to other acetate fiber market producers and include cellulose diacetate flake, acetic acid, and acetic anhydride.  Each is used as a raw material for the production of cellulose acetate fibers.  The Fibers segment also markets acetyl-based triacetin plasticizers under the EstrobondTMtrademark, generally for use by cigarette manufacturers as a bonding agent in cigarette filters.




·Strategy and Innovation



ØGrowth

In the Fibers segment, Eastman is leveraging its strong customer relationships and knowledge of the industry to identify growth options.  These growth options are enabled by its excess acetate flake capacity at the Kingsport, Tennessee site.  In 2008, Eastman expanded its Workington, England plant to support customer demand in the region.  In 2010 production began at a new acetate tow facility in Ulsan, South Korea to support customer demand in Asia.  With this new facility Eastman’s total global acetate tow capacity is approximately 210,000 metric tons.  The Company continues to pursue growth opportunities, particularly in the Asia Pacific region.



ØContinue to Capitalize on Fibers Technology Expertise

The Fibers segment intends to continue to make use of its capabilities in fibers technology to maintain a strong focus on incremental product and process improvements, with the goals of meeting customers' evolving needs and improving the segment's manufacturing process efficiencies.



ØMaintain Cost-Effective Operations and Consistent Cash Flows and Earnings

The Fibers segment intends to continue to operate in a cost effective manner, capitalizing on its technology, scale and vertical integration, and to make further productivity and efficiency improvements through continued investments in R&D.



ØResearch and Development

The Company's Fibers segment R&D efforts focus on process and product improvements, as well as cost reduction, with the objectives of increasing sales and reducing costs.  The Fibers segment also conducts research to assist acetate tow customers in the effective use of the segment's products and in the customers' product development efforts.



·Customers and Markets



The customer base in the Fibers segment is relatively concentrated, consisting of approximately 150 customers in the tobacco, textile, and acetate fibers industries.  Eastman's Fibers segment customers are located in all regions of the world.  The largest 17 customers within the Fibers segment include multinational as well as regional cigarette producers, fabric manufacturers, and other acetate fiber producers.  These top 17 customers accounted for about 80 percent of the segment's total sales revenue in 2010.  Sales prices for a significant portion of the Fibers segment's products are typically negotiated on an annual basis.  The segment maintains a strong position in acetate tow exports to China.



·Competition



Eastman is the second largest acetate tow manufacturer in the world.  Competitors in the fibers market for acetate tow include Celanese Corporation ("Celanese"), Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd ("Daicel"), Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd. ("Mitsubishi Rayon"), and Rhodia S.A.



In the segment's acetate yarn business, major competitors include Industrias del Acetato de Celulosa S.A. ("INACSA"), UAB Korelita, and Mitsubishi Rayon.  Eastman is the world leader in acetate yarn production and the only acetate yarn producer in the U.S. and Canada.  The physical properties of acetate yarn make it desirable for use in textile products such as suit linings, women's apparel, medical tape, drapery, ribbons and other specialty fabrics.  However, over the past 20 years, demand for acetate yarn has been adversely affected by the substitution of lower cost polyester and rayon yarns.  Accordingly, worldwide demand for acetate yarn is expected to continue to decrease as mills substitute these cheaper yarns for acetate yarn.  Eastman, however, remains uniquely positioned because i
t is the only integrated producer of acetate yarn.



As described above under "Fibers Segment – Overview", the principal methods of competition include maintaining the Company's large-scale vertically integrated manufacturing process from coal-based acetyl raw materials, reliability of supply, product quality, and sustaining long-term customer relationships.








PCISEGMENT



·Overview



The PCI segment leverages large scale and vertical integration from the acetyl and olefins streams to manufacture diversified products that are sold externally as well as used internally for other segments of the company.  The PCI segment has leading market positions in many of its core products and believes it is well-positioned in key markets for most of its major products, including both acetyl products and olefin derivatives, due to its competitive cost position and supply reliability versus competitors.  In 2010 the PCI segment had sales revenue of $2.1 billion, 36 percent of the Company's total sales.





·Products



The PCI segment offers over 195 products that include intermediates based on oxo and acetyl chemistries and performance chemicals.  The PCI segment's 2010 sales revenue was approximately 65 percent from olefin-based and 20 percent from acetyl-based chemistries, and 15 percent from other chemicals.  Approximately 65 percent of the PCI segment's sales revenue is generated in the U.S. and Canada, a region in which the Company has a leading market share position for most of its key oxo and acetyl products.  Sales in all regions are generated through a mix of the Company's direct sales force and a network of distributors.  The Company's PCI segment is the largest marketer of acetic anhydride in the United States, an intermediate that is a critical component of analgesics, laundry care products, and nutri
tional supplements, and is the only U.S. producer of acetaldehyde, a key intermediate in the production of agricultural and other specialty products.  Eastman believes that it manufactures one of the world's broadest ranges of products derived from oxo aldehydes and holds a leading North American market position in the majority of these products.  The PCI segment's other intermediate products include glycols and polymer intermediates.  Many of the intermediates products in the PCI segment are priced based on supply and demand of substitute and competing products.  In order to maintain a competitive position, the Company strives to operate with a low cost manufacturing base.



The PCI segment also manufactures performance chemicals and complex organic molecules such as plasticizers, diketene derivatives, specialty ketones, and specialty anhydrides for medical, pharmaceutical, fiber, and food and beverage ingredients, which are typically used in specialty market applications.  The acquisition of Genovique Specialties Corporation ("Genovique") added new plasticizers to the Company's existing portfolio, and Eastman believes it has the broadest product line of non-phthalate plasticizers in the world.  The PCI segment’s specialty products are typically priced based on value added rather than supply and demand factors.








·Strategy and Innovation



To build on and maintain its status as a low cost producer, the PCI segment continuously focuses on cost control, operational efficiency, and capacity utilization to maximize earnings.  Through the PCI segment, the Company maximizes the advantage of its highly integrated and world-scale manufacturing facilities.  For example, the Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing facility allows the PCI segment to produce acetic anhydride and other acetyl derivatives from coal rather than natural gas or other petroleum feedstocks.  At the Longview, Texas manufacturing facility, Eastman's PCI segment uses its proprietary oxo-technology in the world's largest single-site, oxo aldehyde manufacturing facility to produce a wide range of alcohols, esters, and other derivative products utilizing local propane and ethane supplies, a
s well as purchased propylene.  These integrated facilities, combined with large scale production processes and a continuous focus on additional process improvements, allow the PCI segment to remain cost competitive with, and for some products cost-advantaged over, its competitors.



The PCI segment selectively focuses on continuing to develop and access markets with high-growth potential for the Company's chemicals.  One such market is for flexible plastic products used in sensitive applications such as toys, child care articles, medical packaging and devices, and food contact.  Eastman 168TMplasticizer and Genovique specialty plasticizers provide effective, sustainable alternatives to ortho-phthalate plasticizers traditionally used in these and other applications.  These plasticizers allow manufacturers to meet the challenging requirements of changing government regulations and consumer preferences without sacrificing production efficiency or product performance.  The acquisition of Genovique 
in 2010 added to the Company's portfolio of non-phthalate plasticizers that serve high growth markets.



The Company engages in R&D initiatives in order to develop new PCI products and find additional applications for existing products and to lower its costs.  The Company is evaluating licensing opportunities for acetic acid and oxo derivatives on a selective basis, and has licensed technology to produce acetyl products to Saudi International Petrochemical Company ("SIPCHEM") in Saudi Arabia and to Chang Chun Petrochemical Company ("Chang Chun") in Taiwan in 2005 and 2007, respectively.  All SIPCHEM licensing agreement revenue has been received, and the Company has the continuing right to purchase the acetic anhydride from the SIPCHEM manufacturing facility.  The Chang Chun manufacturing plant is expected to be operational in the second half of 2011.



·Customers and Markets



The PCI segment's products are used in a variety of markets and end uses, including agriculture, transportation, beverages, nutrition, pharmaceuticals, coatings, flooring, medical devices, toys, adhesives, sealants, household products, polymers, textiles, and industrials.  Because of its cost position, reliability, and service, the Company has been able to establish and maintain long-term arrangements and relationships with PCI customers.  Product-specific olefin derivative market conditions vary based upon prevailing supply and demand conditions.  An important trend for the PCI segment's business is a tendency toward regionalization of key markets due to increased transportation costs and local supply in developing regions from new capacities.  The PCI segment benefits from this trend primarily in 
the U.S. and Canada.  The anhydride purchased from the new SIPCHEM facility will give increased access to the Asian market for PCI products.  Additionally, the PCI segment is engaged in continuous efforts to optimize product and customer mix.  Approximately 80 percent of the PCI segment's sales revenue in 2010 was from 135 of approximately 1,100 customers worldwide.



·Competition



Historically, there have been significant barriers to entry for potential competitors in the PCI segment's major product lines, including acetic acid and acetic anhydride, primarily due to the relevant technology having been held by a small number of companies.  As this technology has become more readily available, competition from multinational chemical manufacturers has intensified.  Eastman competes with these and other producers primarily based on price, as products are generally interchangeable, but also on technology, marketing, and services.  Eastman's major competitors in this segment include large, multinational companies such as BASF, Celanese, Dow, and Exxon Mobil Corporation.








SPECIALTYPLASTICS SEGMENT



·Overview



In the Specialty Plastics segment, the Company produces and markets specialized copolyesters and cellulosic plastics that possess differentiated performance properties for value-added end uses.  In 2010, the Specialty Plastics segment had sales revenue of $1.0 billion, approximately 18 percent of Eastman's total sales.



Eastman has the ability within its Specialty Plastics segment to modify its polymers and plastics to control and customize their final properties, creating numerous opportunities for new application development, including the expertise to develop new materials and new applications starting from the molecular level in the research laboratory to the final designed application.  Recent industry trends in various markets have renewed customers' interest in some of the unique attributes offered by Eastman materials.  Such trends include, but are not limited to, interest in plastics that have superior chemical and mechanical properties to withstand increasing demands in specific applications, as well as halogen-free and bisphenol A ("BPA")-free plastics.  The addition of the Eastman Tritan™ family of products
 significantly enhances the segment's ability to customize copolyesters and cellulosic plastics for new markets and applications.  In addition, the Specialty Plastics segment has a long history of manufacturing excellence with strong process improvement programs providing continuing cost reduction.



·Products



The Specialty Plastics segment consists of two primary product lines: specialty copolyesters and cellulosics.  Eastman estimates that the market growth for copolyesters will continue to be higher than general domestic economic growth due to ongoing specialty copolyester material innovations and displacement opportunities.  Eastman believes that cellulosic materials will grow at or above the rate of the domestic economy in general, driven by strong demand in the LCD market, and increased demand for cellulosics driven by the sustainability profile of these bio-derived materials and their performance as engineered thermoplastics.  For both specialty copolyesters and cellulosic plastics, the Specialty Plastics segment benefits from integration into the Company's polyester and acetyls streams.  The Speci
alty Plastics segment's specialty copolyesters are currently produced in Kingsport, Tennessee; Columbia, South Carolina; and Kuantan, Malaysia.  The cellulosic products are produced in Kingsport, Tennessee.



ØSpecialty Copolyesters

Eastman's specialty copolyesters accounted for approximately 80 percent of the Specialty Plastics segment's 2010 sales revenue.  Eastman's specialty copolyesters, which generally are based on Eastman's production of CHDM, typically fill a market position between polycarbonates and acrylics.  Polycarbonates traditionally have offered some superior performance characteristics, while acrylics have been less expensive.  Specialty copolyesters combine superior performance with competitive pricing and are being substituted for both polycarbonates and acrylics in some applications.



The Specialty Plastics segment continues to develop new applications for its core copolyesters to meet growing demand for more environmentally-friendly and sustainable copolyester products.  Additionally, the segment has had significant growth in sales of copolyesters for clear handleware applications, where Eastman's materials offer a unique merchandising solution.  By broadening its Embrace™ family of products, Eastman has continued to have growth in sales of shrink packaging.  The family of shrink packaging offerings has made Eastman the leading provider of resins for full-body shrink labels.  Eastman's newest copolyester, Tritan™, enables the Company to move to higher value applications by adding high temperature resistance to the other properties of copolyesters, including tou
ghness, chemical resistance, and excellent processability.



ØCellulosic Plastics

Cellulosics and cellulosic plastics accounted for approximately 20 percent of the Specialty Plastics segment's 2010 sales revenue.  Market demand for Eastman’s family of cellulosic polymers, VisualizeTMcellulosics, for the LCD market continues to be strong.  Through the development of new formulations and applications, Eastman's LCD product line has continued to benefit from demand growth in the LCD market. Eastman’s proprietary Visualize™ line of products are known for their superior optical properties and are the preferred choice for certain film structures in LCD polarizers.



16Eastman cellulosic plastics, sold under the Tenite™ brand, are known for their excellent balance of properties, including toughness, hardness, strength, surface gloss, clarity, chemical resistance, and warmth to the touch.  During 2010, Eastman entered into a joint venture with Mazzucchelli 1949 SPA in Shenzhen, China, which is expected to expand Eastman's portfolio of cellulosic plastics.  The joint venture will produce compounded cellulose acetate pellets, mostly used in the production of high design injection molded articles such as ophthalmic frames or tool handles.  The Mazzucchelli joint venture facility is expected to be operational by second quarter 2011.

·Strategy and Innovation



Through Eastman's advantaged asset position and applications development innovation efforts, the segment has increased specialty copolyesters sales volume to twice U.S. gross domestic product growth over the past five years.  During 2010, Eastman significantly increased its share in the shrink film market by developing new applications for its products that now include the Embrace™ family of products.  The trend of influencing the purchasing decision with product design has also benefited Eastman's clear handleware solutions for large containers.  Additionally, increased demand for BPA-free products has created new opportunities for various applications of legacy copolyesters.



The LCD market is a developing growth market for the Specialty Plastics segment.  The Company continues to invest in the development of copolyester and cellulosic-based product solutions for this high-growth market, with the objective of being a strategic raw material supplier in the LCD market.  The Company's 70 percent expansion of its Kingsport, Tennessee cellulose triacetatemanufacturing capacity is expected to be operational in first quarter 2012.



The addition of Tritan™ copolyester to Eastman's Specialty Plastics product offering has created new opportunities for applications previously occupied by materials such as polycarbonate or polysulfone.  During 2010, Eastman gained market acceptance for Tritan™ in certain applications such as water bottles and other consumer houseware applications through OEMs and brand owners.  During 2009, Eastman completed the construction of a new monomer facility and a new polymer facility.  Both were operational in first quarter 2010.  The monomer facility produces a proprietary monomer required in the production of Tritan™ copolyester while the polymer facility is capable of producing 30,000 metric tons of Tritan™ polymer.  Given the anticipated successful market acceptance o
f Tritan™ copolyester and the projected rapid demand growth, the monomer facility was designed to be capable of supplying a second Tritan™ copolyester manufacturing facility of 30,000 metric tons per year.  Based on the 2010 demand, the Company is expanding to a second full scale Tritan™ copolyester manufacturing facility which is expected to be operational in early 2012.



The Company is also expanding its capacity for CHDM, a monomer used in the manufacture of copolyester, by approximately 25 percent and expects the capacity to be operational in two phases in mid-2011 and in 2012.



The Specialty Plastics segment is focused on providing consistent profit margins and the Company continues to leverage the advantages of being an integrated polyester manufacturer and expects to continue to pursue opportunities within the integrated polyester stream.  The Company is utilizing rationalized PET assets to reduce Specialty Plastics copolyester conversion costs and expand production with larger scale assets.



·Customers and Markets



The customer base in the Specialty Plastics segment is broad and diverse, consisting of approximately 690 customers worldwide in a variety of industries.  Approximately 80 percent of the Specialty Plastics segment's 2010 sales revenue was attributable to approximately 70 customers.  The Specialty Plastics segment seeks to develop mutually beneficial relationships with its customers throughout various stages of product life cycles.  By doing so, it is better able to understand its customers' needs as those customers develop new products and more effectively bring new solutions to market.




Specialty copolyesters are sold into a wide range of markets and applications including specialty packaging (medical and electronic component trays, shrink label films, general purpose packaging, and multilayer films); in-store fixtures and displays (point of purchase displays including indoor sign and store fixtures); consumer and durable goods (appliances, housewares, toys, and sporting goods); medical goods (disposable medical devices, health care equipment and instruments, and pharmaceutical packaging); personal care and consumer packaging (food and beverage packaging and consumer packaging); photographic film, optical film, fibers/nonwovens, tapes/labels, and LCD.  The Tritan™ family of products is being sold into a range of markets including, but not limited to, consumer housewares, bulk water, infant care, small app
liances and other consumer durables segments.  Additional applications and markets are currently under development.

·Competition





The Specialty Plastics segment believes that it maintains competitive advantages throughout the product life cycle.  At product introduction, the segment's breadth of offerings combined with its R&D capabilities and customer service orientation enable it to quickly bring a wide variety of products to market.  As products enter the growth phase of the life cycle, the Specialty Plastics segment is able to continue to leverage its product breadth by generating sales revenue from multiple sources, as well as retaining customers from long-term relationships.  As products become more price sensitive, the Specialty Plastics segment can take advantage of Eastman's scale of operations, including conversion of rationalized PET assets and vertical integration, to maintain a superior product conversion cost position.



In recent years, the industry has been confronted by unprecedented raw material cost volatility.  While raw material cost volatility is expected to continue into the future, Eastman believes that it maintains a competitive advantage from diversification of its raw materials base by using both coal for cellulosics and petrochemical-based feedstocks for copolyesters.



Eastman's primary competitors for copolyester products include Bayer AG, Dow, Evonvik Industries, Saudi Basic Industries Corporation ("SABIC"), and SK Chemical Industries.  Competition for cellulosic plastics is primarily from other producers of cellulose ester polymers such as Acetati SpA and Daicel.






REGIONALBUSINESS OVERVIEW



Eastman operates as a global business with approximately 50 percent of its sales and 60 percent of its operating earnings, excluding asset impairments and restructuring charges, generated from outside the United States and Canada region in 2010.  As the Company focuses on growth in emerging markets, the percentage of sales and earnings from outside the United States and Canada are expected to increase.  While manufacturing is centered in the U.S., the Company is able to transport products globally to meet demand.  In 2010, all regions were positively affected by the recovery from the global recession, but the degree of the impact on the various regions was dependent on the mix of the Company's segments and products in each region.  In 2010, the mix of regional revenue from the segments was as f
ollows:



CASPIFibersPCISpecialty PlasticsTotalUnited States and Canada25 %10 %50 %15 %100 %Asia Pacific20 %35 %25 %20 %100 %Europe, Middle East, and Africa35 %25 %20 %20 %100 %Latin America35 %20 %35 %10 %100 %



The United States and Canada region contains the highest concentration of the Company's long-lived assets with approximately 90 percent located in the United States.  Management believes that the location of these manufacturing facilities provides the Company with an advantaged cost position for the Company's domestic customers, particularly for commodity and bulk products.  The PCI segment accounts for approximately half of the region's revenue, as the segment is well-positioned in this region's market for most of its major products, including acetic acid and acetic anhydride, although the region is subject to increased variability in revenues due to the effect of raw material and energy costs on this segment’s selling prices.



One-third of revenue in the Asia Pacific region is from acetate tow products in the Fibers segment.  The region includes many emerging growth markets served by Eastman products, including specialty products in the CASPI segment and acetate tow in the Fibers segment, particularly in China.  The Company is responding to this growth by strengthening its position through joint ventures and acquisitions such as the recent acquisition of an acetate tow manufacturing facility in Korea.



The Europe, Middle East, and Africa region has fewer sales from commodity product lines than any other region and therefore is less affected by economic conditions and prices are less dependent on raw material costs compared to other regions.



The Latin America region has significant sales from commodity product lines, particularly in the PCI and CASPI segments, and is therefore subject to increased volatility in sales volume and selling prices.



CORPORATE INITIATIVES



In addition to its business segments, the Company manages certain costs and initiatives at the corporate level, including certain R&D costs not allocated to any one operating segment.  The Company uses a stage-gating process, which is a disciplined decision making framework for evaluating targeted opportunities, with a number of projects at various stages of development.  As projects meet milestones, additional investment is committed to those projects.   The Company continues to explore and invest in R&D initiatives that are aligned with macro trends in sustainability, consumerism, and energy efficiency through high performance materials, advanced cellulosics, environmentally-friendly chemistry, and process improvements, including an initiative in the building and construction market.








DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS



The Company completed the sale of the PET business, related assets at the Columbia, South Carolina site, and technology of its Performance Polymers segment on January 31, 2011.The PET business, assets, and technology sold were substantially all of the Performance Polymers segment.  Performance Polymers segment operating results are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented and are therefore not included in results from continuing operations under GAAP.Corporate costs which were allocated to the Performance Polymers segment have been reallocated to the remaining segments in
 the Company's financial statements.  The total cash proceeds of the transaction were $600 million,subject to post-closing adjustment for working capital.  For further information, refer toNote 2, "Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.



EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY GENERAL INFORMATION



Sales, Marketing, and Distribution



The Company markets and sells products primarily through a global marketing and sales organization which has a presence in the United States and in over 35 other countries selling into approximately 100 countries around the world.  Eastman has a marketing and sales strategy targeting industries and applications where Eastman products and services provide differentiated value.  Market, customer, application, and technical expertise are critical capabilities.  Through a highly skilled and specialized sales force that is capable of providing customized business solutions for each of its four operating segments, Eastman is able to establish long-term customer relationships and strives to become the preferred supplier of specialty chemicals and specialty plastics worldwide.



The Company's products are also marketed through indirect channels, which include distributors and contract representatives.  Non-U.S. sales tend to be made more frequently through distributors and contract representatives than U.S. sales.  The combination of direct and indirect sales channels, including sales online through its Customer Center website, allows Eastman to reliably serve customers throughout the world.



The Company's products are shipped to customers directly from Eastman's manufacturing plants, as well as from distribution centers worldwide.



Sources and Availability of Raw Material and Energy



Eastman purchases a substantial portion, estimated to be approximately 75 percent, of its key raw materials and energy through long-term contracts, generally of three to five years in initial duration with renewal or cancellation options for each party.  Most of these agreements do not require the Company to purchase materials or energy if its operations are reduced or idle.  The cost of raw materials and energy is generally based on market price at the time of purchase, and Eastman uses derivative financial instruments, valued at quoted market prices, to mitigate the impact of short-term market price fluctuations.  Key raw materials include propane, paraxylene, cellulose, ethylene glycol, coal, ethane, methanol, PTA, and a wide variety of precursors for specialty organic chemicals.  Key purchased e
nergy sources include natural gas, steam, coal, and electricity.  The Company has multiple suppliers for most key raw materials and energy and uses quality management principles, such as the establishment of long-term relationships with suppliers and on-going performance assessment and benchmarking, as part of its supplier selection process.  When appropriate, the Company purchases raw materials from a single source supplier to maximize quality and cost improvements, and has developed contingency plans designed to minimize the impact of any supply disruptions from single source suppliers.



While temporary shortages of raw materials and energy may occasionally occur, these items are generally sufficiently available to cover current and projected requirements.  However, their continuous availability and cost are subject to unscheduled plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, or due to domestic or world market and political conditions, changes in government regulation, natural disasters, war or other outbreak of hostilities or terrorism or other political factors, or breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure.  Eastman's operations or products have been in the past and may be in the future, at times, adversely affected by these factors.  The Company's raw material and energy costs as a percent of total cost of operations were approximately 60 percent in 2010 and 
2009 and 70 percent in 2008.








Capital Expenditures



Capital expenditures were $243 million, $310 million, and $634 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.  Capital expenditures in 2009 decreased significantly compared to 2008 as the Company deferred discretionary spending on capital projects in response to a more challenging economic environment.  Capital expenditures remained at a level sufficient for required maintenance and certain strategic growth initiatives through first nine months 2010.  In fourth quarter 2010, the Company increased spending on discretionary infrastructure projects and certain strategic growth initiatives to $110 million for the quarter.  The Company expects that 2011 capital spending will continue at the fourth quarter 2010 pace and will be approximately $450 million.  The Company's capital spending in 2011 will focus on o
rganic growth initiatives, particularly in the Specialty Plastics, CASPI, and PCI segments.



Employees



Eastman employs approximately 10,000 men and women worldwide.  Approximately four percent of the total worldwide labor force is represented by unions, mostly outside the United States.



Customers



Eastman has an extensive customer base and, while it is not dependent on any one customer, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect the Company until such business is replaced.  The top 100 customers accounted for approximately 70 percent of the Company's 2010 sales revenue.



Intellectual Property and Trademarks



While the Company's intellectual property portfolio is an important Company asset which it expands and vigorously protects globally through a combination of patents that expire at various times, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets, neither its business as a whole nor any particular segment is materially dependent upon any one particular patent, trademark, copyright, or trade secret.  As a producer of a broad and diverse portfolio of both specialty and commodity chemicals, plastics, and fibers, Eastman owns over 550 active United States patents and more than 1,100 active foreign patents, expiring at various times over several years, and also owns over 2,400 active worldwide trademark applications and registrations.  The Company's intellectual property relates to a wide variety of products and processes.  
;Eastman continues to actively protect its intellectual property.As the laws of many countries do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States, Eastman cannot ensure that it will be able to adequately protect its intellectual property assets outside the United States.



The Company pursues opportunities to license proprietary technology to third parties in areas where it has determined competitive impact to core businesses will be minimal.These arrangements typically are structured to require payments at significant project milestones such as signing, completion of design, and start-up.  To date, efforts have been focused on acetyls technology in the PCI segment.  The Company also is actively pursuing licensing opportunities for oxo derivatives in the PCI segment.



Over 250 active United States patents and patent applications, more than 1,100 foreign patents applications, and approximately 100 active worldwide trademark applications and registrations were sold as part of the sale of the PET business, related assets at the Columbia, South Carolina site, and technology of the Performance Polymers segment.



Research and Development



For 2010, 2009, and 2008, Eastman's R&D expenses totaled $152 million, $124 million, and $143 million, respectively.








Environmental



Eastman is subject to significant and complex laws, regulations, and legal requirements relating to the use, storage, handling, generation, transportation, emission, discharge, disposal, and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes in all of the countries in which it does business.  These health, safety, and environmental considerations are a priority in the Company's planning for all existing and new products and processes.  The Health, Safety, Environmental and Security Committee of Eastman's Board of Directors oversees the Company's policies and practices concerning health, safety, and the environment and its processes for complying with related laws and regulations, and monitors related matters.



The Company's policy is to operate its plants and facilities in a manner that protects the environment and the health and safety of its employees and the public.  The Company intends to continue to make expenditures for environmental protection and improvements in a timely manner consistent with its policies and with the technology available.  In some cases, applicable environmental regulations such as those adopted under the U.S. Clean Air Act and Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and related actions of regulatory agencies, determine the timing and amount of environmental costs incurred by the Company.  Likewise, when finalized, potential legislation related to greenhouse gas emissions, energy policy, and associated implementing regulations could impact the timing and amount of environmental costs incu
rred by the Company.



The Company accrues environmental costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  In some instances, the amount cannot be reasonably estimated due to insufficient information, particularly as to the nature and timing of future expenditures.  In these cases, the liability is monitored until such time that sufficient data exists.  With respect to a contaminated site, the amount accrued reflects the Company's assumptions about remedial requirements at the site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties.  Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, 
unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations, and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs.



The Company's cash expenditures related to environmental protection and improvement were estimated to be $200 million, $173 million, and $218 million, in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.  These amounts were primarily for operating costs associated with environmental protection equipment and facilities, but also included expenditures for construction and development.  Other than potential capital expenditures at the Company's Kingsport, Tennessee facility related to regulations associated with controlling air emissions from boilers, the Company does not expect future environmental capital expenditures arising from requirements of recently promulgated environmental laws and regulations to materially increase the Company's planned level of annual capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.  Pot
ential capital expenditures associated with boiler air emissions remain uncertain pending adoption of final regulations, but could increase average annual environmental capital expenditures significantly over the next five years compared to recent historical levels depending on final regulation requirements and the Company's method of addressing those requirements.



Other matters concerning health, safety, and the environment are discussed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II Item 7 and inNotes 1, "Significant Accounting Policies",15, "Environmental Matters", and25, "Reserve Rollfowards" to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.



Backlog



On January 1, 2011 and 2010, Eastman's backlog of firm sales orders represented less than 10 percent of the Company's total consolidated revenue for the previous year.  These orders are primarily short-term and all orders are expected to be filled in the following year.  The Company manages its inventory levels to control the backlog of products depending on customers' needs.  In areas where the Company is the single source of supply, or competitive forces or customers' needs dictate, the Company may carry additional inventory to meet customer requirements.








Financial Information About Geographic Areas



For sales revenue and long-lived assets by geographic areas, seeNote 23, "Segment Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.  For information about regional sales and earnings, see "Regional Business Overview" above in this "Business" section of this Annual Report.



Available Information – SEC Filings



The Company makes available free of charge, through the "Investors – SEC Information" section of its Internet website (www.eastman.com), its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").



