ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

CORPORATE OVERVIEW



Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company") is a global advanced materials and specialty additives company that produces a broad range of products found in items people use every day. Eastman began business in 1920 for the purpose of producing chemicals for Eastman Kodak Company's photographic business and became a public company, incorporated in Delaware, on December 31, 1993. Eastman has48 manufacturing sitesand equity interests inthreemanufacturing joint ventures in14 countriesthat supply products to customers throughout the world. The Company's headquarters and largest manufacturing site are located in Kingsport, Tennessee. With a robust portfolio of specialty businesses, Eastman works with customers to deliver innovative products and solutions while maintaining a commitment to safety and sustainability. Eastman's businesses are managed and reported in four operating segments: Additives & Functional Products ("AFP"), Advanced Materials ("AM"), Chemical Intermediates ("CI"), and Fibers. See "Business Segments".



Acquisitions have supported Eastman's strategy to increase emphasis on specialty businesses and have provided opportunities for the integration of technology platforms enabling differentiated product development targeting new niche markets. In July 2012, the Company acquired Solutia Inc. ("Solutia"), a global leader in performance materials and specialty chemicals. In June 2014, the Company acquired BP plc's global aviation turbine engine oil business. In August 2014, the Company acquired Knowlton Technologies, LLC, a leader in the design, accelerated prototyping, and manufacture of wet-laid nonwovens in filtration, friction, and custom designed composite webs. In December 2014, Eastman acquired Taminco Corporation, a global specialty chemical company and Commonwealth Laminating & Coating, Inc., a specialty films business. Results of the acquired businesses are included in Eastman's financial results for the periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Annual Report").



Eastman uses an innovation-driven growth model which consists of leveraging world class scalable technology platforms, delivering differentiated application development capabilities, and relentlessly engaging the market. The Company's world class technology platforms form the foundation of sustainable growth by differentiated products through significant scale advantages in research and development ("R&D") and advantaged global market access. Differentiated application development converts market complexity into opportunities for growth and accelerates innovation by enabling a deeper understanding of the value of Eastman's products and how they perform within customers' and end user products. Key areas of application development include thermoplastic processing, functional films, coatings formulations, rubber additive formulations, adhesives formulations, non-wovens and textiles, and animal nutrition. The Company engages the market by working directly with customers and downstream users, targeting attractive niche markets, and leveraging disruptive macro trends such as health and wellness, natural resource efficiency, an increasing middle class in emerging economies, and feeding a growing population. Management believes that these elements of the Company's innovation-driven growth model combined with disciplined portfolio management and balanced capital deployment will result in consistent, sustainable earnings growth and strong cash flow.



In 2017, the Company reported sales revenue of$9.5 billion, operating earnings of$1.5 billion, and net earnings attributable to Eastman of$1.4 billion. Diluted earnings per share attributable to Eastman were$9.47. Cash provided by operating activities was $1.7 billion. Excluding non-core and unusual items, adjusted net earnings were$1.1 billionand adjusted earnings per diluted share were$7.61. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report for reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures, description of excluded items, and related information. For Company sales revenue by end-market, see Exhibit 99.01 "2017 Company and Segment Sales Revenue by End-Use Market" of this Annual Report.














BUSINESS STRATEGY





In 2017, as part of the Company's strategy to increase emphasis on specialty businesses and products, the Company continued to pursue strategic options to divest or otherwise monetize its excess ethylene capacity position and certain commodity olefin intermediates product lines, while retaining its cost-advantaged integrated position to propylene which supports specialty derivatives throughout the Company.



Growth and Innovation



Management is pursuing specific opportunities to leverage Eastman's innovation-driven growth model for continued near-term and long-term greater than end-market growth by both sustaining the Company's leadership in existing markets and expanding into new markets. These opportunities which are expected to add greater than two percent on a compounded basis to revenue from 2018 through 2020, currently include:



•AFP segment:

•Growth and innovation of Crystex®insoluble sulfur rubber additives through completion of an expansion of the manufacturing facility in Kuantan, Malaysia in 2017 that management expects will produce material qualified for commercial sales in 2018. This expansion is expected to allow the Company to capitalize on recent enhancements of technology for the manufacture of Crystex®insoluble sulfur by improving the Company's cost position and facilitating the introduction of new products for the tire markets.

•Growth and innovation of Tetrashield®performance polyester resins based on proprietary monomer technology. These polyester resins provide a combination of improved performance and sustainability, particularly for the automotive coatings, industrial, and food packaging markets.

•Growth and innovation of Impera®high performance resins for tires. When used as additives in tire compound formulations, Impera®resins enable tire manufacturers to improve the safety and handling of tires, balance tire performance and fuel economy needs, and achieve superior levels of tack for tire construction.

•Growth and innovation of Aerafin®polymer, developed from proprietary olefin technology. These olefin polymers enable improved processing time and other benefits including low odor, improved adhesion, exceptional peel performance, and thermal stability for adhesive applications within the hygiene market.

•Growth in animal nutrition and solar specialty fluids through enhanced commercial execution.












•AM segment:

•Continued success of Tritan®copolyester in the durable goods and health and wellness markets, supported by construction of an additional 60,000 metric ton expansion of Tritan®copolyester capacity at the Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing facility expected to be complete in early 2018 and fully operational in first half 2018.

•Growth and innovation of Saflex®and head up displays ("HUD") acoustic interlayers used in the transportation and building and construction markets, supported by construction of a manufacturing facility for polyvinyl butyral ("PVB") resin at the Kuantan, Malaysia site which became fully operational in first quarter 2018.

•Growth and innovation of Treva™, a cellulose-based engineering bioplastic that offers high performance, sustainability, and design flexibility in applications that require complex and intricate designs and high safety requirements such as eyeglass frames, wearable electronics, and lenses.

•Growth in performance films in North America and China through strengthened sales channel, marketing, and commercial execution strategies and capabilities.



•Fibers segment:

•Leveraging the innovation-driven growth model to focus on growth and innovation in the textiles market through new product offerings including:

▪Naia®, a yarn for the apparel market developed from Eastman's proprietary cellulose ester technology.

▪Avra™, a family of fibers for the performance apparel market developed from a combination of Eastman proprietary spinning technology and polymer chemistry enabling unique fiber capabilities of size, shape, comfort, and performance.

▪Vestera™, a new wood pulp-based alternative for the nonwoven industry used in personal hygiene applications.



Sustainability



Because of Eastman's proprietary and differentiated technologies, applications development capabilities and advantaged feedstocks, the Company views sustainability as a source of competitive strength for growth. Eastman is committed to innovation and growth efforts focused on opportunities where disruptive macro trends align with the Company's differentiated and innovative technology platforms and applications development. Eastman has identified disruptive macro trends to align with the corporate strategy and drive innovation of new products that enable customers' development and sales of sustainable products. Examples of Eastman's leading position in providing sustainable solutions within identified disruptive macro trends include:

•Health and wellness: Tritan®copolyester, Tetrashield®performance polyester resins, and Vestera™cellulosic fiber.

•Natural resource efficiency: Saflex®Q series advanced acoustic interlayers, Impera®high performance resins for tires, and Treva™proprietary engineering bioplastic.

•Emerging middle class: Saflex®and HUD acoustic interlayers, Regalite®hydrocarbon resins, Naia®cellulosic yarn, and Avra™performance fibers.

•Feeding a growing population: Eastman organic acids, Enhanz™feed additive, and Banguard™crop protection.





FINANCIAL STRATEGY



In its management of the Company's businesses and growth initiatives, management is committed to maintaining a strong financial position with appropriate financial flexibility and liquidity. Eastman management believes maintaining a financial profile that supports an investment grade credit rating is important to its long-term strategic and financial flexibility. The Company employs a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation and deployment of cash. The priorities for uses of available cash include payment of the quarterly dividend, repayment of debt, funding targeted organic and inorganic growth initiatives, and repurchasing shares. Management expects that the combination of continued strong cash flow generation, strong balance sheet, and sufficient liquidity will continue to provide flexibility to pursue growth initiatives.














BUSINESS SEGMENTS



The Company's products and operations are managed and reported in four operating segments: Additives & Functional Products ("AFP"), Advanced Materials ("AM"), Chemical Intermediates ("CI"), and Fibers. This organizational structure is based on the management of the strategies, operating models, and sales channels that the various businesses employ and supports the Company's strategy of continued transformation towards a specialty portfolio of products.



Sales revenue and costs related to growth initiatives, R&D, certain components of pension and other postretirement benefits, and other expenses and income not identifiable to an operating segment are not included in segment operating results for any of the periods presented and are included in "Other". For identification of manufacturing sites, see Item 2, "Properties". For additional information concerning the Company's operating segments, seeNote 19, "Segment Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.





ADDITIVES & FUNCTIONAL PRODUCTS SEGMENT



Overview



In the AFP segment, the Company manufactures chemicals for products in the transportation, consumables, building and construction, animal nutrition, crop protection, energy, personal and home care, and other markets.In 2017, the AFP segment had sales revenue of$3.3 billion,35percent of Eastman's total sales. Key technology platforms in this segment are cellulose esters, polyester polymers, insoluble sulfur, hydrocarbon resins, alkylamine derivatives, and propylene derivatives.



The AFP segment's sales growth is typically above annual industrial production growth due to innovation and enhanced commercial execution with sales to a robust set of end markets. The segment is focused on producing high-value additives that provide critical functionality but which comprise a small percentage of total customer product cost. The segment principally competes on the unique performance characteristics of its products and through leveraging its strong customer base and long-standing customer relationships to promote substantial recurring business and product development. A critical element of the AFP segment's success is its close formulation collaboration with customers through advantaged application development capability.












Principal Products





ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-Use Applications

Coatings and Inks Additives

PolymerscellulosicsTetrashield®polyesterspolyolefinsAdditives and SolventsTexanol®Optifilm®ketonesestersglycol ethersoxo alcoholsspecialty coalescents, specialty solvents, and commodity solventspaint additives and specialty polymersBASF SEDowDuPont Inc.OxeaCelanese CorporationAlternative Technologieswood pulppropanepropylenebuilding and construction (architectural coatings)transportation (OEM) and refinish coatingsdurable goods (wood, industrial coatings and applications)consumables (graphic arts, inks, and packaging)

Adhesives Resins

Piccotac®Regalite®Eastotac®Eastoflex®Aerafin®hydrocarbon resinsand rosin resinsmainly forhot-melt andpressure sensitiveadhesivesExxon Mobil CorporationKolon Industries, Inc.Evonik IndustriesC9 resin oilpiperylenegum rosinpropyleneconsumables (resins used in hygiene and packaging adhesives)building and construction (resins for construction adhesives and interior flooring)

Tire Additives

Crystex®insoluble sulfurrubber additiveOriental Carbon & Chemicals LimitedShikoku Chemicals Corporationsulfurnaphthenic process oiltransportation (tire manufacturing)other rubber products (such as hoses,belts, seals, and footwear)

Santoflex®antidegradant rubber additiveJiangsu Sinorgchem Technology Co., Ltd.Korea Kumho Petrochemical Co., Ltd.Lanxess AGnitrobenzeneanilinemethyl isobutylketonetransportation (tire manufacturing)other rubber products (such as hoses,belts, seals, and footwear)

Impera®performance resinsCray Valley Hydrocarbon Specialty ChemicalsExxon Mobil CorporationKolon IndustriesIncorporatedalpha methylstyrenepiperylenestyrenetransportation (tire manufacturing)












ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-Use ApplicationsCare ChemicalsAlkylamine derivativesamine derivative-based building blocks for production of flocculantsintermediates for surfactantsBASF SEDowDuPont Inc.Huntsman Corporationalkylaminesammoniaalcoholsethylene oxidewater treatmentpersonal and home careSpecialty FluidsTherminol®Turbo OilsSkydrol®SkyKleen®heat transfer andaviation fluidsDowDuPont Inc.Exxon MobilCorporationbenzenephosphorousneo-polyol estersindustrial chemicals and processing (heat transfer fluids for chemical processes)renewable energycommercial aviationAnimal NutritionFormic acid solutionsEnhanz™formic acid-based solutionsBASF SEPerstorpLuxi Chemical GroupFeicheng AcidChemicalssulfuric acidformic acidanimal nutritionCrop ProtectionAlkylaminederivativesBanguard™metam-based soil fumigantsthiram and ziram-based fungicidesplant growth regulatorDowDuPont Inc.Argo-Kanesho Co., Ltd.BayerBASF SEalkylaminesCS2caustic sodaagriculturecrop protection



Percentage of Total Segment SalesProduct Lines201720162015Coatings and Inks Additives23%24%24%Adhesives Resins18%21%21%Tire Additives17%17%17%Care Chemicals17%15%15%Specialty Fluids13%11%11%Animal Nutrition and Crop Protection12%12%12%Total100%100%100%



Percentage of Total Segment SalesSales by Customer Location201720162015United States and Canada35%37%38%Asia Pacific23%21%21%Europe, Middle East, and Africa36%35%35%Latin America6%7%6%Total100%100%100%

See Exhibit 99.01 for AFP segment revenue by end-use market.












Strategy



Management applies the innovation-driven growth model in the AFP segment by leveraging proprietary technologies for the continued development of innovative product offerings and focusing growth efforts on further expanding end markets such as transportation, consumables, building and construction, industrial applications, animal nutrition, care chemicals, crop protection, and energy. Eastman management believes that the ability to leverage the AFP segment's research, differentiated application development, and production capabilities across multiple markets uniquely positions it to meet evolving needs to improve the quality and performance of its customers' products. For example, tire performance labeling regulations in various parts of the world and competitive pressure favoring performance over cost are causing tire manufacturers to simultaneously improve conflicting tire attributes. Eastman's tire additives technology helps tire manufacturers overcome common compromises often observed between wet grip and rolling resistance. In order to address identified market needs, the Company is also developing new technologies such as polyester resins for coatings, sustainable solvents, and cellulose esters and hydrocarbon resins for tires.



Eastman's global manufacturing presence is a key element of the AFP segment's growth strategy. For example, the segment expects to capitalize on industrial growth in Asia from its manufacturing capacity expansion in Kuantan, Malaysia and cellulose ester products sourced from the Company's low-cost cellulose and acetyl manufacturing stream in North America.



In 2017, the Company:

•advanced growth and innovation of Crystex®insoluble sulfur rubber additives through completion of an expansion of the manufacturing facility in Kuantan, Malaysia that management expects will produce material qualified for commercial sales in 2018. This expansion is expected to allow the Company to capitalize on recent enhancements of technology for the manufacture of Crystex®insoluble sulfur by improving the Company's cost position and facilitating the introduction of new products into the tire markets;

•advanced growth and innovation of Tetrashield®performance polyester resins based on proprietary monomer technology. These polyester resins provide a combination of improved performance and sustainability, particularly for the automotive coatings, industrial, and food packaging markets;

•advanced growth and innovation of Impera®high performance resins for tires. When used as additives in tire compound formulations, Impera®resins enable tire manufacturers to improve the safety and handling of tires, balance tire performance and fuel economy needs, and achieve superior levels of tack for tire construction;

•advanced growth and innovation of Aerafin®polymer, developed from proprietary olefin technology. These olefin polymers enable improved processing time and other benefits including low odor, improved adhesion, exceptional peel performance, and thermal stability for adhesive applications within the hygiene market; and

•accelerated growth in animal nutrition and solar specialty fluids through enhanced commercial execution.





ADVANCED MATERIALS SEGMENT



Overview



In the AM segment, the Company produces and markets polymers, films, and plastics with differentiated performance properties for value-added end uses in transportation, consumables, building and construction, durable goods, and health and wellness markets.In 2017, the AM segment had sales revenue of$2.6 billion,27percent of Eastman's total sales. Key technology platforms for this segment include cellulose esters, copolyesters, and PVB and polyester films.



Eastman's technical, application development, and market development capabilities enable the AM segment to modify its polymers, films, and plastics to control and customize their final properties for development of new applications with enhanced functionality. For example, Tritan®copolyesters are a leading solution for food contact applications due to their performance and processing attributes and Bisphenol A ("BPA") free properties. The Saflex®Q Series product line is a leading solution for architectural and automotive applications. The Company maintains what management believes is a leading solar control technology position in the window film market through the use of high performance sputter coatings which enhance solar heat rejection while maintaining superior optical properties. The segment principally competes on differentiated technology and application development capabilities. Management believes the AM segment's competitive advantages also include long-term customer relationships, vertical integration and scale in manufacturing, and leading market positions.












Principal Products

ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-Use ApplicationsSpecialty PlasticsTritan®copolyesterEastar®copolyestersSpectar®copolyesterEmbrace®copolyesterVisualize®Eastman Aspira™family of resinsFlexvue®Treva™copolyesterscellulose estersCovestroTrinseoEvonik Industries AGSaudi Basic Industries CorporationMitsubishi Chemical CorporationS.K. Chemical IndustriesSichuan Push Acetati Company LimitedDaicel Chemical Industries LtdSABICparaxyleneethylene glycolcellulosepurified terephthalic acidconsumables (consumer packaging,cosmetics packaging, in-storefixtures and displays)durable goods (consumer housewaresand appliances)health and wellness (medical)electronics (displays)Advanced InterlayersSaflex®Saflex®Q SeriesPVB sheetspecialty PVBintermediatesSekisui Chemical Co.,Ltd.Kuraray Co., LtdKingboard (Fo Gang)Specialty ResinsLimited,Chang ChunPetrochemical Co.,Ltdpolyvinyl alcoholvinyl acetate monomerbutyraldehyde2-ethyl hexanolethanoltriethylene gylcoltransportation (automotive safety glass,automotive acoustic glass, andHUD)building and construction (PVB forarchitectural interlayers)Performance FilmsLLumar®SunTek®V-KOOL®Gila®window film and protective filmproducts foraftermarketapplied films3M CompanySaint-Gobain S.A.Beijing Kangde XinComposite MaterialCompany, LLC"KDX"polyethylene terephthalate filmtransportation (automotive after-market window film and paintprotection film)building and construction (residentialand commercial window films)



Percentage of Total Segment SalesProduct Lines201720162015Specialty Plastics51%50%51%Advanced Interlayers33%34%33%Performance Films16%16%16%Total100%100%100%

Percentage of Total Segment SalesSales by Customer Location201720162015United States and Canada36%37%38%Asia Pacific33%32%31%Europe, Middle East, and Africa26%26%26%Latin America5%5%5%Total100%100%100%

See Exhibit 99.01 for AM segment revenue by end-use market.












Strategy



Management applies the innovation-driven growth model in the AM segment by leveraging innovation and technology platforms into new products and applications, accelerating AM segment growth, and leveraging its manufacturing capacity. The segment continues to expand its portfolio of higher margin products in attractive end markets. Through Eastman's advantaged asset position and expertise in applications development, management believes that the AM segment is well positioned for future growth. The advanced interlayers product lines, including acoustic PVB sheet and HUD interlayers, leverage Eastman's global presence to supply industry leading innovations to automotive and architectural end markets by collaborating with global and large regional customers. In the automotive end market, the performance films product line has industry leading technologies, recognized brands, and what management believes is one of the largest distribution and dealer networks which, when combined, position Eastman for further growth, particularly in leading automotive markets such as North America and Asia. The segment's product portfolio is aligned with underlying energy efficiency trends in both automotive and architectural markets. Additionally, increased demand for BPA-free products has created new opportunities for various copolyester applications.



The AM segment expects to continue to improve product mix from increased sales of premium products, including Tritan®copolyester, Visualize®material, Saflex®Q acoustic series and Saflex®HUD interlayer products, LLumar®, V-KOOL®, and SunTek®window and protective films.



The acquisition of Commonwealth Laminating & Coating, Inc. in December 2014 further expanded the AM segment's product portfolio and sales channel network in the diverse window film markets, enabled further manufacturing and distribution efficiencies, and added industry leading paint protection film technology to expand AM segment offerings in after-market automotive and protective film markets.



In 2017, the Company:

•advanced the continued success of Tritan®copolyester in the durable goods and health and wellness markets, supported by construction of an additional 60,000 metric ton expansion of Tritan®copolyester capacity at the Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing facility expected to be complete in early 2018 and fully operational in first half 2018;

•advanced growth and innovation of Saflex®and HUD acoustic interlayers used in the transportation and building and construction markets, supported by construction of a manufacturing facility for PVB resin at the Kuantan, Malaysia site which became fully operational in first quarter 2018;

•advanced growth and innovation of Treva™, a cellulose-based engineering bioplastic that offers high performance, sustainability, and design flexibility in applications that require complex and intricate designs and high safety requirements such as eyeglass frames, wearable electronics, and lenses; and

•strengthened growth in performance films in North America and China through improved sales channel, marketing, and commercial execution strategies and capabilities.





CHEMICAL INTERMEDIATES SEGMENT



Overview



The CI segment leverages large scale and vertical integration from the cellulose and acetyl, olefins, and alkylamines streams to support the Company's specialty operating segments with advantaged cost positions. The CI segment sells excess intermediates beyond the Company's internal specialty needs into markets such as industrial chemicals and processing, building and construction, health and wellness, and agrochemicals.In 2017, the CI segment had sales revenue of$2.7 billion,29percent of Eastman's total sales. Key technology platforms include acetyls, oxos, plasticizers, polyesters, and alkylamines.



The CI segment product lines benefit from competitive cost positions primarily resulting from the use of and access to lower cost raw materials, and the Company's scale, technology, and operational excellence. Examples include coal used in the production of cellulose and acetyl stream product lines, feedstocks used in the production of olefin derivative product lines such as oxo alcohols and plasticizers, and ammonia and methanol used to manufacture methylamines. The CI segment also provides superior reliability to customers through its backward integration into readily available raw materials, such as ethane, propane, and coal. In addition to a competitive cost position, the plasticizers business expects to continue to benefit from the growth in relative use of non-phthalate rather than phthalate plasticizers in the United States, Canada, and Europe.












Several CI segment product lines are affected by cyclicality, most notably olefin and acetyl-based products. See "Eastman Chemical Company General Information - Manufacturing Streams". This cyclicality is caused by periods of supply and demand imbalance, when either incremental capacity additions are not offset by corresponding increases in demand, or when demand exceeds existing supply. While management continues to take steps to reduce the impact of the trough of these cycles, future results are expected to occasionally fluctuate due to both general economic conditions and industry supply and demand.



Principal Products

ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-Use ApplicationsIntermediatesOxo alcoholsand derivativesAcetic acid andderivativesAcetic anhydrideEthyleneGlycol ethersEstersOlefin derivatives, acetyl derivatives, ethylene, commodity solventsLyondell Bassell,BASF SEDowDuPont Inc.OxeaBP plcCelanese CorporationLonzaFlint Hills Resourcespropaneethanepropylenecoalnatural gasparaxylenemetaxyleneindustrial chemicals and processingbuilding and construction (paint and coating applications, construction chemicals, building materials)pharmaceuticals and agriculturehealth and wellnesspackagingPlasticizersEastman 168®DOPBenzoflex®TXIB®Effusion™primary non-phthalate andphthalateplasticizersand a range ofniche non-phthalateplasticizersBASF SEExxon Mobil CorporationLG Chem, Ltd.Emerald Performance Materialspropanepropyleneparaxylenebuilding and construction (non-phthalateplasticizers used in interior surfaces)consumables (food packaging, packagingadhesives, and glove applications)health and wellness (medical devices)Functional AminesAlkylaminesmethylaminesand saltshigher aminesand solventsBASF SEChemoursU.S. AminesOxeamethanolammoniaacetoneethanolbutanolagrochemicalsenergyconsumableswater treatmentanimal nutritionindustrial intermediates



Percentage of Total Segment SalesProduct Lines201720162015Intermediates64%65%65%Plasticizers19%20%20%Functional Amines17%15%15%Total100%100%100%

Percentage of Total Segment SalesSales by Customer Location201720162015United States and Canada68%69%69%Asia Pacific14%12%12%Europe, Middle East, and Africa12%13%13%Latin America6%6%6%Total100%100%100%

See Exhibit 99.01 for CI segment revenue by end-use market.












Strategy



To maintain and enhance its status as a low-cost producer and optimize earnings, the CI segment continuously focuses on cost control, operational efficiency, and capacity utilization. This includes focusing on products used internally by other operating segments, thereby supporting growth in specialty product lines throughout the Company. Through the CI segment, the Company has leveraged the advantage of its highly integrated manufacturing facilities. For example, the Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing facility allows for the production of acetic anhydride and other acetyl derivatives from coal rather than natural gas or other petroleum feedstocks. At the Longview, Texas manufacturing facility, Eastman uses its proprietary oxo technology in one of the world's largest single-site, oxo butyraldehyde manufacturing facilities to produce a wide range of alcohols and other derivative products utilizing local propane and ethane supplies and purchased propylene. The Pace, Florida manufacturing facility, which uses ammonia and methanol feedstocks, is the largest methylamine production site in the world. These integrated facilities, combined with large scale production processes and a continuous focus on additional process improvements, allow the CI segment product lines to remain cost competitive and, for some products, cost-advantaged over competitors.



In 2017, to support the increased emphasis on specialty businesses and products, the Company continued to pursue strategic options to divest or otherwise monetize its excess ethylene capacity position and certain commodity olefin intermediates product lines, while retaining its cost-advantaged integrated position to propylene which supports specialty derivatives throughout the Company.



The Company is party to an agreement with Enterprise Products Partners L.P. to purchase propylene from a planned propane dehydrogenation plant to further improve the Company's long-term competitive cost position. The Company expects to begin purchasing propylene from this plant in first half 2018. Prior to beginning these purchases, the Company will continue to benefit from a propylene market contract with an advantaged cost position for purchased propylene.





FIBERS SEGMENT



Overview



In the Fibers segment, Eastman manufactures and sells Estron®acetate tow and Estrobond®triacetin plasticizers for use in filtration media, primarily cigarette filters; Estron®natural (undyed) and Chromspun®solution-dyed acetate yarns for use in apparel, home furnishings, and industrial fabrics; and cellulose acetate flake and acetyl raw materials for other acetate fiber producers.Eastman is one of the world's two largest suppliers of acetate tow and has been a market leader in the manufacture and sale of acetate tow since it began production in the early 1950s. The Company is the world's largest producer of acetate yarn and has been in this business for over 85 years. In 2017, the Fibers segment had sales revenue of$852 million,9percent of Eastman's total sales.



The largest 10 Fibers segment customers accounted for approximately 70 percent of the segment's 2017 sales revenue, and include multinational as well as regional cigarette producers, fabric manufacturers, and other acetate fiber producers.



The Company's long history and experience in fibers markets are reflected in the Fibers segment's operating expertise, both within the Company and in support of its customers' processes. The Fibers segment's knowledge of the industry and of customers' processes allows it to assist its customers in maximizing their processing efficiencies, promoting repeat sales, and developing mutually beneficial, long-term customer relationships.



The Company's fully integrated fibers manufacturing process employs unique technology that allows it to use a broad range of high-purity wood pulps for which the Company has dependable sources of supply.



Contributing to profitability in the Fibers segment is the limited number of competitors and significant barriers to entry. These barriers include, but are not limited to, high capital costs for integrated manufacturing facilities.



The Fibers segment's competitive strengths include a reputation for high-quality products, technical expertise, large scale vertically-integrated processes, reliability of supply, balanced internally produced acetate flake supply for Fibers products, a reputation for customer service excellence, and a customer base characterized by strategic long-term customer and end user relationships. The Company continues to capitalize and build on these strengths to further improve the strategic position of its Fibers segment. Despite continued challenging acetate tow market conditions, including additional industry capacity and lower capacity utilization rates, management expects continued strong Fibers segment cash flow.












Principal Products

ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-Use ApplicationsAcetate TowEstron®cellulose acetate towCelanese CorporationRhodia AcetowDaicel CorporationMitsubishi Rayon Co. Ltd.wood pulpmethanolhigh sulfur coalfiltration media (primarily cigarette filters)Acetyl Chemical ProductsEstrobond®triacetincellulose acetate flakeacetic acidacetic anhydrideJiangsu Ruijia Chemistry Co., Ltd.Polynt SPADaicel CorporationCelanese CorporationRhodia Acetowwood pulpmethanolhigh sulfur coalfiltration media (primarily cigarette filters)Acetate YarnEstron®Chromspun®Naia®Avra™Vestera™natural (undyed) acetate yarnsolution dyed acetate yarnnatural (undyed) polyester yarnUAB Dirbtinis PluostasIndustrias del Acetato de Celulosa S.A.Mitsubishi Rayon Co. Ltd.InvistaNan Ya Plastics Corporationwood pulpmethanolhigh sulfur coalpolyethyleneterephthalateconsumables (apparel, home furnishings, and industrial fabrics)health and wellness (medical tape)



Percentage of Total Segment SalesProduct Lines201720162015Acetate Tow77%80%78%Acetyl Chemical Products15%13%14%Acetate Yarn8%7%8%Total100%100%100%

Percentage of Total Segment SalesSales by Customer Location201720162015United States and Canada22%21%21%Asia Pacific37%44%49%Europe, Middle East, and Africa37%29%26%Latin America4%6%4%Total100%100%100%



Strategy



Management applies the innovation-driven growth model in the Fibers segment by leveraging its strong customer relationships and industry knowledge to maintain a leading industry position in the global market. The segment benefits from a state-of-the-art, world class, acetate flake production facility at the Kingsport, Tennessee site, which is supplied from Eastman's vertically integrated coal gasification facility and is the largest and most integrated acetate tow site in the world. Eastman's global acetate tow capacity is approximately 180,000 metric tons, not including the Company's participation in an acetate tow joint venture manufacturing facility in China. The Company supplies 100 percent of the acetate flake raw material to the China manufacturing joint venture from the Company's manufacturing facility in Kingsport, Tennessee, which the Company recognizes in sales revenue. The Company recognizes earnings in the joint venture through its equity investment, reported in "Other (income) charges, net" in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.












The Company makes use of its capabilities in fibers technology to maintain a strong focus on incremental product and process improvements, with the goals of meeting customers' evolving needs and further improving the segment's manufacturing process efficiencies.



The Fibers segment R&D efforts focus on serving existing customers, leveraging proprietary cellulose ester and spinning technology for differentiated application development in new markets, optimizing asset productivity, and working with suppliers to reduce costs. For acetate tow, these efforts are assisting customers in the effective use of the segment's products and customers' product development efforts. Beyond acetate tow, management is applying the innovation-driven growth model to leverage its fibers technology and expertise to focus on innovative growth in the textiles market. During 2017, the Company advanced innovation of new product offerings including Naia®, a yarn for the apparel market developed from Eastman's proprietary cellulose ester technology; Avra™, a family of fibers for the performance apparel market developed from a combination of Eastman proprietary spinning technology and polymer chemistry enabling unique fiber capabilities of size, shape, comfort, and performance; and Vestera™, a new wood pulp-based alternative for the nonwoven industry used in personal hygiene applications.



As a result of challenging market conditions for acetate tow, the Company closed its Workington, UK acetate tow manufacturing facility in 2015. Following an increase in acetate flake capacity at the Kingsport, Tennessee site in 2015, the Fibers segment could supply all its acetate tow and yarn spinning capacity from this low-cost flake asset. In order to fully utilize the increased capacity and reduce fixed costs, in June 2016, the Company sold its 50 percent interest in Primester, which manufactures cellulose acetate at the Company's Kingsport, Tennessee site.














EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY GENERAL INFORMATION



Financial Information About Geographic Areas



Eastman operates as a global business with approximately55percent of its 2017 sales revenue generated from outside the United States and Canada region. The United States and Canada region contains the highest concentration of the Company's long-lived assets with approximately 75 percent located in the United States. The Company has expanded its international manufacturing presence and is also able to transport products globally to meet demand. While all regions are affected by uncertainty and volatility in the global economy, the degree of the impact on the various regions is dependent on the mix of the Company's operating segments and products in each region. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report. For sales by customer location by business segments, see "Business Segments". For sales revenue by geographic areas, seeNote 19, "Segment Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Sales by Customer Location" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report. For long-lived assets by geographic areas, seeNote 19, "Segment Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.



Seasonality and Cyclicality



Eastman's earnings are typically higher in second and third quarters, and cash flows from operations are typically highest in the second half of the year due to seasonal demand based on general economic activity in the Company's key markets as described in "Business Segments". Results in the AM segment are typically weaker in fourth quarter due to seasonal downturns in key markets.



The coatings and inks additives product line of the AFP segment and the intermediates product line ofthe CI segment are impacted by the cyclicality of key end products and markets, while other operating segments and product lines are more sensitive to global economic conditions. Supply and demand dynamics determine profitability at different stages of business cycles and global economic conditions affect the length of each cycle.



Despite sensitivity to global economic conditions, the product portfolios of each operating segment are expected to continue to provide an overall stable foundation for earnings growth.



Sales, Marketing, and Distribution



Eastman markets and sells products primarily through a global marketing and sales organization which has a presence in the United States and approximately 30 other countries selling into more than 100 countries around the world. The Company focuses its market engagement on attractive niche markets, leveraging disruptive macro trends, and market activation throughout the value chain with both customers and downstream users. Eastman's strategy is to target industries and markets where the Company can leverage its application development expertise to develop product offerings to provide differentiated value that address current and future customer and market needs. The Company's strategic marketing approach and capabilities leverage the Company's insights about trends, markets, and customers to drive development of specialty products. Through a highly skilled and specialized sales force that is capable of providing differentiated product solutions, Eastman strives to be the preferred supplier in the Company's targeted markets.



The Company's products are also marketed through indirect channels, which include distributors, dealers, and contract representatives. Sales outside the United States tend to be made more frequently through distributors, dealers, and contract representatives than sales in the United States. The combination of direct and indirect sales channels, including sales online through its Customer Center website, allows Eastman to reliably serve customers throughout the world.



The Company's products are shipped to customers and to downstream users directly from Eastman manufacturing plants and distribution centers worldwide.












Sources and Availability of Raw Material and Energy



Eastman purchases approximately 75 percent of its key raw materials and energy through different contract mechanisms, generally of two to five years in initial duration with renewal or cancellation options for each party. Most of these agreements do not require the Company to purchase materials or energy if its operations are reduced or idle. The cost of raw materials and energy is generally based on market price at the time of purchase, and Eastman uses derivative financial instruments for certain of its key raw materials to mitigate the impact of market price fluctuations. Key raw materials include propane, cellulose, paraxylene, propylene, methanol, fatty alcohol, polyvinyl alcohol, and a wide variety of precursors for specialty organic chemicals. Key purchased energy sources include natural gas, coal, and electricity. The Company has multiple suppliers for most key raw materials and energy and uses quality management principles, such as the establishment of long-term relationships with suppliers and on-going performance assessments and benchmarking, as part of its supplier selection process. When appropriate, the Company purchases raw materials from a single source supplier to maximize quality and cost improvements, and has contingency plans to minimize the potential impact of any supply disruptions from single source suppliers.



While temporary shortages of raw materials and energy may occasionally occur, these items are generally sufficiently available to cover current and projected requirements. However, their continuous availability and cost are subject to unscheduled plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, domestic and world market conditions, changes in government regulation, natural disasters, war or other outbreak of hostilities or terrorism or other political factors, or breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure. Eastman's operations or products have in the past, and may in the future, be adversely affected by these factors. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Factors" in Part II Item 7 of this Annual Report. The Company's raw material and energy costs as a percent of total cost of operations were approximately 45 percent in 2017. For additional information about raw materials, see Exhibit 99.02 "Product and Raw Material Information" of this Annual Report.



Manufacturing Streams



Integral to Eastman's strategy for growth is leveraging its heritage of expertise and innovation in cellulose and acetyl, olefins, polyester, and alkylamine chemistries in key markets, including transportation, building and construction, consumables, filtration media, and agriculture. For each of these chemistries, Eastman has developed and acquired a combination of assets and technologies that are operated within four manufacturing "streams", combining scale and integration across multiple manufacturing units and sites as a competitive advantage.



•In the cellulose and acetyl stream, the Company begins with coal which is gasified with oxygen in its coal gasification facility. The resulting synthesis gas is converted into a number of chemicals including methanol, methyl acetate, acetic acid, and acetic anhydride. The Company's ability to use coal is a long-term raw material cost advantage. Cellulose derivative manufacturing at the Company begins with natural polymers, sourced from managed forests, which, when combined with acetyl and olefin chemicals, provide differentiated product lines. Cellulose and acetyl stream products include, but are not limited to, cellulose fibers, plastics, and esters. The major end markets for products from the cellulose and acetyl stream include coatings, displays, thermoplastics, and filtration media.



•In the olefins stream, the Company begins primarily with propane and ethane, which are "cracked" (the process whereby hydrocarbon molecules are broken down and rearranged) into the "olefin" chemicals ethylene and propylene in three cracking units at its facility in Longview, Texas. The Company purchases additional propylene for use at its Longview facility and other facilities outside the United States. Propylene derivative products are used in a variety of items such as paints and coatings, automotive safety glass, and non-phthalate plasticizers. Ethylene derivative products are converted for end uses in the food industry, health and beauty products, detergents, and automotive products. Historically, periodic additions of large blocks of capacity have caused profit margins of light olefins to expand and contract, resulting in "ethylene" or "olefins" cycles. The Company believes it is positioned to be less impacted by these cycles than more commodity-based producers due to its diverse derivatives products and focus on more specialty markets.



•In the polyester stream, the Company begins with purchased paraxylene and produces purified terephthalic acid ("PTA") and dimethyl terephthalate ("DMT") for polyesters and copolyesters. PTA or DMT is then reacted with various glycols, which the Company either makes or purchases, along with other raw materials (some of which the Company makes and are proprietary) to produce copolyesters. The Company believes that this backward integration of polyester manufacturing is a competitive advantage, giving Eastman a low-cost position, and a more reliable intermediate supply. In addition, Eastman can add specialty monomers to copolyesters to provide clear, tough, chemically resistant product characteristics. As a result, the Company's copolyesters effectively compete with materials such as polycarbonate and acrylic.












•In the alkylamines stream, the Company begins with ammonia and alcohols to produce methylamines and higher alkylamines, which can then be further reacted with other chemicals to produce alkylamine derivatives. The Company's alkylamines products are primarily used in agriculture, water treatment, consumables, animal nutrition, and oil and gas end markets. The Company is recognized as one of the leading global producers of alkylamines. Methylamines are manufactured by reacting methanol with ammonia in a catalytic reactor, purified by distillation and used as building blocks to produce downstream derivatives or sold externally to merchant customers. The term "higher alkylamines" refers to amines produced with alcohols (ethyl, n butyl, n propyl, isopropyl and cyclohexyl amines). The use of different alcohols results in the creation of different higher alkylamines which are used both internally to produce derivatives or sold externally to the merchant market.



The Company leverages its expertise and innovation in cellulose and acetyl, olefins, polyester, and alkylamine chemistries and technologies, to meet demand and create new uses and opportunities for the Company's products in key markets. Through integration and optimization across these streams, the Company is able to create unique and differentiated products that have a performance advantage over competitive materials.



Capital Expenditures



Capital expenditures were$649 million, $626 million, and $652 million in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Capital expenditures in 2017 were primarily for AFP and AM segments manufacturing expansions in Kuantan, Malaysia, an AM segment expansion of Tritan®copolyester capacity in Kingsport, Tennessee, an AFP segment expansion of specialty ketones manufacturing capacity in Kingsport, Tennessee, and site modernization projects in Longview, Texas. Capital expenditures in 2017 included $49 million for repair and reconstruction of the manufacturing facilities damaged in the previously reported fourth quarter 2017 coal gasification incident. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Overview" for a description of the coal gasification incident and its impact on financial results. The Company expects that 2018 capital spending will be approximately$550 millionprimarily for targeted growth initiatives and maintenance.



Employees



Eastman employs approximately 14,000 men and women worldwide. Approximately 10 percent of the total worldwide labor force is represented by collective labor agreements, mostly outside the United States.



Customers



Eastman has an extensive customer base and, while it is not dependent on any one customer, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect the Company until such business is replaced. The top 100 customers accounted for approximately 55 percent of the Company's 2017 sales revenue. No single customer accounted for 10 percent or more of the Company's consolidated sales revenue during 2017.



Intellectual Property and Trademarks



While Eastman's intellectual property portfolio is an important Company asset which it expands and vigorously protects globally through a combination of patents that expire at various times, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets, neither its business as a whole nor any particular operating segment is materially dependent upon any one particular patent, trademark, copyright, or trade secret. As a producer of a broad range of advanced materials, specialty additives, chemicals, and fibers, Eastman owns over 700 active United States patents and more than 1,600 active foreign patents, expiring at various times over several years, and owns over 5,000 active worldwide trademark applications and registrations. Eastman continues to actively protect its intellectual property. As the laws of many countries do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States, Eastman cannot ensure that it will be able to adequately protect its intellectual property assets outside the United States. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Factors" in Part II Item 7 of this Annual Report.



The Company pursues opportunities to license proprietary technology to third parties where it has determined competitive impact to its businesses will be minimal. These arrangements typically are structured to require payments at significant project milestones such as signing, completion of design, and start-up.












Research and Development



For 2017, 2016, and 2015, Eastman's R&D expenses totaled$215 million,$219 million, and$242 million, respectively. Management applies the innovation-driven growth model to leverage the Company's world class scalable technology platforms that provide a competitive advantage and the foundation for sustainable earnings growth. The Company's R&D strategy for sustainable growth through innovation includes multi-generational product development for specialty products, faster and more differentiated product development, and the creation of value through integration of multiple technology platforms. This strategy has been accelerated by recent enhancements of global differentiated application development capabilities that position Eastman as a strategic element of the Company's customers’ success within attractive niche markets. These enhanced AM segment growth in the automotive market through new solutions such as Saflex®and HUD acoustic interlayers and in the AFP segment's launch of Tetrashield®performance polyester resins for solutions in the transportation and food packaging markets.



The Company manages certain growth initiatives and costs at the corporate level, including certain R&D costs not allocated to any one operating segment. The Company uses a stage-gating process, which is a disciplined decision making framework for evaluating targeted opportunities, with a number of projects at various stages of development. As projects meet milestones, additional amounts are spent on those projects.The Company continues to explore and invest in R&D initiatives such as high performance materials and advanced cellulosics that are aligned with disruptive macro trends such as health and wellness, natural resource efficiency, an increasing middle class in emerging economies, and feeding a growing population. An example of such an initiative is the Eastman microfiber technology platform which leverages the Company's core competency in polyesters, spinning capability, and in-house application expertise for use in a wide range of applications including liquid and air filtration, high strength packaging in nonwovens, and performance apparel in textiles.In 2017, the Company shifted some R&D resources from process technology to application development with focus on new product introductions.



Environmental



Eastman's cash expenditures related to environmental protection and improvement were$257 million, $267 million, and $290 million, in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, and include operating costs associated with environmental protection equipment and facilities, engineering costs, and construction costs. These cash expenditures include environmental capital expenditures of approximately$38 million, $45 million, and $52 million in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.



The Company is subject to significant and complex laws, regulations, and legal requirements relating to the use, storage, handling, generation, transportation, emission, discharge, disposal, and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes in all of the countries in which it does business. These health, safety, and environmental considerations are a priority in the Company's planning for all existing and new products and processes. The Health, Safety, Environmental and Security Committee of Eastman's Board of Directors oversees the Company's policies and practices concerning health, safety, and the environment and its processes for complying with related laws and regulations, and monitors related matters.



The Company's policy is to operate its plants and facilities in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations such that it protects the environment and the health and safety of its employees and the public. The Company intends to continue to make expenditures for environmental protection and improvements in a timely manner consistent with its policies and with available technology. In some cases, applicable environmental regulations such as those adopted under the Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, and related actions of regulatory agencies determine the timing and amount of environmental costs incurred by the Company. Likewise, any new legislation or regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and energy, or the repeal of such legislation or regulations, could impact the timing and amount of environmental costs incurred by the Company.



The Company accrues environmental costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability at a contaminated site and the amount can be reasonably estimated. In some instances, the amount cannot be reasonably estimated due to insufficient information, particularly as to the nature and timing of future expenditures. In these cases, the liability is monitored until such time that sufficient information exists. With respect to a contaminated site, the amount accrued reflects liabilities expected to be paid out within approximately 30 years and the Company's assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations, and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs.












The Company does not currently expect near term environmental capital expenditures arising from requirements of environmental laws and regulations to materially impact the Company's planned level of annual capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.Other matters concerning health, safety, and the environment are discussed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II Item 7 and in Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies"; Note 12, "Environmental Matters and Asset Retirement Obligations"; and Note 21, "Reserve Rollforwards" to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.



Backlog



As of December 31, 2017, Eastman's backlog of firm sales orders represented less than 10 percent of the Company's total consolidated revenue for the year. These orders are primarily short-term and all orders are expected to be filled in the following year. The Company manages its inventory levels to control the backlog of products depending on customers' needs. In areas where the Company is the single source of supply, or competitive forces or customers' needs dictate, the Company may carry additional inventory to meet customer requirements.



Available Information - SEC Filings



Eastman makes available free of charge, in the "Investors - SEC Information" section of its Internet website (www.eastman.com), its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC.



The Company is required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.





