ITEM 1.  BUSINESS




CORPORATE OVERVIEW



Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company") is a global specialty chemical company that produces a broad range of advanced materials, chemicals, and fibers that are found in products people use every day. Eastman began business in 1920 for the purpose of producing chemicals for Eastman Kodak Company's photographic business and became a public company, incorporated in Delaware, on December 31, 1993. Eastman has 49 manufacturing sites and equity interests in four manufacturing joint ventures in 14 countries that supply products to customers throughout the world. The Company's headquarters and largest manufacturing site are located in Kingsport, Tennessee. For the periods reported, Eastman's businesses were managed and reported in five reporting segments: Additives & Functional Products ("AFP"), Adhesives & Plasticizers ("A&P"), Advanced Materials ("AM"), Fibers, and Specialty Fluids & Intermediates ("SFI"). See "Business Segments".



Eastman is focused on consistent earnings growth through a market-driven approach that takes advantage of the Company's existing technology platforms, global market and manufacturing presence, and leading positions in key end markets such as transportation, building and construction, and consumables. Eastman management believes that the Company's end-market diversity is a source of strength, and that many of the markets into which the Company’s products are sold are benefiting from longer-term global trends such as energy efficiency, a rising middle class in emerging economies, and an increased focus on health and wellness. Management believes that these trends, combined with the diversity of the Company's end markets, facilitate more consistent demand for the Company's products over time.



The Company completed four acquisitions in 2014. On June 2, 2014, the Company acquired BP plc's global aviation turbine engine oil business (the "aviation turbine oil business"). On August 6, 2014, the Company acquired Knowlton Technologies, LLC ("Knowlton"), a leader in the design, accelerated prototyping, and manufacture of wet-laid nonwovens in filtration, friction, and custom designed composite webs. On December 5, 2014, Eastman acquired Taminco Corporation ("Taminco"), a global specialty chemical company. On December 11, 2014 Eastman acquired Commonwealth Laminating & Coating, Inc. ("Commonwealth"), a specialty films business. Results of the acquired businesses are included in Eastman results as of the date of acquisitions. For additional information on these acquisitions see Note 2, "Acquisitions" to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Annual Report"). As required by Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") rules, certain pro forma combined financial information giving effect to the acquisition of Taminco is presented in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed with the SEC on February 19, 2015.



On July 2, 2012, the Company acquired Solutia Inc. ("Solutia"), a global leader in performance materials and specialty chemicals.



In 2015, the Company reported sales revenue of$9.6 billion, operating earnings of$1.4 billion, and earnings from continuing operations of$848 million. Earnings per diluted share from continuing operations were$5.66. Asset impairments and restructuring charges and acquisition-related costs included in operating earnings were $183 millionand $35 million, respectively. Additionally, operating earnings included a mark-to-market ("MTM") pension and other postretirement benefits plans actuarial net loss of $115 million.





Business Strategy



Eastman's objective is to be an outperforming specialty chemical company with consistent earnings growth and strong cash flow. The Company sells differentiated products into diverse markets and geographic regions. Eastman works with customers to meet their needs in existing and new markets through development of innovative products and technologies. Management believes that the Company can deliver consistent financial results by leveraging the Company's world class technology platforms, improving product mix through innovation and increasing emphasis on specialty businesses and products, sustaining and expanding advantaged market positions and leveraging advantaged cost positions. Consistently increasing earnings are expected to result from both organic (internal) growth initiatives and strategic inorganic (external growth through acquisitions complementary or additive to existing products and joint ventures) initiatives.



In 2015, the Company progressed on both organic growth initiatives and integration of recent acquisitions, including:



•Completing integration of the Taminco acquisition, which:

•strengthens Eastman's presence in attractive niche markets benefiting from megatrends,

•leverages a world-class technology platform underpinned by a business model similar to Eastman's,

•resulted in expected revenue and cost synergies, and

•accelerated revenue and earnings growth and growth expectations.










•In the AFP segment:

•Retrofitting an existing manufacturing facility in Germany and beginning construction of a 40,000 metric ton expansion of the Crystex®insoluble sulfur rubber additives manufacturing facility in Kuantan, Malaysia, expected to be operational in 2017. These actions are expected to allow the Company to capitalize on recent enhancements of technology for the manufacture of Crystex®insoluble sulfur by improving the Company's cost position and enhancing product characteristics.

•Commercializing performance polyester resins based on monomer technology. These polyester resins provide a combination of performance and sustainability, particularly for the automotive coatings market.

•In the AM segment:

•Construction of a manufacturing facility for PVB Resin at the Kuantan, Malaysia site expected to be operational in 2017 to support growth of transportation and building and construction markets particularly in the Asia Pacific region.

•Integrating the acquired Commonwealth business to strengthen the window film product portfolio, add industry leading protective film technology, and increase scale cost efficiencies.

•In the SFI segment completing a Therminol®heat transfer fluid capacity expansion in Newport, Wales in fourth quarter 2015 to meet expected long-term demand in the industrial chemicals and processing market.

•Completing the integration of Knowlton wet-laid nonwovens acquisition, which accelerates the innovation cycle for the Eastman microfibers technology platform.



In January 2016, the Company announced that as part of its strategy to increase emphasis on specialty businesses and products:



•it is pursuing strategic options to divest or otherwise monetize its excess ethylene capacity position and certain commodity olefin intermediates product lines, while retaining its cost-advantaged integrated position to propylene which supports specialty derivatives throughout the Company, and

•it has changed its organizational and management structure following completion of the integration of recently acquired businesses to better align similar strategies and business models, resulting in the Company's products and operations being managed and reported in four operating segments -- AFP,  AM, Fibers, and Chemical Intermediates ("CI") -- beginning first quarter 2016 .



The Company benefits from proprietary technologies and advantaged feedstocks, and is focusing on sustainability as a competitive strength for growth. Eastman has developed new products and technologies that enable customers' development and sales of sustainable products. Examples of Eastman’s leading position in providing sustainable solutions are Eastman Tritan®copolyester, Saflex®acoustic and acoustic head up displays (“HUD”), Eastman Impera®high performance resins for tires, and Eastman’s Visualize®materials for optical compensation films in liquid crystal displays (“LCDs”).



Management is actively pursuing additional opportunities to leverage world class technology platforms for continued near-term and long-term growth both sustaining our leadership in existing markets and expanding into new markets. Examples of these technologies include cellulose esters for tires and Eastman microfibers technology.





Financial Strategy



In addition to managing its businesses and growth initiatives, the Company remains committed to maintaining a strong financial position with appropriate financial flexibility and liquidity. Eastman management believes maintaining a financial profile that supports an investment grade credit rating is important to its long-term strategic and financial flexibility. The Company employs a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation and deployment of cash. The priorities for uses of available cash include payment of the quarterly cash dividend to stockholders, repayment of debt, funding targeted growth initiatives, and repurchasing shares. Management expects that the combination of strong cash flow generation and liquidity and a solid balance sheet will continue to provide flexibility to pursue organic and inorganic growth.














BUSINESS SEGMENTS



For the periods reported, the Company's products and operations were managed and reported in five reporting segments: Additives & Functional Products ("AFP"), Adhesives & Plasticizers ("A&P"), Advanced Materials ("AM"), Fibers, and Specialty Fluids & Intermediates ("SFI"). This organizational structure was based on the management of the strategies, operating models, and sales channels that the various businesses employed. Sales revenue and research and development ("R&D") costs, certain components of pension and other postretirement benefits gains, losses, and costs, and other expenses and income not identifiable to an operating segment are not included in segment operating results for any of the periods presented and are shown as "other" sales revenue and "other" operating earnings (loss). For identification of manufacturing sites see Item 2 "Properties" in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. For additional information concerning the Company's operating segments, see Note20, "Segment Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.



As a result of changes in the Company's organizational structure and management, beginning first quarter 2016, the Company's products and operations will be managed and reported in four operating segments: AFP, AM, Fibers, and Chemical Intermediates ("CI"). The new structure supports the Company's strategy to transform towards a specialty portfolio by better aligning similar businesses in a more streamlined structure. As a result of the re-segmentation, the adhesives resins product lines of the A&P segment will be part of the AFP segment, the plasticizers product lines of the A&P segment will be part of the CI segment. Further, specialty fluids, animal nutrition, and food ingredients products are moved from the SFI segment to the AFP segment, and distribution solvents and ethyl acetate products are moved from the AFP segment to the CI segment. Segment results will be disclosed under the new basis of segmentation beginning first quarter of 2016. The Company will publicly disclose historical segment results on the new segment basis on a Current Report on Form 8-K filing prior to public disclosure of first quarter 2016 financial results.





ADDITIVES & FUNCTIONAL PRODUCTS SEGMENT



•Overview



In the AFP segment, the Company manufactures chemicals for products in the coatings, tires, consumables, animal nutrition, crop protection, and energy markets. In 2015, the AFP segment had sales revenue of$2.4 billion,25percent of Eastman's total sales. Key technology platforms in this segment are propylene derivatives, alkylamine derivatives, insoluble sulfur, cellulose esters, polyester polymers, and hydrocarbon resins.



AFP sales growth is typically similar to or slightly above general economic growth due to the segment’s sales to diversified end markets such as coatings, tires, consumables, and animal nutrition. The segment is focused on high-value additives that provide critical functionality but which comprise a small percentage of total customer product cost. The segment principally competes on the unique performance characteristics of its products and through leveraging its strong customer base and long-standing customer relationships to promote substantial recurring business and product development. Within each segment product market, the Company may compete with other smaller, regionally focused companies that may have advantages based upon location, local market knowledge, manufacturing strength in a specific product, or other similar factors.












•Principal Products





ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-UseApplications

Coatings and Other Formulated Products

Polymers•cellulosics•polyesters•polyolefinspaint additives and specialty polymersSichuan Nitrocell CorporationCompanhia Nitro Química BrasileiraThe Dow Chemical CompanyEvonik Industries AGwood pulppropylenepropaneCoatings IndustryTransportation (OEM and refinish coatings)Consumer durables (wood and industrial coatings applications)Other Formulated ProductsConsumables (graphic arts and inks)Health and wellness (pharmaceutical and consumables)

Additives and Solvents•Texanol®•ketones•esters•glycol ethers•  alcoholsolvents•  ethyl acetatespecialty coalescents, specialty solvents, and commodity solventsBASF SEThe Dow Chemical CompanypropanepropyleneethaneCoatings IndustryBuilding and construction (architectural coatings)Transportation (OEM) and refinish coatingsConsumer durables (industrial coatings applications)Other Formulated ProductsDistribution solvents (olefin derived solvents sold through distribution)Consumables (graphic arts, cleaners, packaging)Industrial chemicals (process solvents and intermediates)

Tires

Crystex®insoluble sulfurrubber additiveOriental Carbon & Chemicals LimitedShikoku Chemicals Corporationnaphthenic process oilsulfurTransportation (tire manufacturing)Other rubber products (such as hoses,belts, seals, and footwear)

Santoflex®antidegradant rubber additiveJiangsu Sinorgchem Technology Co, Ltd.Korea Kumho Petrochemical Co. Ltd.Lanxess AGnitrobenzeneanilinemethyl isobutylketoneTransportation (tire manufacturing)Other rubber products (such as hoses,belts, seals, and footwear)

Piccotac®Kristalex®hydrocarbon resinsCray Valley Hydrocarbon Specialty ChemicalsExxon Mobil CorporationKolon IndustriesIncorporatedalpha methylstyrenepiperylenestyreneTransportation (tire manufacturing)














ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-UseApplicationsSpecialty AminesSpecialty     intermediatesPerformanceproductsFormic acid solutionsamine-derivative-based building blocksbranded amine based products for niche applicationsformic-acid based solutionsBASF SEBASF SEThe Dow Chemical CompanyHuntsman CorporationBASF SEPerstorpLuxi Chemical GroupFeicheng AcidChemicalsethylene oxide ammonia alcoholsethyl oxidebutylaminessulfuric acidformic acidConsumablesWater treatmentCoatingsAnimal nutritionOil and gasMetal working fluidsAnimal nutritionDe-icingCrop ProtectionAlkylaminederivativesmetam based soil fumigantsthiram and ziram based fungicidesplant growth regulatorThe Dow Chemical CompanyArgo-Kanesho Co LtdBayerBASF SEalkylamines CS2caustic sodaAgricultureCrop protection



Percentage of Total Segment SalesProduct Lines201520142013Coatings and Other Formulated Products46%66%66%Tires22%31%34%Specialty Amines and Crop Protection32%3%-



•Strategy



A key element of the AFP segment's strategy is to leverage proprietary technologies for the continued development of innovative product offerings and to focus growth efforts on expanding end markets such as coatings, tires, consumables, animal nutrition, crop protection, and energy. Eastman management believes that the ability to leverage the AFP segment's research, application development, and production capabilities across multiple markets makes the segment uniquely positioned to meet evolving needs to improve the quality and performance of its customers' products. For example, performance labeling regulations in various parts of the world and competitive pressure favoring performance over cost are causing tire manufacturers to simultaneously improve conflicting tire attributes. The use of Eastman’s tire additives technology helps tire manufacturers to overcome common compromises often observed between wet grip and rolling resistance. In order to address identified market needs, the Company is also developing new technologies such as polyesters for coatings, sustainable solvents, cellulose esters for tires, and hydrocarbon resins for tires.



The Company has begun construction of a 40,000 metric ton expansion of the Crystex®insoluble sulfur rubber additives manufacturing facility in Kuantan, Malaysia, expected to be operational in 2017, and retrofitted an existing manufacturing facility in Germany that became operational in the second half of 2015. These actions are expected to capitalize on recent enhancements of technology for the manufacture of Crystex®insoluble sulfur by improving the Company's cost position and enhancing product characteristics.



The Company's global manufacturing presence is a key element of the AFP segment's growth strategy. For example, the segment expects to capitalize on industrial growth in Asia from its planned manufacturing capacity expansion in Malaysia and cellulose ester products sourced from our low cost acetyl manufacturing stream in North America.














ADHESIVES & PLASTICIZERS SEGMENT



•Overview



The adhesives resins and plasticizers businesses focus on producing intermediate chemicals, rather than finished products, and developing long-term, strategic relationships to enable customers' growth in their end markets. In 2015, the A&P segment had sales revenue of$1.2 billion,12percent of Eastman's total sales. Key adhesives resins and plasticizers technology platforms are the integrated olefins and polyesters platforms and the hydrocarbon resins platform.





•Principal Products

ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-UseApplicationsAdhesives ResinsPiccotac®Regalite®Eastotac®Eastoflex®hydrocarbon resinsand rosin resinsmainly for hot-meltand pressuresensitive adhesivesExxon Mobil CorporationKolon Industries, Inc.C9 resin oilpiperylenegum rosinConsumables (resins used in hygiene and packaging adhesives)Building and construction (resins for construction adhesives and interior flooring)PlasticizersEastman 168®Eastman®DOPBenzoflex®Eastman TXIB®Effusion™primary non-phthalate andphthalateplasticizersand a range ofniche non-phthalateplasticizersBASF SEExxon Mobil CorporationLG Chem, Ltd.Emerald Performance MaterialspropanepropyleneparaxyleneBuilding and construction (non-phthalate plasticizers used in interior surfaces)Consumables (food packaging, packaging adhesives, and glove applications)Health and wellness (medical devices)



Percentage of Total Segment SalesProduct Lines201520142013Adhesives Resins54%53%52%Plasticizers46%47%48%














•Strategy



A key element of the strategy for growth in the adhesives resins and plasticizers product lines is to leverage Eastman's leading positions and market insights in high-growth hygiene, packaging, durables, and non-phthalate plasticizer applications, with a focus on developing and accessing markets with high-growth potential for the Company's products. Key growth markets are consumables such as hygiene and packaging and flexible plastic products used in sensitive applications. For hygiene and packaging applications, Eastman's strategy is to enhance customer options for hot-melt packaging adhesives and to enable customers to meet changing and growing needs in hygiene products. For flexible plastic products used in sensitive applications, Eastman's strategy is to develop and provide sustainable primary and niche non-phthalate alternatives to ortho-phthalate plasticizers traditionally used in flooring, toys, child care articles, medical packaging and devices, and food contact items. The regional focus of products in the segment allows Eastman to leverage its leading cost position in North America and Europe for plasticizers and to serve global markets for adhesives.



Eastman management believes that the ability to leverage strong technical capabilities across multiple markets makes the Company uniquely positioned to meet evolving market needs and support adoption of Eastman products in new or additional customer formulations. Innovation efforts are focused on improving process efficiency and feedstock flexibility enabling low cost capacity additions, developing products addressing increasing customer quality needs for adhesives, and further enabling customer switching to non-phthalate plasticizers.



The Company has expanded its Eastman 168®non-phthalate plasticizers manufacturing capacity at its Texas City, Texas site to meet expected plasticizer demand growth and has options to further expand this capacity.



The Company is planning to expand capacity at its existing sites to support expected demand growth for its adhesives resins products in hygiene and packaging applications. In addition, the Company and Sinopec Yangzi Petrochemical Company Limited continue to evaluate the timing of a joint project to build a hydrogenated hydrocarbons resin plant in Nanjing, China.





ADVANCED MATERIALS SEGMENT



•Overview



In the AM segment, the Company produces and markets its polymers, films, and plastics with differentiated performance properties for value-added end uses in transportation, consumables, building and construction, durable goods, and health and wellness products. In 2015, the AM segment had sales revenue of$2.4 billion,25percent of Eastman's total sales. Key technology platforms for this segment include cellulose esters, polyesters, polyvinyl butyral (“PVB”) films, and polyester films.



Eastman has strong technical and market development capabilities that enable the segment to modify its polymers, films, and plastics to control and customize their final properties for development of new applications with enhanced functionality. Tritan®copolyesters specialty plastics are a leading solution for food contact applications due to performance and processing attributes and Bisphenol A (“BPA”) free properties. The Saflex Q®series product line is a leading solution for sound reduction in the cabin of an automobile. The Company maintains what management believes is a leading solar control technology position in the window film market through the use of high performance sputter coatings which enhance solar heat rejection while maintaining superior optical properties. The segment principally competes on differentiated technology and application development capabilities. Management believes the AM segment's competitive advantages also include long-term customer relationships, vertical integration and scale in manufacturing, and leading market positions.












•Principal Products

ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-UseApplicationsSpecialty PlasticsEastar®copolyestersEastman Tritan®copolyesterEastman Visualize®MaterialEastman Embrace®copolyesterEastman Spectar®copolyesterEastman Aspira™family of resinsFlexvue®specialty copolyesters and cellulose estersConvestroTrinseoEvonik Industries AGSaudi Basic Industries CorporationMitsubishi Chemical CorporationS.K. Chemical IndustriesSichuan Push Acetati Company LimitedDaicel Chemical Industries Ltdparaxyleneethylene glycolcelluloseConsumables (Specialty copolyesters used in consumer packaging, consumables and cosmetics packaging, in-store fixtures and displays)Durable goods (consumer housewares and appliances)Health and wellness (medical)Electronics (displays)InterlayersSaflex®Saflex®Q SeriesPVB sheetspecialty PVB     intermediatesSekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.Kuraray Co., Ltdpolyvinyl alcoholvinyl acetate monomerbutyraldehyde2-ethyl hexanolethanolTransportation (automotive safety glass, automotive acoustic glass, and head up displaysBuilding and construction (PVB forarchitectural interlayers)Performance FilmsLLumar®SunTek®V-KOOL®Gila®window film and protective filmproducts foraftermarketapplied films3M CompanySaint-Gobain S.A.Garware ChemicalsLimitedpolyethylene terephthalate filmTransportation (automotive after-market window film and paint protection film)Building and construction (residentialand commercial window films)



Percentage of Total Segment SalesProduct Lines201520142013Specialty Plastics51%54%53%Interlayers33%34%34%Performance Films16%12%13%



•Strategy



Management believes that the segment has significant opportunities to leverage technology platforms into new products and applications, accelerate its growth, and further leverage its manufacturing capacity. The segment is working to expand its portfolio of higher margin products in attractive end markets. Through Eastman's advantaged asset position and expertise in applications development, management believes that the AM segment is well positioned for future growth. An example is Eastman Tritan

®

copolyester used in small appliance applications where the combination of toughness, durability and design flexibility provides clear advantages over glass or lower performance polymer materials. The interlayers product lines, including head up displays ("HUD") and acoustic PVB sheet, leverage Eastman's global presence to deliver industry leading innovations to automotive and architectural end markets by collaborating with global and large regional customers. In the automotive end market, the performance films product line has industry leading technologies, recognized brands, and what management believes is one of the largest distribution and dealer networks which, when combined, position Eastman for further growth, particularly in leading automotive markets such as North America and Asia. The segment’s product portfolio is aligned with underlying energy efficiency trends in both automotive and architectural markets. Additionally, increased demand for BPA-free products has created new opportunities for various copolyester applications.












The AM segment expects to continue to improve product mix from increased sales of premium products, including Eastman Tritan®copolyester, Eastman Visualize®Material, interlayers with acoustic properties, and LLumar®, V-KOOL®, and SunTek®window films and protective films.



The acquisition of Commonwealth in December 2014 further expanded the AM segment's product portfolio and channel network in the diverse window film markets, enables further manufacturing and distribution efficiencies, and added industry leading paint protection film technology to expand AM segment offerings in after-market automotive and protective film markets.



The Company is continuing an additional 60,000 metric ton expansion of Eastman Tritan®copolyester capacity at the Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing facility to meet expected future demand.



Construction of a manufacturing facility for PVB Resin at the Kuantan, Malaysia site is expected to be operational in 2017 to support growth of the AM segment’s transportation and building and construction markets, particularly in the Asia Pacific region.





FIBERS SEGMENT



•Overview



In the Fibers segment, Eastman manufactures and sells Estron®acetate tow and Estrobond®triacetin plasticizers for use primarily in the manufacture of cigarette filters; Estron®natural (undyed) and Chromspun®solution-dyed acetate yarns for use in apparel, home furnishings, and industrial fabrics; and cellulose acetate flake and acetyl raw materials for other acetate fiber producers. Eastman is one of the world's two largest suppliers of acetate tow and has been a market leader in the manufacture and sale of acetate tow since it began production in the early 1950s. The Company is the world's largest producer of acetate yarn and has been in this business for over 75 years. In 2015, the Fibers segment had sales revenue of$1.2 billion,13percent of Eastman's total sales.



Eastman's Fibers segment customers are located in all regions of the world, with approximately 50 percent of 2015 revenues in Asia Pacific. The largest 13 Fibers segment customers account for 80 percent of the segment's 2015 sales revenue, and include multinational as well as regional cigarette producers, fabric manufacturers, and other acetate fiber producers. Sales prices for a significant portion of the Fibers segment's products are typically negotiated on an annual basis.



The Company's long history and experience in the fibers markets are reflected in the Fibers segment's operating expertise, both within the Company and in support of its customers' processes. The Fibers segment's knowledge of the industry and of customers' processes allows it to assist its customers in maximizing their processing efficiencies, promoting repeat sales, and mutually beneficial, long-term customer relationships.



The Company's fully integrated fiber manufacturing process employs unique technology that allows it to use a broad range of high-purity wood pulps for which the Company has dependable sources of supply.



Contributing to profitability in the Fibers segment is the limited number of competitors, high industry capacity utilization, and significant barriers to entry. These barriers include, but are not limited to, high capital costs for integrated manufacturing facilities.



The Fibers segment's competitive strengths include a reputation for high-quality products, technical expertise, large scale vertically-integrated processes, reliability of supply, acetate flake supply in excess of internal needs, a reputation for customer service excellence, and a customer base characterized by strategic long-term customer relationships. The Company intends to continue to capitalize and build on these strengths to improve the strategic position of its Fibers segment. The principal methods of competition include maintaining the Company's large-scale vertically integrated manufacturing process from acetyl raw materials, reliability of supply, product quality, and sustaining long-term customer relationships. Management expects continued strong Fibers segment cash flow and earnings despite continued challenging acetate tow market conditions.












•Principal Products

ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-UseApplicationsAcetate TowEstron®cellulose acetate towCelanese CorporationSolvay S.A.Daicel CorporationMitsubishi Rayon Co. Ltd.wood pulpmethanolhigh sulfur coalTobacco (manufacture of cigarette filters)Acetate YarnEstron®Chromspun®Cosilva™natural (undyed) acetate yarnsolution dyed acetate yarnUAB Dirbtinis PluostasIndustrias del Acetato de Celulosa S.A.Mitsubishi Rayon Co. Ltd.wood pulpmethanolhigh sulfur coalConsumables (apparel, home furnishings, and industrial fabrics)Health and wellness (medical tape)Acetyl Chemical ProductsEstrobond®triacetincellulose diacetate flakeacetic acidacetic anhydrideJiangsu Ruijia Chemistry Co., Ltd.Polynt SPADaicel CorporationCelanese CorporationSolvay S.A.wood pulpmethanolhigh sulfur coalTobacco (manufacture of cigarette filters)



Percentage of Total Segment SalesProduct Lines201520142013Acetate Tow78%79%83%Acetate Yarn and Acetyl Chemical Products22%21%17%



•Strategy



In the Fibers segment, Eastman continues to leverage its strong customer relationships and industry knowledge to maintain a leading industry position in the global market. Eastman’s Fibers segment benefits from a state-of-the-art, world class, acetate flake production facility at the Kingsport, Tennessee site which is supplied from Eastman’s vertically integrated coal gasification facility. Eastman's total global acetate tow capacity is approximately 186,000 metric tons, not including the Company’s participation in an acetate tow joint venture manufacturing facility in China. The Company also benefits from the Kingsport tow production facility being the largest and most integrated acetate tow site in the world. The Company supplies 100 percent of the acetate flake raw material to the joint venture from the Company’s manufacturing facility in Kingsport, which the Company recognizes in sales revenue. The Company recognizes earnings in the joint venture through its equity investment, reported in "Other (income) charges, net" in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.



The Company intends to continue to make use of its capabilities in fibers technology to maintain a strong focus on incremental product and process improvements, with the goals of meeting customers' evolving needs and improving the segment's manufacturing process efficiencies.



The Company's Fibers segment research and development efforts focus on process and product improvements, as well as cost reduction, with the objectives of increasing sales and reducing costs. The Fibers segment also conducts research to assist acetate tow customers in the effective use of the segment's products and in the customers' product development efforts.



As a result of challenging market conditions for acetate tow, including additional industry capacity, the Company closed its Workington, U.K. acetate tow manufacturing facility in 2015.














SPECIALTY FLUIDS & INTERMEDIATES SEGMENT



•Overview



The Company leverages large scale and vertical integration from the acetyl, olefins, and alkylamine streams and proprietary manufacturing technology for specialty fluids to manufacture diversified products that are sold externally for use in markets such as industrial chemicals and processing, building and construction, health and wellness, and agrochemicals. Certain products are also used internally by other segments of the Company. Management believes it is well-positioned in key markets for acetyl chemical intermediates, olefin derivatives, specialty fluids, and alkylamines due to its competitive cost position, scale, technology, and reliability of supply. In 2015, the SFI segment had sales revenue of$2.4 billion,25percent of the Company's total sales. Key technology platforms include acetyls, oxos, benzenes and derivatives, polyesters and alkylamines.



Historically, the intermediates product line's competitive cost position has been primarily due to use of and access to lower cost raw materials, including natural gas, which are used in the production of acetyl stream products, and olefin feedstocks which are used in the production of olefin derivative products. Some of the product line’s products are affected by the olefins cycle. See "Eastman Chemical Company General Information - Manufacturing Streams" in this "Part I - Item 1. Business." This cyclicality is caused by periods of supply and demand imbalance, either when incremental capacity additions are not offset by corresponding increases in demand or when demand exceeds existing supply. While management continues to take steps to reduce the impact of the trough of the olefins cycle, future intermediates products results are expected to continue to fluctuate from time to time due both to general economic conditions and olefins supply and demand.



Functional amines products are alkylamines sold to external customers as an integral element in their chemical processes for the production of formulated products sold in a variety of end-markets. Functional amines products are also used internally as building blocks for production of downstream derivatives for our specialty amines and crop protection businesses.



The specialty fluids product line includes heat transfer and aviation fluids products. The heat transfer fluids product line offers a portfolio of high temperature synthetic aromatic fluids used primarily for indirect heat transfer in many chemical and manufacturing processes including solar energy market applications. Due to timing of customer project completions, heat transfer fluids product line revenues and earnings fluctuate from period to period. The aviation fluids product line includes brands that sell into critical applications in the airline industry. Aviation fluids product revenues have historically been stable and influenced by general consumer demand and product performance in global fleet engines.
























•Principal Products

ProductDescriptionPrincipalCompetitorsKey RawMaterialsEnd-UseApplicationsChemical Intermediatesoxo alcoholsand derivativesacetic acid andderivativesacetic anhydridechemical intermediatesBASF SEThe Dow Chemical CompanyOxeaBP plcCelanese CorporationLonzapropaneethanepropylenecoalacetic acidnatural gasIndustrial chemicals and processingBuilding and construction (paint/coating applications, construction chemicals, building materials)Pharmaceuticals and agricultureHealth and wellnessOther Intermediatesethyleneoxo alcoholspolymerintermediatesacetic acidolefin, chemicalintermediates, andpolymerintermediatesLyondellBasell IndustriesCelanese CorporationBP plcBASF SEFlint Hill Resourcespropaneethanepropylenecoalnatural gasparaxylenemetaxyleneBuilding and construction (paint/coating applications, construction chemicals, building materials)Industrial chemicals and processingPackagingFunctional Aminesalkylaminesmethylaminesand saltshigher aminesand solventsBASF SEChemoursU.S. AminesOxeamethanolammoniaacetoneethanolbutanolAgrochemicals and various industrial intermediatesEnergyConsumablesWater treatmentAnimal nutritionSpecialty FluidsTherminol®Eastman Turbo OilsSkydrol®Eastman SkyKleen®heat transfer andaviation fluidsThe Dow Chemical CompanyExxon MobilCorporationbenzenephosphorousneo-polyol estersIndustrial chemicals and processing (heat transfer fluids for chemical processes)Renewable energyCommercial aviation





Percentage of Total Segment SalesProduct Lines201520142013Chemical Intermediates42%50%48%Other Intermediates27%35%39%Functional Amines18%1%—%Specialty Fluids13%14%13%














•Strategy





A key focus for Eastman is to continue to develop and access markets with high-growth potential for the Company's specialty fluids products. A major long-term goal is to expand volumes in growth markets for Therminol®heat transfer fluids through market development efforts. The Therminol®heat transfer fluid capacity expansion in Newport, Wales in 2015 supports expected long-term demand in the industrial chemicals and processing market for SFI products. Eastman Aviation fluids including Eastman Turbo Oils, Eastman Skydrol®aviation hydraulic fluids, and Eastman SkyKleen®aviation solvents provide industry-leading products, technical resources, support, and service to the global aviation industry.



In January 2016, the Company announced that as part of its strategy to increase emphasis on specialty businesses and products it is pursuing strategic options to divest or otherwise monetize its excess ethylene capacity position and certain commodity olefin intermediates product lines, while retaining its cost-advantaged integrated position to propylene which supports specialty derivatives throughout the Company.



In 2012, the Company entered into an agreement with Enterprise Products Partners L.P. to purchase propylene from a planned propane dehydrogenation plant expected to further improve the Company's competitive cost position compared to purchasing olefins in the North American market beginning in 2017. Prior to completion of the plant, the Company continues to benefit from a propylene market contract with an advantaged cost position for purchased propylene. The Company continues to optimize the ethane content in its olefin cracking units feedstock mix based on relative market prices of olefins and olefins feedstocks.





CORPORATE INITIATIVES



In addition to its business segments, the Company manages certain growth initiatives and costs at the corporate level, including certain research and development costs not allocated to any one operating segment. The Company uses a stage-gating process, which is a disciplined decision making framework for evaluating targeted opportunities, with a number of projects at various stages of development. As projects meet milestones, additional investment is committed to those projects. The Company continues to explore and invest in research and development initiatives that are aligned with macro trends in sustainability, consumerism, and energy efficiency such as high performance materials, advanced cellulosics, and reduced environmental impact. An example of such an initiative is the Eastman microfiber technology platform which leverages the Company's core competency in polyesters, spinning capability, and in-house application expertise, for use in a wide range of applications including liquid and air filtration, high strength packaging in nonwovens, and performance apparel in textiles. The acquisition of Knowlton accelerates the innovation cycle for the Eastman microfibers technology platform.














REGIONAL BUSINESS OVERVIEW



Eastman operates as a global business with approximately55percent of its sales generated from outside the United States and Canada region in 2015. The Company has expanded its international manufacturing presence, and the Company is also able to transport products globally to meet demand. While all regions continue to be affected by the uncertainty in the global economy, the degree of the impact on the various regions is dependent on the mix of the Company's segments and products in each region. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report.



In 2015, the regional revenue by segment was as follows:

United States and CanadaAsia PacificEurope, Middle East, and AfricaLatin AmericaAdditives & Functional Products21%22%31%31%Adhesives & Plasticizers16%5%15%13%Advanced Materials21%32%26%24%Fibers6%25%13%9%Specialty Fluids & Intermediates36%16%15%23%TOTAL100%100%100%100%



The United States and Canada region contains the highest concentration of the Company's long-lived assets with approximately 75 percent located in the United States. Management believes that the location of these manufacturing facilities provides the Company with an advantaged cost position for the Company's domestic customers, particularly for commodity and bulk products. The SFI segment accounted for 36 percent of the region's revenue, as the segment is well-positioned in this region's market for most of its major products, including acetic acid and acetic anhydride, although revenues in the region can be volatile due to the dependence of this segment's selling prices on key raw material and energy costs.



Eastman's focus for the Asia Pacific region is on specialty products that benefit from both the emerging middle class in the region and expected continuation of the shift in China from government infrastructure spending to a consumer driven economy. In the AFP segment, the Company is beginning a Crystex®capacity expansion at the Kuantan, Malaysia manufacturing facility to capitalize on expected high industrial growth rates in the Asia Pacific region. This expansion is expected to be operational in 2017. In the AM segment, construction of a PVB resin manufacturing facility at the Kuantan, Malaysia site is expected to be operational in 2017. The Fibers segment was responsible for 25 percent of revenue in the region, primarily from acetate tow products.



Company revenues in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region increased 16 percent in 2015 due to revenues from businesses acquired in 2014. Sales of certain of the Company's products in the region have increased more than general economic growth in recent periods due to regulatory requirements and consumer preferences in Europe. The AM segment accounted for 26 percent of the region's revenue, with a high concentration of interlayers product sales in this region. The AFP segment accounted for 31 percent of the region's revenue due to additional revenues from certain newly acquired businesses and strong sales revenue in both coatings and tires markets. Europe, Middle East, and Africa region revenues continue to be negatively affected by an unfavorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates and lower prices as a result of lower raw material costs attributed to the ongoing economic weakness in most European countries.



The Company is focused on market trends in the Latin America region that include the growing use of adhesives for consumables and performance films for automotive end-market applications. The AFP segment accounted for 31 percent of the region's revenue due to sales revenue in both coatings and tires markets.














In 2015, the segment revenue by region was as follows:

Additives & Functional ProductsAdhesives & PlasticizersAdvanced MaterialsFibersSpecialty Fluids & IntermediatesCombinedUnited States and Canada39%56%38%21%65%45%Asia Pacific22%9%31%49%15%24%Europe, Middle East, and Africa32%29%26%26%15%25%Latin America7%6%5%4%5%6%TOTAL100%100%100%100%100%100%



Financial Information About Geographic Areas



For sales revenue and long-lived assets by geographic areas, see Note20, "Segment Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.





EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY GENERAL INFORMATION



Seasonality and Cyclicality



The Company's earnings are typically greater in second and third quarters, and cash flows from operations are typically highest in the second half of the year due to seasonal demand based on general economic activity in the Company's key markets as described in "Business Segments". Results in the A&P and the AM segments are typically weaker in fourth quarter due to seasonal downturns in key markets.



The intermediates product lines ofthe SFI segment and the coatings product lines of the AFP segment are impacted by the cyclicality of key end products and markets, while other segments are more sensitive to global economic conditions. Supply and demand dynamics determine profitability at different stages of business cycles and global economic conditions affect the length of each cycle.



Despite sensitivity to global economic conditions, many of the products of each segment are expected to continue to provide an overall stable foundation for earnings.



Sales, Marketing, and Distribution



The Company markets and sells products primarily through a global marketing and sales organization which has a presence in the United States and approximately 40 other countries selling into approximately 135 countries around the world. Eastman has a marketing and sales strategy targeting industries and applications where Eastman products and services provide differentiated value. Market, customer, application, and technical expertise are critical capabilities. Through a highly skilled and specialized sales force that is capable of providing differentiated product solutions, Eastman strives to be the preferred supplier in the Company's targeted markets.



The Company's products are also marketed through indirect channels, which include distributors and contract representatives. Sales outside the United States tend to be made more frequently through distributors and contract representatives than sales in the United States. The combination of direct and indirect sales channels, including sales online through its Customer Center website, allows Eastman to reliably serve customers throughout the world.



The Company's products are shipped to customers directly from Eastman's manufacturing plants and from distribution centers worldwide.












Sources and Availability of Raw Material and Energy



Eastman purchases a substantial portion, estimated to be approximately 70 percent, of its key raw materials and energy through different contract mechanisms, generally of two to five years in initial duration with renewal or cancellation options for each party. Most of these agreements do not require the Company to purchase materials or energy if its operations are reduced or idle. The cost of raw materials and energy is generally based on market price at the time of purchase, and Eastman uses derivative financial instruments for certain of its key raw materials to mitigate the impact of market price fluctuations. Key raw materials include cellulose, paraxylene, propane, propylene, methanol, polyvinyl alcohol, natural gas, and a wide variety of precursors for specialty organic chemicals. Key purchased energy sources include natural gas, coal, and electricity. The Company has multiple suppliers for most key raw materials and energy and uses quality management principles, such as the establishment of long-term relationships with suppliers and on-going performance assessment and benchmarking, as part of its supplier selection process. When appropriate, the Company purchases raw materials from a single source supplier to maximize quality and cost improvements, and has developed contingency plans designed to minimize the potential impact of any supply disruptions from single source suppliers.



While temporary shortages of raw materials and energy may occasionally occur, these items are generally sufficiently available to cover current and projected requirements. However, their continuous availability and cost are subject to unscheduled plant interruptions occurring during periods of high demand, domestic and world market conditions, changes in government regulation, natural disasters, war or other outbreak of hostilities or terrorism or other political factors, or breakdown or degradation of transportation infrastructure. Eastman's operations or products have in the past, and may in the future, be adversely affected by these factors. The Company's raw material and energy costs as a percent of total cost of operations were approximately 45 percent, 55 percent, and 60 percent in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.



For additional information about raw materials, see exhibit 99.01 "Product and Raw Material Information" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Manufacturing Streams



Integral to Eastman's strategy for growth is leveraging its heritage of expertise and innovation in acetyl, olefins, polyester and alkylamine chemistries in key markets, including transportation, building and construction, consumables, tobacco, and agriculture. For each of these chemistries, Eastman has developed and acquired a combination of assets and technologies that are operated within four manufacturing "streams".



•In the acetyl stream, the Company begins with coal which is gasified in the presence of oxygen in its coal gasification facility. The resulting synthesis gas is converted into a number of chemicals including methanol, methyl acetate, acetic acid, and acetic anhydride. These chemicals are used in manufacturing products throughout the Company including, but not limited to, cellulose fibers, plastics, and esters. In the long-term, the Company's ability to use coal is considered to be a raw material cost advantage. The major end markets for products from the acetyl stream include coatings, displays, and tobacco.





•












•In the polyester stream, the Company begins with purchased paraxylene and produces purified terephthalic acid ("PTA") and dimethyl terephthalate ("DMT") for polyesters and copolyesters. PTA or DMT is then reacted with various glycols, which the Company either makes or purchases, along with other raw materials (some of which the Company makes and are proprietary) to produce copolyesters. The Company believes that this backward integration of polyester manufacturing is a competitive advantage, giving Eastman a low cost position, as well as a more reliable intermediate supply. In addition, Eastman can add specialty monomers to copolyesters to provide clear, tough, chemically resistant product characteristics. As a result, the Company's copolyesters effectively compete with materials such as polycarbonate and acrylic.



•In the alkylamine stream, the Company begins with ammonia and alcohols (C1 - C6) to produce methyl amines and higher alkylamines, which can then be further reacted with other chemicals to produce alkylamine derivatives. The Company’s alkylamine products are primarily used in agriculture, water treatment, consumables, animal nutrition and oil and gas end markets. The Company is recognized as one of the leading global producers of alkylamines. Methylamines are manufactured by reacting methanol with ammonia in a catalytic reactor. Three different methylamines are produced: mono methylamine ("MMA"), di methylamine ("DMA") and tri methylamine ("TMA"). The reaction circumstances (pressure, temperature, catalysts, etc.) and reactant ratios determine the ratio of the three products which are purified by distillation and used as building blocks to produce downstream derivatives or sold externally to merchant customers. The term 'higher alkylamines' refers to amines produced with C2-C6 alcohols (ethyl, n butyl, n propyl, isopropyl and cyclohexyl amines). The manufacturing process for higher alkylamines is similar to that for methylamines, as ammonia is combined with various alcohols in catalytic reactors and subsequently distilled. The use of different alcohols results in the creation of different higher alkylamines which are used both internally to produce derivatives or sold externally to the merchant market.



In addition to stream integration, the Company also derives value from Eastman's cellulosics expertise. These cellulosics are natural polymers, sourced from managed forests, which, when combined with acetyl and olefin chemicals, provide differentiated product lines and an advantaged raw material position for Eastman.



The Company leverages its expertise and innovation in acetyl, olefins, polyester and alkylamine chemistries, and technologies, as well as its use of cellulosics, to meet demand and create new uses and opportunities for the Company's products in key markets. Through integration and optimization across these streams, the Company is able to create unique and differentiated products that have a performance advantage over competitive materials.



Capital Expenditures



Capital expenditures were$652 million,$593 million, and$483 millionin 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Capital expenditures in 2015 were primarily for the costs of modernization and expansion of the Kingsport, Tennessee site, expansion and construction at the Kuantan, Malaysia manufacturing site in the AFP and AM segments, a Therminol®heat transfer fluid capacity expansion in Newport, Wales, and additional expansion of Eastman Tritan®copolyester capacity in Kingsport. The Company expects that 2016 capital spending will be similar to 2015 including the continuation of the expansion projects in Kuantan, Kingsport and Longview, Texas site modernization projects, and the additional Eastman Tritan®copolyester expansion in Kingsport.



Employees



Eastman employs approximately 15,000 men and women worldwide. Approximately 10 percent of the total worldwide labor force is represented by collective labor agreements, mostly outside the United States.



Customers



Eastman has an extensive customer base and, while it is not dependent on any one customer, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect the Company until such business is replaced. The top 100 customers accounted for approximately 55 percent of the Company's 2015 sales revenue. No single customer accounted for 10 percent or more of the Company's consolidated sales revenue during 2015.












Intellectual Property and Trademarks



While the Company's intellectual property portfolio is an important Company asset which it expands and vigorously protects globally through a combination of patents that expire at various times, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets, neither its business as a whole nor any particular segment is materially dependent upon any one particular patent, trademark, copyright, or trade secret. As a producer of a broad range of advanced materials, chemicals, and fibers, Eastman owns over 700 active United States patents and more than 1,900 active foreign patents, expiring at various times over several years, and also owns over 5,000 active worldwide trademark applications and registrations. Eastman continues to actively protect its intellectual property. As the laws of many countries do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States, Eastman cannot ensure that it will be able to adequately protect its intellectual property assets outside the United States.



The Company pursues opportunities to license proprietary technology to third parties in areas where it has determined competitive impact to its businesses will be minimal. These arrangements typically are structured to require payments at significant project milestones such as signing, completion of design, and start-up.



Research and Development



For 2015, 2014, and 2013, Eastman's R&D expenses totaled $251 million, $227 million, and $193 million, respectively.



Environmental



Eastman is subject to significant and complex laws, regulations, and legal requirements relating to the use, storage, handling, generation, transportation, emission, discharge, disposal, and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and non-hazardous substances and wastes in all of the countries in which it does business. These health, safety, and environmental considerations are a priority in the Company's planning for all existing and new products and processes. The Health, Safety, Environmental and Security Committee of Eastman's Board of Directors oversees the Company's policies and practices concerning health, safety, and the environment and its processes for complying with related laws and regulations, and monitors related matters.



The Company's policy is to operate its plants and facilities in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations such that it protects the environment and the health and safety of its employees and the public. The Company intends to continue to make expenditures for environmental protection and improvements in a timely manner consistent with its policies and with the technology available. In some cases, applicable environmental regulations such as those adopted under the Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, and related actions of regulatory agencies, determine the timing and amount of environmental costs incurred by the Company. Likewise, any new legislation or regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and energy could impact the timing and amount of environmental costs incurred by the Company. The Company has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption on a unit basis over the last five years.



The Company accrues environmental costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability at a contaminated site and the amount can be reasonably estimated. In some instances, the amount cannot be reasonably estimated due to insufficient information, particularly as to the nature and timing of future expenditures. In these cases, the liability is monitored until such time that sufficient information exists. With respect to a contaminated site, the amount accrued reflects liabilities expected to be paid out within 30 years and the Company's assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations, and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs.












The amounts charged to earnings related to environmental protection and improvement were$290 million, $319 million, and $285 million, in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. These amounts were primarily for operating costs associated with environmental protection equipment and facilities, but also included$61 million, $79 million, and $53 million in expenditures for engineering and construction in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Management anticipates that capital expenditures associated with boiler air emissions regulations will modestly increase average annual environmental capital expenditures over the next three years compared to recent historical levels. However, over that period the Company has decided to convert 50 percent of its steam and electric generation capacity at the Kingsport, Tennessee facility and the Springfield, Massachusetts facility to natural gas which the Company believes is more cost-efficient. Management does not believe that these expenditures will have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or cash flows. Other than these planned capital expenditures at the Company's Kingsport, Tennessee and Springfield, Massachusetts facilities, the Company does not currently expect near term environmental capital expenditures arising from requirements of recently promulgated environmental laws and regulations to materially increase the Company's planned level of annual capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.



Other matters concerning health, safety, and the environment are discussed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II Item 7 and in Notes 1, "Significant Accounting Policies"; 13, "Environmental Matters and Asset Retirement Obligations"; and 22, "Reserve Rollforwards" to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report.



Backlog



On January 1, 2016 and 2015, Eastman's backlog of firm sales orders represented less than 10 percent of the Company's total consolidated revenue for the previous year. These orders are primarily short-term and all orders are expected to be filled in the following year. The Company manages its inventory levels to control the backlog of products depending on customers' needs. In areas where the Company is the single source of supply, or competitive forces or customers' needs dictate, the Company may carry additional inventory to meet customer requirements.



Available Information - SEC Filings



The Company makes available free of charge, through the "Investors - SEC Information" section of its Internet website (www.eastman.com), its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC.



The Company is required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials that the Company files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.





