ITEM 1.  BUSINESS



CORPORATE OVERVIEW



Eastman
Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company") is a global chemical company which
manufactures and sells a broad portfolio of chemicals, plastics, and
fibers.  Eastman began business in 1920 for the purpose of producing
chemicals for Eastman Kodak Company's photographic business and became a public
company, incorporated in Delaware, as of December 31, 1993.  Eastman
has eleven manufacturing sites in seven countries that supply chemicals,
plastics, and fibers products to customers throughout the world.  The
Company's headquarters and largest manufacturing site are located in Kingsport,
Tennessee.



In 2009,
the Company had sales revenue of $5.0 billion and operating earnings of $317
million.  Earnings per diluted share were $1.85 in
2009.  Included in 2009 operating earnings were asset impairments and
restructuring charges of $200 million.



The
Company's products and operations are managed and reported in five operating
segments: the Coatings, Adhesives, Specialty Polymers, and Inks ("CASPI")
segment, the Fibers segment, the Performance Chemicals and Intermediates ("PCI")
segment, the Performance Polymers segment and the Specialty Plastics
segment.  The Company manages certain costs and initiatives at the
corporate level, including certain research and development costs not allocated
to the operating segments.  For additional information concerning the
Company's operating segments, see Note 22 "Segment Information" to the Company's
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this 2009 Annual Report
on Form 10-K (this "Annual Report").



Corporate
Strategy



Eastman's
objective is to be an outperforming chemical company by delivering solid
financial results from its core businesses and its plans for profitable
growth.  The Company's core businesses currently sell differentiated
products into diverse markets and geographic regions.  Management
believes that the Company can increase the revenues from its core businesses
with increasing profitability through a balance of new applications for existing
products, development of new products, and sales growth in adjacent markets and
emerging geographic regions.  These revenue and earnings increases are
expected to result from organic initiatives and through acquisitions and joint
ventures.  Current Company growth initiatives include:



·In
      the Fibers segment, construction of the Korean cellulose acetate tow
      manufacturing facility began in first quarter 2009 and the facility is
      expected to be operational in first quarter 2010.  The facility
      and related business will be owned by a company formed through an alliance
      with SK Chemicals Company Ltd.
("SK").

·In
      the Specialty Plastics segment, continued introduction of new
      high-temperature copolyester products based on Eastman TritanTMcopolyester and production in early 2010 from the monomer manufacturing
      facility and its first TritanTMcopolyester polymer manufacturing facility in Kingsport, Tennessee which
      were both completed in 2009.

·In
      the CASPI segment, increased production in 2010 as a result of the 30
      percent expansion of the Company's hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins
      manufacturing capacity in Middelburg, the Netherlands which was completed
      in 2009 to meet growing demand for specialty hydrocarbon
      resins.

·In
      the PCI segment, increased revenue from acetyl licenses and growth in
      plasticizers, including Eastman 168TMplasticizer, in 2010.



The
Company benefits from advantaged feedstocks and proprietary technologies, and is
focusing on sustainability as a competitive strength for
growth.  Eastman has developed new products and technologies that
enable customers' development and sales of sustainable products, and has reduced
its greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption.



The
combination of sustainable profits from the solid core businesses and profitable
revenue growth is expected to result in continued solid financial
results.








Manufacturing
Streams



Integral
to Eastman's corporate strategy for growth is leveraging its heritage of
expertise and innovation in acetyl, polyester, and olefins chemistries in key
markets, including packaging, tobacco, building and construction, and
consumables.  For each of these chemistries, Eastman has developed a
combination of assets and technologies that are operated within three
manufacturing "streams".



·In
      the acetyl stream, the Company begins with high sulfur coal which is then
      gasified in its coal gasification facility.  The resulting
      synthesis gas is converted into a number of chemicals including methanol,
      methyl acetate, acetic acid, and acetic anhydride.  These
      chemicals are used in products throughout the Company including acetate
      tow, acetate yarn, and cellulose esters.  The Company's ability
      to use coal is a competitive advantage in both raw materials and
      energy.  The Company continues to evaluate opportunities to
      further leverage its gasification expertise to produce additional cost
      advantaged chemicals from petroleum coke or coal instead of natural gas or
      petroleum.

·In
      the polyester stream, the Company begins with purchased paraxylene and
      produces purified terephthalic acid ("PTA") for polyethylene terephthalate
      ("PET") and copolyesters and dimethyl terephthalate ("DMT") for
      copolyesters.  PTA or DMT is then reacted with ethylene glycol,
      which the Company both makes and purchases, along with other raw materials
      (some of which the Company makes and are proprietary) to produce PET and
      copolyesters.  The Company believes that this backward
      integration of polyester manufacturing is a competitive advantage, giving
      Eastman a low cost position, as well as surety of intermediate
      supply.  In addition, Eastman can add specialty monomers to
      copolyesters to provide clear, tough, chemically resistant product
      characteristics.  As a result, the Company's copolyesters can
      effectively compete with materials such as polycarbonate and
      acrylic.

·In
      the olefins stream, the Company begins primarily with propane and ethane,
      which are then cracked at its facility in Longview, Texas into propylene,
      as well as ethylene.  "Cracking" is a chemical process in which
      gases are broken down into smaller, lighter molecules for use in the
      manufacturing process.  The Company also purchases propylene for
      use at its Longview facility and its facilities outside the
      U.S.  The propylene is used in oxo derivative
      products.  The ethylene is used in oxo derivative products,
      acetaldehyde and ethylene glycol production and is also sold
      commercially.  Petrochemical business cycles are influenced by
      periods of over- and under-capacity.  Capacity additions to
      steam cracker units around the world, combined with demand for light
      olefins, determine the operating rate and thus profitability of producing
      olefins.  Historically, periodic additions of large blocks of
      capacity have caused profit margins of light olefins to be very volatile,
      resulting in "ethylene" or "olefins"
cycles.



The
following chart shows the Company's sites at which its manufacturing streams are
primarily employed.



SITEACETYL
      STREAMPOLYESTER
      STREAMOLEFINS
      STREAMKingsport,
      TennesseeXXXLongview,
      TexasXXColumbia,
      South CarolinaXKuantan,
      MalaysiaXSingaporeXWorkington,
      United KingdomX










The
following chart shows significant Eastman products, markets, and end uses by
segment and manufacturing stream.



SEGMENTACETYL
      STREAMPOLYESTER
      STREAMOLEFINS
      STREAMKEY
      PRODUCTS, MARKETS, ANDEND
      USESCASPIXXAdhesives
      ingredients (tape, labels, and nonwovens) and paints and coatings
      (architectural, transportation, industrial, and original equipment
      manufacturing ("OEM"))FibersXAcetate
      fibers for filter products and textilesPCIXXXIntermediate
      chemicals for agrochemicals, transportation, beverages, nutrition,
      pharmaceuticals, coatings, medical devices, toys, photographic and
      imaging, household products, polymers, textiles, and consumer and
      industrial products and usesPerformance
      PolymersXXPET
      for beverage and food packaging, custom-care and cosmetic packaging,
      health care and pharmaceutical uses, household products, and industrial
      packaging applicationsSpecialty
      PlasticsXXXCopolyesters
      and cellulosics for appliances, store fixtures and displays, building and
      construction, electronic packaging, medical devices and packaging, graphic
      arts, general purpose packaging, personal care and cosmetics, food and
      beverage packaging, performance films, tape and labels, fibers/nonwovens,
      photographic and optical films, and liquid crystal displays



In
addition to stream integration, the Company also derives value from Eastman
cellulosics.  These are natural polymers, sourced from managed
forests, which when combined with the acetyl and olefin streams, provide an
advantaged raw material position for Eastman.



The
Company continues to leverage its heritage of expertise and innovation in
acetyl, polyester, and olefins chemistries and technologies, as well as its use
of cellulosics, to meet demand and create new uses and opportunities for the
Company's products in key markets.  By choosing to
combine certain streams, the Company is able to create unique and
differentiated products that have a performance advantage over competitive
materials.



Cyclicality
and Seasonality



The PCI
and Performance Polymers segments are impacted by the cyclicality of key
products and markets, while the other segments are more sensitive to global
economic conditions. Supply and demand dynamics determine profitability at
different stages of cycles and global economic conditions affect the length of
each cycle. Despite sensitivity to global economic conditions, many of the
products in the Fibers and CASPI segments provide a stable foundation of
earnings.




The
Company's earnings are typically greater in the second and third quarters and
cash flows from operations are greatest in fourth quarter due to
seasonality.  Demand for CASPI segment products is typically stronger
in the second and third quarters due to the increased use of coatings products
in the building and construction industries, while demand is typically weaker
during the winter months because of seasonal construction
downturns.  The PCI segment typically has weaker fourth quarter
financial results, due in part to a seasonal downturn in demand for products
used in certain building and construction and agricultural
markets.  The Performance Polymers segment typically has stronger
demand for its PET polymers for beverage container plastics during the second
and early third quarters due to higher consumption of beverages in the U.S. and
Canada, while demand typically weakens during the late third and fourth
quarters.



In 2009,
the impact of the global recession on demand for the Company's products affected
the typical yearly trend, resulting in lower earnings in first and second
quarters, with increased earnings in the second half of the year.  Due
to strategic cash management during the first half of the year to counter the
effects of the recession and a pension contribution in fourth quarter, cash
flows from operations were greatest in third quarter.



CASPI
SEGMENT



·Overview



In the
CASPI segment, the Company manufactures resins, specialty polymers, and solvents
which are integral to the production of paints and coatings, inks, adhesives,
and other formulated products.  Growth in these markets in the U.S.,
Canada, and Europe typically approximates general economic growth due to the
wide variety of end uses for these applications.  Typically, growth in
Asia, Eastern Europe, and Latin America continues to be higher than general
economic growth, driven by regional growth in these emerging
economies.  In 2009, the impact of the global recession on demand for
the Company's products affected the typical yearly trend.  The CASPI
segment focuses on producing raw materials rather than finished products and
developing long-term, strategic relationships to achieve preferred supplier
status with its customers.  In 2009, the CASPI segment had sales
revenue of $1.2 billion, representing 24 percent of Eastman's total
sales.



The
profitability of the CASPI segment is sensitive to the global economy, market
trends, broader chemical cycles, particularly the olefins cycle, and foreign
currency exchange rates.  The CASPI segment's specialty products,
which include cellulose-based specialty polymers, coalescents, and selected
hydrocarbon resins, are less sensitive to the olefins cycle due to their
functional performance attributes.  The commodity products, which
include commodity solvents and base resins, are more impacted by the olefins
cycle as discussed under "Manufacturing Streams".  The Company seeks
to leverage its proprietary technologies, competitive cost structure, and
integrated manufacturing facilities to maintain a strong competitive position
throughout such cycles.



·Products



ØPolymers

The
polymers product line consists of cellulose-based specialty polymers and
olefin-based performance products.  Eastman's cellulose-based
specialty polymers enhance the aesthetic appeal and improve the performance of
industrial and transportation coatings and inks.  Olefin-based
products are used as base polymers in hot-melt adhesives, paper laminating,
sealants and pressure sensitive adhesives.  They are also used as
elastomer extenders in sealants and waterproofing compounds for wire and cable
flooding applications.  The polymers product line also includes
chlorinated polyolefins which promote the adherence of paints and coatings to
plastic substrates.  Polymers accounted for approximately 15 percent
of the CASPI segment's total sales for 2009.






ØResins

The
resins product line consists of hydrocarbon resins, rosin resins, and resin
dispersions.  These products are sold primarily to adhesive
formulators and consumer product companies for use as raw materials essential in
hot-melt and pressure sensitive adhesives and as binders in nonwoven products
such as disposable diapers, feminine products, and pre-saturated
wipes.  Eastman offers a broad product portfolio of essential
ingredients for the adhesives industry, and ranks as the second largest global
tackifier supplier.  In addition, Eastman is one of the largest
manufacturers of hydrogenated gum rosins used in chewing gum
applications.  Eastman resins are also used in a wide range of
applications including plastics and rubber modification and
inks.  Resins accounted for approximately 35 percent of the CASPI
segment's total sales for 2009.



ØSolvents

The
solvents product line includes both specialty coalescents and ketones and
commodity esters, glycol ethers and alcohol solvents.  Coalescents
include products such as TexanolTMester alcohol which improves film formation and durability in architectural
latex paints.  Ketones consist of low volatile organic compound
("VOC") solvents used in high solids coatings applications.  Commodity
solvents, which consist of esters, glycol ether, and alcohol solvents, are used
in both paints and inks to maintain the formulation in liquid form for ease of
application.  Solvents accounted for approximately 50 percent of the
CASPI segment's total sales for 2009.



·Strategy
      and Innovation



A key
element of the CASPI segment's growth strategy is the continued development of
innovative product offerings, building on proprietary technologies in
high-growth markets and regions to meet customers' evolving needs and improve
the quality and performance of customers' end products.  Management
believes that its ability to leverage the CASPI segment's broad product line and
Eastman's research and development capabilities make the segment uniquely
capable of offering a broad array of solutions for new and emerging
markets.  For example, in 2009 Eastman received the Environmental
Protection Agency's ("EPA") 2009 Presidential Green Chemistry Challenge Award
for its green biocatalytic process.  This process is utilized in the
CASPI segment products sold in higher-growth markets such as personal and
household care.



The
Company intends to continue to leverage its resources to strengthen the CASPI
segment's product innovation and product enhancement pipeline by meeting market
needs and the expanded use of proprietary products and
technologies.  Although the CASPI segment sales and application
development are often specialized by end-use markets, developments in technology
can often be successfully shared across multiple end-uses and
markets.



The
Company's global manufacturing presence is a key element of the CASPI segment's
growth strategy.  For example, the segment is well positioned to
capitalize on expected high industrial growth in China and other parts of Asia
from its facility in Singapore and joint venture operations in
China.  This regional position will be further strengthened by the
purchase of a small polymer producer in China which was completed in first
quarter 2010.  The Company is committed to maintaining reliability of
supply of the CASPI segment products to our strategic customers to ensure that
Eastman is the supplier of choice.  The segment is meeting growing
demand for specialty hydrocarbon resins through the 30 percent expansion of the
Company's hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins manufacturing capacity in Middelburg,
the Netherlands which was completed in 2009.



·Customers
      and Markets



As a
result of the variety of end uses for its products, the customer base for the
CASPI segment is broad and diverse. This segment has approximately 825 customers
around the world, while 80 percent of its sales revenue in 2009 was attributable
to approximately 80 customers.  The CASPI segment focuses on
establishing long-term, customer service-oriented relationships with its
strategic customers in order to become their preferred supplier and to leverage
these relationships to pursue sales opportunities in previously underserved
markets and to expand the scope of its value-added services.  Growth
in the U.S., Canadian, and European markets typically coincides with economic
growth in general, due to the wide variety of end uses for these applications
and their dependence on the economic conditions of the markets for packaged
goods, transportation, durable goods, and housing.






The
current regulatory environment, particularly in the U.S., Canada, and Europe,
provides both market challenges and opportunities for the CASPI
segment.  Environmental regulations that impose limits on the emission
of VOCs and hazardous air pollutants ("HAPs") continue to impact coatings
formulations requiring compliant coatings raw materials.  The coatings
industry is responding by promoting products and technologies designed to enable
customers and end users to reduce air emissions of VOCs and HAPs in compliance
with state and federal regulations.  A variety of Eastman's CASPI
segment products are used in compliance coatings.  Additional products
are currently being developed to meet the growing demand for low VOC coatings,
including the recently introduced SolusTM2300
product.



·Competition



Competition
within the CASPI segment's markets varies widely depending on the specific
product or product group.  The Company's major competitors in the
CASPI segment's markets include larger companies such as BASF SE ("BASF"), Dow
Chemical Company ("Dow"), and Exxon Mobil Corporation, which may have greater
financial and other resources than Eastman.  Additionally, within each
CASPI segment product market, the Company competes with other smaller,
regionally focused companies that may have advantages based upon location, local
market knowledge, manufacturing strength in a specific product, or other similar
factors.  However, Eastman does not believe that any of its
competitors has a dominant position within the CASPI segment's markets, nor the
breadth of product offerings that Eastman is able to offer its CASPI segment
customers.  The Company believes its competitive advantages include
its level of vertical integration; breadth of product offerings, service, and
technology offerings; low-cost manufacturing position; consistent product
quality; security of supply; and process and market knowledge.  The
CASPI segment principally competes on breadth of products and through leveraging
its strong customer base and long-standing customer relationships to promote
substantial recurring business and product development.



FIBERS
SEGMENT



·Overview



In the
Fibers segment, Eastman manufactures and sells EstronTMacetate tow and
EstrobondTMtriacetin plasticizers for use primarily in the manufacture of cigarette
filters; EstronTMnatural and ChromspunTMsolution-dyed acetate yarns for use in apparel, home furnishings and industrial
fabrics; and cellulose acetate flake and acetyl raw materials for other acetate
fiber producers.  Eastman is one of the world's two largest suppliers
of acetate tow and has been a market leader in the manufacture and sale of
acetate tow since it began production in the early 1950s.  The Company
is the world's largest producer of acetate yarn and has been in this business
for over 75 years.  The Fibers segment's manufacturing operations are
primarily located at the Kingsport, Tennessee site, and also include a smaller
acetate tow production plant in Workington, England, which was expanded in
2008.  In 2009, the Fibers segment had sales revenue of $1.0 billion,
representing 21 percent of Eastman's total sales.  The Fibers segment
remains a strong and stable cash generator for the Company.



The
Company's long history and experience in the fibers markets are reflected in the
Fibers segment's operating expertise, both within the Company and in support of
its customers' processes.  The Fibers segment's knowledge of the
industry and of customers' processes allows it to assist its customers in
maximizing their processing efficiencies, promoting repeat sales and mutually
beneficial, long-term customer relationships.



The
Company's fully integrated fiber manufacturing processes from coal-based acetyl
raw materials through acetate tow and yarn provide a competitive advantage over
companies whose processes are dependent on petrochemicals.  In
addition, the Fibers segment employs unique technology that allows it to use a
broad range of high-purity wood pulps for which the Company has dependable
sources of supply.  Management believes that these factors combine to
make Eastman an industry leader in reliability of supply and cost
position.  In addition to the cost advantage of being coal-based, the
Fibers segment's competitive strengths include a reputation for high-quality
products, technical expertise, large scale vertically-integrated processes,
reliability of supply, acetate flake supply in excess of internal needs, a
reputation for customer service excellence, and a customer base characterized by
long-term customer relationships.  The Company intends to continue to
capitalize and build on these strengths to improve the strategic position of its
Fibers segment.



Contributing
to the profitability in the Fibers segment is the limited number of competitors,
the high industry capacity utilization, and significant barriers to
entry.  These barriers include, but are not limited to, high capital
costs for integrated manufacturing facilities.






In the
Fibers segment, construction of the Korean cellulose acetate tow manufacturing
facility began in first quarter 2009, and the facility is expected to be
operational in first quarter 2010.  The facility and related business
will be owned by a company formed through an alliance with SK.



·Products



ØAcetate
    TowEastman
manufactures acetate tow under the EstronTMtrademark according to a wide variety of customer specifications, primarily for
use in the manufacture of cigarette filters.  Acetate tow is the
largest sales product of the Fibers segment.  Worldwide demand for
acetate tow is expected to increase by one to two percent per year through 2012,
with higher growth rates in Asia.ØAcetate
    Yarn

The
Company manufactures acetate filament yarn under the EstronTMand
ChromspunTMtrademarks in a wide variety of specifications.  EstronTMacetate yarn is available in bright and dull luster and is suitable for
subsequent dyeing in the fabric form.  ChromspunTMacetate yarn is solution-dyed in the manufacturing process and is available in
more than 100 colors.



ØAcetyl Chemical
      Products

The
Fibers segment's acetyl chemical products are sold primarily to other acetate
fiber market producers and include cellulose diacetate flake, acetic acid, and
acetic anhydride.  Each is used as a raw material for the production
of cellulose acetate fibers.  The Fibers segment also markets
acetyl-based triacetin plasticizers under the EstrobondTMtrademark, generally
for use by cigarette manufacturers as a bonding agent in cigarette
filters.



·Strategy and
      Innovation



ØGrowth

In the
Fibers segment, Eastman is leveraging its strong customer relationships and
knowledge of the industry to identify growth options.  These growth
options are enabled by its excess acetate flake capacity at the Kingsport,
Tennessee site.  In December 2008, the Company announced an alliance
with SK to form a company to acquire and operate a cellulose acetate tow
manufacturing facility and related business, with the facility to be constructed
by SK in Korea.  Eastman will have controlling ownership in the
business.  Construction of the Korean facility began in first quarter
2009, and the facility is expected to be operational in first quarter 2010 and
fully integrated into the Fibers segment's production and sales processes in
2011.  Annual capacity at the Korean facility is expected to be
approximately 27,000 metric tons, and Eastman's total worldwide capacity for
acetate tow will exceed 200,000 metric tons, an increase of approximately 15
percent.  The net impact of the added Korean facility on global
capacity is estimated to be an increase of approximately two percent versus 2008
industry capacity levels.



ØContinue to Capitalize on
      Fibers Technology Expertise

The
Fibers segment intends to continue to make use of its capabilities in fibers
technology to maintain a strong focus on incremental product and process
improvements, with the goals of meeting customers' evolving needs and improving
the segment's manufacturing process efficiencies.



ØMaintain
      Cost-Effective Operations and Consistent Cash Flows and
      Earnings

The
Fibers segment intends to continue to operate in a cost effective manner,
capitalizing on its technology, scale and vertical integration, and to make
further productivity and efficiency improvements through continued investments
in research and development.



ØResearch
      and Development

The
Company's Fibers segment research and development efforts focus on process and
product improvements, as well as cost reduction, with the objectives of
increasing sales and reducing costs.  The Fibers segment also conducts
research to assist acetate tow customers in the effective use of the segment's
products and in the customers' product development efforts.






·Customers and
      Markets



The
customer base in the Fibers segment is relatively concentrated, consisting of
approximately 150 companies in the tobacco, textile, and acetate fibers
industries.  Eastman's Fibers segment customers are located in all
regions of the world.  The largest 12 customers within the Fibers
segment include multinational as well as regional cigarette producers, fabric
manufacturers, and other acetate fiber producers.  These largest 12
customers accounted for about 80 percent of the segment's total sales revenue in
2009.  Sales prices for a significant portion of the Fibers segment's
products are typically negotiated on an annual basis.  The segment
maintains a strong position in acetate tow exports to China, one of the largest
and fastest growing markets in the world.



·Competition



Eastman
is the second largest acetate tow manufacturer in the
world.  Competitors in the fibers market for acetate tow include
Celanese Corporation ("Celanese"), Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd ("Daicel"),
Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd. ("Mitsubishi Rayon"), and Rhodia S.A..  In
the acetate tow market, two major competitors, Celanese and Daicel, have joint
venture capacity in China.

In the
segment's acetate yarn business, major competitors include Industrias del
Acetato de Celulosa S.A. ("INACSA"), Mitsubishi Rayon, and UAB
Korelita.  Eastman is the world leader in acetate yarn production and
the only acetate yarn producer in the U.S. and Canada.  The physical
properties of acetate yarn make it desirable for use in textile products such as
suit linings, women's apparel, medical tape, drapery, ribbons and other
specialty fabrics.  However, over the past 20 years, demand for
acetate yarn has been adversely affected by the substitution of lower cost
polyester and rayon yarns.  Accordingly, worldwide demand for acetate
yarn is expected to continue to decrease as mills substitute these cheaper yarns
for acetate yarn.  Eastman, however, remains uniquely positioned
because it is the only integrated producer of acetate yarn.

As
described above under "Fibers Segment – Overview", the principal methods of
competition include maintaining the Company's large-scale vertically integrated
manufacturing process from coal-based acetyl raw materials, reliability of
supply, product quality, and sustaining long-term customer
relationships.



PCI
SEGMENT



·Overview



The
Company's PCI segment manufactures diversified products that are sold
externally, as well as used internally by other segments.  The PCI
segment's earnings are highly dependent on how the Company chooses to optimize
the acetyl and olefins streams.  In 2009, the PCI segment had sales
revenue of $1.3 billion, representing 26 percent of Eastman's total
sales.



Many of
the segment's products are affected by the olefins cycle.  See
"Corporate Overview – Manufacturing Streams" earlier in this "Part 1 – Item 1.
Business."  This cyclicality is caused by periods of supply and demand
imbalance, either when incremental capacity additions are not offset by
corresponding increases in demand, or when demand exceeds existing
supply.  Demand, in turn, is based on general economic conditions, raw
material and energy costs, and other factors beyond the Company's
control.  Future PCI segment results will continue to fluctuate from
period to period due to these changing economic conditions.



There are
four cracking units located at the Company's Longview, Texas
facility.  In 2007, the three oldest cracking units were identified
for a staged phase-out.  Eastman shut down the first of the three
units in fourth quarter 2007 and idled the second cracking unit in December
2008.  The timing of the permanent shut down of the second and third
cracking units including the idled cracker is dependent on feedstock and olefin
market conditions.  With the divestiture of the Company's polyethylene
business in 2006, the Company has experienced excess ethylene capacity and has
reconfigured its cracker position to enhance its long-term olefin production to
better match the Company's feedstock requirements.



Approximately
75 percent of the Company's olefin derivatives are made from propylene and sold
in the U.S. and Canadian market.  The PCI segment believes it is
well-positioned in the U.S. and Canadian market for most of its major products,
including both acetyl products and olefin derivatives, due to its competitive
delivered cost position and supply reliability versus
competitors.






·Products



The PCI
segment offers over 135 products that include intermediates based on oxo and
acetyl chemistries and performance chemicals.  The PCI segment's 2009
sales revenue was approximately 50 percent from olefin-based and 35 percent from
acetyl-based chemistries, and 15 percent from other.  Approximately 65
percent of the PCI segment's sales revenue is generated in the U.S. and Canada,
a region in which the Company has a leading market share position for most of
its key oxo and acetyl products.  Sales in all regions are generated
through a mix of the Company's direct sales force and a network of
distributors.  The Company's PCI segment is the largest marketer of
acetic anhydride in the United States, an intermediate that is a critical
component of analgesics, laundry care products, and nutritional supplements, and
is the only U.S. producer of acetaldehyde, a key intermediate in the production
of agricultural and other specialty products.  Eastman believes that
it manufactures one of the world's broadest ranges of products derived from oxo
aldehydes.  The PCI segment's other intermediate products include
plasticizers and glycols.  Many of the intermediates products in the
PCI segment are priced based on supply and demand of substitute and competing
products.  In order to maintain a competitive position, the Company
strives to operate with a low cost manufacturing base.



The PCI
segment also manufactures performance chemicals, complex organic molecules such
as diketene derivatives, specialty ketones, and specialty anhydrides for
pharmaceutical, fiber, and food and beverage ingredients, which are typically
used in specialty market applications.  These specialty products are
typically priced based on value added rather than supply and demand
factors.



·Strategy
      and Innovation



To build
on and maintain its status as a low cost producer, the PCI segment continuously
focuses on cost control, operational efficiency, and capacity utilization to
maximize earnings.  The shutdown of the first of the three cracking
units in Longview, Texas, as part of the staged phase-out of our oldest
crackers, with the continued shutdown dependent on feedstock and olefins market
conditions, has been part of the initiative to increase operational
efficiency.  Through the PCI segment, the Company maximizes the
advantage of its highly integrated and world-scale manufacturing
facilities.  For example, the Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing
facility allows the PCI segment to produce acetic anhydride and other acetyl
derivatives from coal rather than natural gas or other petroleum
feedstocks.  At the Longview, Texas manufacturing facility, Eastman's
PCI segment uses its proprietary oxo-technology in the world's largest
single-site, oxo aldehyde manufacturing facility to produce a wide range of
alcohols, esters, and other derivative products utilizing local propane and
ethane supplies, as well as purchased propylene.  These integrated
facilities, combined with large scale production processes and a continuous
focus on additional process improvements, allow the PCI segment to remain cost
competitive with, and for some products cost-advantaged over, its
competitors.



The PCI
segment selectively focuses on continuing to develop and access markets with
high-growth potential for the Company's chemicals.  One such market is
for flexible plastic products used in sensitive applications such as toys, child
care articles, medical packaging and devices, and food
contact.  Eastman 168TMplasticizer
provides an effective alternative to ortho-phthalate plasticizers traditionally
used in these applications.  Eastman 168TMplasticizer
allows manufacturers to meet the challenging requirements of changing government
regulations and consumer preferences without sacrificing production efficiency
or product performance.



The
Company engages in customer-focused research and development initiatives in
order to develop new PCI products and find additional applications for existing
products.  The Company also evaluates licensing opportunities for
acetic acid and oxo derivatives on a selective basis, and has licensed
technology to produce acetyl products to Saudi International Petrochemical
Company ("SIPCHEM") in Saudi Arabia and to Chang Chun Petrochemical Company
("Chang Chun") in Taiwan in 2005 and 2007, respectively.  SIPCHEM
started operations in 2009 at its plant based on this technology and Chang Chun
is in the process of building its plant.  In first half of 2010, the
Company expects to achieve the final milestones associated with the SIPCHEM
agreement and to recognize the remaining revenue related to the
license.  The Company will also purchase acetic anhydride from the
SIPCHEM facility.








·Customers
      and Markets



The PCI
segment's products are used in a variety of markets and end uses, including
agrochemical, transportation, beverages, nutrition, pharmaceuticals, coatings,
flooring, medical devices, toys, photographic and imaging, household products,
polymers, textiles, and industrials.  Because of its cost position,
reliability, and service, the Company has been able to establish and maintain
long-term arrangements and relationships with
customers.  Product-specific olefin derivative market conditions vary
based upon prevailing supply and demand conditions.  An important
trend for the PCI segment's business is a tendency toward regionalization of key
markets due to increased transportation costs and local supply in developing
geographies from new capacities.  The PCI segment benefits from this
trend primarily in the U.S. and Canada, but may lose export volume to other
markets as this trend continues.  The anhydride purchased from the new
SIPCHEM facility will give increased access to the Asian market for PCI
products.  Additionally, the PCI segment is engaged in continuous
efforts to optimize product and customer mix.  Approximately 80
percent of the PCI segment's sales revenue in 2009 was from 112 out of
approximately 900 customers worldwide.



·Competition



Historically,
there have been significant barriers to entry for potential competitors in the
PCI segment's major product lines, including acetic acid and acetic anhydride,
primarily due to the fact that the relevant technology has been held by a small
number of companies.  As this technology has become more readily
available, competition from multinational chemical manufacturers has
intensified.  Eastman competes with these and other producers
primarily based on price, as products are generally interchangeable, but also on
technology, marketing, and services.  Eastman's major competitors in
this segment include large multinational companies such as BASF, Celanese, Dow,
and Exxon Mobil Corporation.  While some competitors in PCI's product
markets may have greater financial resources than Eastman, the Company believes
it maintains a strong competitive position due to the combination of its scale
of operations, breadth of product line, level of integration, and technology
leadership.



PERFORMANCE
POLYMERS SEGMENT



·Overview



In 2009,
the Performance Polymers segment had sales revenue of $719 million, representing
14 percent of the Company's total sales.  The segment is comprised
primarily of the Company's PET product lines, and also includes various polymer
intermediates.



In 2008,
the Company completed strategic actions intended to improve the operating
results of the Performance Polymers segment.  The Company shut down
300,000 metric tons of higher cost assets in 2008 after having shut down 100,000
metric tons of higher cost PET assets during 2007, some of which were converted
to Specialty Plastics production.  In fourth quarter 2008, the Company
also completed a debottleneck of its IntegRexTMtechnology facility in South Carolina, bringing its IntegRexTMcapacity to 525,000 metric tons.  Operational difficulties following
this debottleneck persisted throughout 2009.  These operational
difficulties resulted in additional costs as well as negative impact on sales
revenue through an unfavorable shift in customer and market mix contributing to
an operating loss for the year.  The Company completed a shutdown of the
facility in fourth quarter 2009 to correct these problems.  In first
quarter 2010, the IntegRexTM-based
facility located in Columbia, South Carolina is demonstrating the capability to
produce improved quality ParaStarTMPET
products at the facility's nameplate capacity of 525,000 metric tons.  The
Company expects smaller Performance Polymers segment losses in 2010 based on
this improved operational performance and the resulting capability for a more
profitable mix of product sales.



The
Company's PET product pricing and profitability have historically been most
affected by raw material costs and industry capacity utilization.  PET
global supply has exceeded demand since 1997 as a result of capacity being
introduced into the market at a rate exceeding that of demand
growth.  While the global demand for PET continues to increase
steadily, the Company sells PET primarily in the North American Free Trade
Agreement ("NAFTA") region, which is projected to have lower Gross Domestic
Product ("GDP") and PET demand growth than the overall global PET
market.  Excess Asian PET capacity and related exports are expected to
continue to have an adverse impact on PET pricing and profitability worldwide,
particularly in the NAFTA region.  In addition, a significant capacity
expansion by a competitor in late 2009 is expected to contribute to a continued
challenging business environment and negatively impact PET profitability in the
NAFTA region.






·Products



PET is
used in beverage and food packaging and other applications such as personal care
and cosmetics packaging, health care and pharmaceutical uses, household
products, carpet fibers, and industrial packaging applications.  PET
offers fast and easy processing, superb clarity and color consistency,
durability and strength, impact and chemical resistance, and high heat
stability.  Packages made from PET are characterized by their light
weight, gloss, high strength, durability, clarity, low cost, safety, and
recyclability.



·Strategy
      and Innovation



ØOperational
      Efficiency

The
Performance Polymers segment focuses on improving its performance by directing
its research and development efforts to lowering its manufacturing costs through
technology innovations and process improvement.  These efforts
resulted in the development of IntegRexTMtechnology, a lower cost PTA and PET manufacturing process that provides
manufacturing and capital cost savings compared to conventional
technologies.



ØLicensing

As a
strategic initiative to create and capture additional value from the IntegRex™
technology, the Company is actively pursuing a licensing
program.  IntegRex™ technology provides significant capital and
operating cost benefits relative to conventional PTA and PET technologies. 
The Company is offering licensees use of its Eastman-owned patents and expertise
in the design, construction, and operation of a full range of production
facilities, including IntegRex™ PTA, IntegRex™ PET, or integrated configurations
of the two processes.  Also, as the Company improves the IntegRex™
technology for its own use, it expects it may offer these enhancements to its
licensees.



·Customers
      and Markets



Approximately
20 customers within the Performance Polymers segment accounted for more than 80
percent of the segment's total sales revenue from continuing operations in
2009.  The segment serves PET customers in the NAFTA region who are
primarily PET container producers for large volume beverage markets such as
carbonated soft drinks, water, and juice, with strong participation in custom
areas such as food, liquor, sport and fruit beverages, health and beauty aids,
and household products.  PET is a preferred material for recyclable,
single-serve containers and as a substitute for glass and aluminum
packaging.  PET market volume growth rates in the NAFTA region are
projected to be below GDP in the region for the next several years due to
reduced consumption of carbonated soft drinks and continued light weighting of
bottles, while new capacity has been added by a competitor in the
U.S.  Although near-term growth in demand is uncertain, the Company
projects the demand in the NAFTA region for PET to grow by approximately two to
three percent annually on a long-term basis.



·Competition



The
Company's PET product lines compete to a large degree on price in a capital
intensive industry.  Profitability is dependent on attaining low cost
positions through technology innovation, manufacturing scale, capacity
utilization, access to reliable and competitive utilities, energy and raw
materials, and efficient manufacturing and distribution processes.



The
Company's PET production is vertically integrated back to the raw material
paraxylene.  This gives Eastman a cost advantage and reliable
intermediate supply.



As a
result of recent strategic actions, the Performance Polymers segment competes
primarily in the NAFTA region.  Major competitors in the NAFTA region
for the Performance Polymers segment include DAK Americas LLC, Indorama Group,
Invista, Mossi & Ghisolfi Group, Nan Ya Plastics Corporation, and Wellman
Inc., as well as Asian PET exporters.   Comprised of many
competitors, imports hold approximately 15 percent market share in the NAFTA
region and are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on PET pricing and
profitability due to the large excess capacity in Asia.  In 2010, a
major competitor is bringing additional capacity to the market from an expansion
in late 2009, resulting in further stress on pricing and
profitability.






SPECIALTY
PLASTICS SEGMENT



·Overview



In the
Specialty Plastics segment, the Company produces and markets specialized
copolyesters and cellulosic plastics that possess differentiated performance
properties for value-added end uses.  In 2009, the Specialty Plastics
segment had sales revenue of $749 million, approximately 15 percent of Eastman's
total sales.



Eastman
has the ability within its Specialty Plastics segment to modify its polymers and
plastics to control and customize their final properties, creating numerous
opportunities for new application development, including the expertise to
develop new materials and new applications starting from the molecular level in
the research laboratory to the final designed application.  Recent
industry trends in various markets have renewed customers' interest in some of
the unique attributes offered by Eastman materials.  Such trends
include, but are not limited to, interest in halogen-free and bisphenol A
("BPA")-free plastics, as well as plastics that have superior chemical and
mechanical properties to withstand increasing demands in specific
applications.  The addition of the Eastman Tritan™ family of products
significantly enhances the segment's ability to customize copolyesters and
cellulosic plastics for new markets and applications.  In addition,
the Specialty Plastics segment has a long history of manufacturing excellence
with strong process improvement programs providing continuing cost
reduction.



·Products



The
Specialty Plastics segment consists of two primary product lines, specialty
copolyesters and cellulosics.  Eastman estimates that the market
growth for copolyesters will continue to be higher than general domestic
economic growth due to ongoing specialty copolyester material innovations and
displacement opportunities.  Eastman believes that cellulosic
materials will grow at the rate of the domestic economy in general, with the
strong demand for cellulose esters in liquid crystal displays more than
offsetting the decline in legacy photographic markets.  For both
specialty copolyesters and cellulosic plastics, the Specialty Plastics segment
benefits from integration into the Company's polyester and acetyls
streams.  The Specialty Plastics segment's specialty copolyesters are
currently produced in Kingsport, Tennessee; Columbia, South Carolina; and
Kuantan, Malaysia.  The cellulosic products are produced in Kingsport,
Tennessee.



ØSpecialty
      Copolyesters

Eastman's
specialty copolyesters accounted for approximately 80 percent of the Specialty
Plastics segment's 2009 sales revenue.  Eastman's specialty
copolyesters, which generally are based on Eastman's production of cyclohexane
dimethanol ("CHDM") modified polymers, typically fill a market position between
polycarbonates and acrylics.  Polycarbonates traditionally have
offered some superior performance characteristics, while acrylics have been less
expensive.  Specialty copolyesters combine superior performance with
competitive pricing and are being substituted for both polycarbonates and
acrylics in some applications.



The
Specialty Plastics segment continues to develop new applications for its core
copolyesters to meet growing demand for more environmentally-friendly
copolyester products.  During 2009, Eastman commercialized a new
copolyester for the personal care packaging segment, which now represents the
clearest copolyester with the highest chemical resistance used in this
application.  The segment also experienced significant growth in
copolyesters for clear handleware applications, where Eastman's materials offer
a unique merchandising solution.  Through broadening its Embrace™
family of products, Eastman has continued to see growth in shrink packaging in
Embace LV™ as well as Embrace HY™.  The family of offerings in the
shrink segment has made Eastman the leading provider of resins for full body
shrink labels.  Eastman's newest copolyester, Tritan™, enables the
Company to move to higher value applications by adding high temperature
resistance to the other properties of copolyesters, including toughness,
chemical resistance, and excellent processability.






ØCellulosic
      Plastics

Cellulosics
and cellulosic plastics accounted for approximately 20 percent of the Specialty
Plastics segment's 2009 sales revenue.  Sold under the TeniteTMbrand, these products are known for their excellent balance of properties,
including toughness, hardness, strength, surface gloss, clarity, chemical
resistance, and warmth to the touch.  This product line includes
TeniteTMacetate, TeniteTMbutyrate, and TeniteTMpropionate flake and polymers, as well as a family of colored products for each
line.



In 2006,
Eastman first commercialized a new family of cellulosic polymers, VisualizeTMcellulosics, for the liquid crystal display ("LCD") market.  Through
the development of new formulations and applications, Eastman's LCD product line
has continued to benefit from demand growth in the LCD market.



·Strategy
      and Innovation



The
Specialty Plastics segment is focused on providing consistent profit margins and
generating cash which the Company can reinvest in the Specialty Plastics
segment's business for continued growth.  The Company continues to
leverage the advantages of being an integrated polyester manufacturer and
expects to continue to pursue opportunities within the integrated polyester
stream.  The Company is utilizing rationalized PET assets to reduce
Specialty Plastics copolyester conversion costs and expand production with
larger scale assets.



Through
Eastman's advantaged asset position and innovation efforts around applications
development, the segment has increased specialty copolyesters sales volume to
twice U.S. GDP growth over the past 5 years.  During 2009, Eastman
significantly increased its share in the shrink film market by developing new
applications for its family of products that now include Embrace™, Embrace LV™
and Embrace HY™.  The trend of influencing the purchasing decision
with product design has also benefited Eastman's clear handleware solutions for
large containers.  Additionally, increased health concerns related to
BPA have created new opportunities for various applications for legacy
copolyesters.  Also during 2009, Eastman developed a proprietary
copolyester resin for the coating of hard surfaces.  This surface
offers a low VOC, paintable and highly durable alternative to current coating
technologies.



The LCD
market is a developing growth market for the Specialty Plastics
segment.  The Company continues to invest in the development of
copolyester and cellulosic-based product solutions for this high-growth market,
with the objective of being a strategic raw material supplier in the LCD
market.  The downturn which began during the fourth quarter 2008 in
the LCD industry created renewed interest in solutions that provide an optimum
balance between cost and performance, and Eastman's developmental product
pipeline in LCDs we believe is now well positioned for anticipated growth in
this market.



The
addition of Tritan™ copolyester to Eastman's Specialty Plastics product offering
has created new opportunities for applications previously occupied by materials
such as polycarbonate or polysulfone.  During 2009, Eastman has gained
substantial market share in certain food contact applications such as water
bottles and other consumer houseware applications through OEMs and brand owners
requirement for Tritan™ copolyester properties.  The construction of a
new monomer facility as well as a new polymer facility was completed in
2009.  Both facilities will be operational in early
2010.  The monomer facility will produce a proprietary monomer
required in the production of Tritan™ copolyester while the polymer facility
will be capable of producing 30,000 metric tons of Tritan™
polymer.  Given the successful market introduction of Tritan™
copolyester and rapid demand growth, the monomer facility was designed to be
capable of supplying a second Tritan™ copolyester manufacturing facility of
30,000 metric tons per year.  The timing for the construction of the
second Tritan™ polyester facility is dependent on the market adoption rate for
these products.



·Customers
      and Markets



The
customer base in the Specialty Plastics segment is broad and diverse, consisting
of approximately 620 companies worldwide in a variety of
industries.  Approximately 80 percent of the Specialty Plastics
segment's 2009 sales revenue was attributable to approximately 65
customers.  The Specialty Plastics segment seeks to develop mutually
beneficial relationships with its customers throughout various stages of product
life cycles.  By doing so, it is better able to understand its
customers' needs as those customers develop new products and more effectively
bring new solutions to market.






Specialty
copolyesters are sold into a wide range of markets and applications including
specialty packaging (medical and electronic component trays, shrink label films,
general purpose packaging, and multilayer films); in-store fixtures and displays
(point of purchase displays including indoor sign and store fixtures); consumer
and durable goods (appliances, housewares, toys, and sporting goods); medical
goods (disposable medical devices, health care equipment and instruments, and
pharmaceutical packaging); personal care and consumer packaging (food and
beverage packaging and consumer packaging); photographic film, optical film,
fibers/nonwovens, tapes/labels, and LCD.  The new Tritan™ family of
products is being sold into a range of markets including, but not limited to,
consumer housewares, infant care, small appliances and other consumer durables
segments.  Additional applications and markets are currently under
development.



·Competition





The
Specialty Plastics segment believes that it maintains competitive advantages
throughout the product life cycle.  At product introduction, the
segment's breadth of offerings combined with its research and development
capabilities and customer service orientation enable it to quickly bring a wide
variety of products to market.  As products enter the growth phase of
the life cycle, the Specialty Plastics segment is able to continue to leverage
its product breadth by generating sales revenue from multiple sources, as well
as retaining customers from long-term relationships.  As products
become more price sensitive, the Specialty Plastics segment can take advantage
of Eastman's scale of operations, including conversion of rationalized PET
assets and vertical integration to maintain a superior product conversion cost
position.



In recent
years, the industry has been confronted by unprecedented raw material cost
volatility.  While raw material cost volatility is expected to
continue into the future, Eastman maintains a competitive advantage from
diversification of its raw materials base by using both coal for cellulosics, as
well as petrochemical-based feedstocks for copolyesters.



Eastman's
primary competitors for copolyester products include Bayer AG, Dow, Evonvik
Industries, Saudi Basic Industries Corporation ("SABIC"), and SK Chemical
Industries.  Competition for cellulosic plastics is primarily from
other producers of cellulose ester polymers such as Acetati SpA and
Daicel.






REGIONAL
BUSINESS OVERVIEW



Eastman
operates as a global business with approximately 45 percent of its sales and 50
percent of its operating earnings, excluding asset impairments and restructuring
charges, generated from outside of the U.S. and Canadian region in
2009.  As the Company focuses on growth in emerging markets, these
percentages are expected to increase.  While manufacturing is centered
in the U.S., the Company has the ability to transport products globally to meet
demand.  In 2009, all regions were affected by the global recession,
but the degree of the impact on the various regions was dependent on the mix of
the Company's segments in the region.  Regions are classified as
United States and Canada; Asia Pacific; Europe, Middle East, and Africa; and
Latin America.  In 2009, the mix of regional revenue from the segments was
as follows:



United
      States and CanadaAsia
      PacificEurope,
      Middle East, and AfricaLatin
      AmericaCASPI25
      %20
      %35
      %25
      %Fibers10
      %45
      %30
      %15
      %PCI30
      %20
      %15
      %20
      %Performance
      Polymers20
      %--
      %--
      %35
      %Specialty
      Plastics15
      %15
      %20
      %5
      %Total100
      %100
      %100
      %100
      %



The
United States and Canada region contains the highest concentration of the
Company's long-lived assets with approximately 90 percent located in the United
States.  We believe that the location of these manufacturing
facilities provides the Company with an advantaged delivered cost position
for our domestic customers, particularly for commodity and bulk
products.  The PCI segment accounts for approximately one-third of the
region's revenue, as the segment is well-positioned in this region's market for
most of its major products, including acetic acid and acetic
anhydride.  As the PCI and Performance Polymers segments account for
one-half of the region's revenue, the region is subject to increased variability
in revenues due to the effect of raw material and energy prices on these
segments' selling prices.



A large
percentage of revenue in the Asia Pacific region is from acetate tow products in
the Fibers segment while minimal PET products in the Performance Polymers
segment are sold in the region.  Both factors contribute to less
volatile price effect on revenue.  The region consists of many
emerging growth markets served by Eastman products, including specialty products
in the CASPI segment and acetate tow for filters, particularly in
China.  The Company is responding to the growth by strengthening its
position through joint ventures and acquisitions such as the alliance with
SK.



The
Europe, Middle East, and Africa region benefits from fewer sales from commodity
product lines than any other region and therefore is less affected by economic
downturns and price is less dependent on raw material costs compared to other
regions.  The favorable product mix is a result of a higher percentage
of the region's revenue being derived from the Fibers and Specialty Plastics
segments and less from the PCI and Performance Polymers segments.



The Latin
America region has the largest impact from the Performance Polymers segment of
all the regions.  Combined with sales revenue from the PCI segment of
approximately 20 percent, the region is subject to increased volatility in sales
volume and selling prices.



CORPORATE
INITIATIVES



In
addition to its business segments, the Company manages certain costs and
initiatives at the corporate level, including certain research and development
("R&D") costs not allocated to any one operating segment.  The
Company uses a disciplined decision making framework for evaluating targeted
opportunities.






One such
corporate initiative was the Company's Beaumont, Texas industrial gasification
project.  In fourth quarter 2009, the Company announced the
discontinuation of this project.  However, the Company continues to
explore global industrial gasification opportunities as a long-term growth
option.  The Company also continues to explore and invest in R&D
initiatives that are aligned with macro trends in sustainability, consumerism,
and energy efficiency through high performance materials, advanced cellulosics,
environmentally-friendly chemistry, and process improvements.



In 2009,
operating losses for corporate initiatives were $217 million, including $179
million in asset impairments related to the discontinuance of its Beaumont,
Texas industrial gasification project, compared with $52 million in
2008.



EASTMAN
CHEMICAL COMPANY GENERAL INFORMATION



Sales, Marketing, and
Distribution



The
Company markets and sells products primarily through a global marketing and
sales organization which has a presence in the United States and in over 35
other countries selling into approximately 100 countries around the
world.  Eastman has a marketing and sales strategy targeting
industries and applications where Eastman products and services provide
differentiated value.  Market, customer, and technical expertise are
critical capabilities.  Through a highly skilled and specialized sales
force that is capable of providing customized business solutions for each of its
five operating segments, Eastman is able to establish long-term customer
relationships and strives to become the preferred supplier of specialty
chemicals and plastics worldwide.



The
Company's products are also marketed through indirect channels, which include
distributors and contract representatives.  Non-U.S. sales tend to be
made more frequently through distributors and contract representatives than U.S.
sales.  The combination of direct and indirect sales channels,
including sales online through its website, allows Eastman to reliably serve
customers throughout the world.



The
Company's products are shipped to customers directly from Eastman's
manufacturing plants, as well as from distribution centers
worldwide.



Sources
and Availability of Raw Material and Energy



Eastman
purchases a substantial portion, estimated to be approximately 75 percent, of
its key raw materials and energy through long-term contracts, generally of three
to five years in initial duration with renewal or cancellation options for each
party.  Most of these agreements do not require the Company to
purchase materials or energy if its operations are reduced or
idle.  The cost of raw materials and energy is generally based on
market price at the time of purchase, and Eastman uses derivative financial
instruments, valued at quoted market prices, to mitigate the impact of
short-term market price fluctuations.  Key raw materials include
propane, ethane, paraxylene, ethylene glycol, PTA, coal, cellulose, methanol,
and a wide variety of precursors for specialty organic
chemicals.   Key purchased energy sources include natural gas,
steam, coal, and electricity.  The Company has multiple suppliers for
most key raw materials and energy and uses quality management principles, such
as the establishment of long-term relationships with suppliers and on-going
performance assessment and benchmarking, as part of its supplier selection
process.  When appropriate, the Company purchases raw materials from a
single source supplier to maximize quality and cost improvements, and has
developed contingency plans designed to minimize the impact of any supply
disruptions from single source suppliers.



While
temporary shortages of raw materials and energy may occasionally occur, these
items are generally sufficiently available to cover current and projected
requirements.  However, their continuous availability and cost are
subject to unscheduled plant interruptions occurring during periods of high
demand, or due to domestic or world market and political conditions, changes in
government regulation, natural disasters, war or other outbreak of hostilities
or terrorism or other political factors, or breakdown or degradation of
transportation infrastructure.  Eastman's operations or products have
been in the past and may be in the future, at times, adversely affected by these
factors.  The Company's raw material and energy costs as a percent of
total cost of operations were approximately 60 percent in 2009 compared to 70
percent in 2008 and 2007.








Capital
Expenditures



Capital
expenditures were $310 million, $634 million, and $518 million for 2009, 2008,
and 2007, respectively.  The decreased capital spending in 2009 was
primarily due to the Company's response to the current global recession and
consisted of required maintenance and certain strategic growth initiatives
including the creation of increased capacity for Eastman TritanTMcopolyester, the front-end engineering and design for the industrial
gasification project, reconfiguration of the Longview, Texas facility, and
expansion of the Company's hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins manufacturing
capacity in Middelburg, the Netherlands.



Employees



Eastman
employs approximately 10,000 men and women worldwide.  Approximately 4
percent of the total worldwide labor force is represented by unions, mostly
outside the United States.



Customers



Eastman
has an extensive customer base and, while it is not dependent on any one
customer, loss of certain top customers could adversely affect the Company until
such business is replaced.  The top 100 customers accounted for
approximately 70 percent of the Company's 2009 sales revenue.



Intellectual
Property and Trademarks



While the
Company's intellectual property portfolio is an important Company asset which it
expands and vigorously protects globally through a combination of patents that
expire at various times, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets, neither its
business as a whole nor any particular segment is materially dependent upon any
one particular patent, trademark, copyright, or trade secret.  As a
producer of a broad and diverse portfolio of both specialty and commodity
chemicals, plastics, and fibers, Eastman owns over 750 active United States
patents and more than 1,200 active foreign patents, expiring at various times
over several years, and also owns over 2,500 active worldwide trademark
applications and registrations.  The Company's intellectual property
relates to a wide variety of products and processes.  Eastman
continues to actively protect its intellectual property.As the laws of many
countries do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of
the United States, Eastman cannot ensure that it will be able to adequately
protect its intellectual property assets outside the United States.



The
Company pursues opportunities to license proprietary technology to third parties
in areas where it has determined competitive impact to core businesses will be
minimal.These
arrangements typically are structured to require payments at significant project
milestones such as signing, completion of design, and start-up.  To date,
efforts have been focused on acetyls technology in the PCI segment.  The
Company also is actively pursuing licensing opportunities for oxo derivatives in
the PCI segment and its IntegRexTMtechnology in the Performance Polymers segment.



Research
and Development



For 2009,
2008, and 2007, Eastman's research and development expenses totaled $137
million, $158 million, and $156 million, respectively.



Environmental



Eastman
is subject to significant and complex laws, regulations, and legal requirements
relating to the use, storage, handling, generation, transportation, emission,
discharge, disposal, and remediation of, and exposure to, hazardous and
non-hazardous substances and wastes in all of the countries in which it does
business.  These health, safety, and environmental considerations are
a priority in the Company's planning for all existing and new products and
processes.  The Health, Safety, Environmental and Security Committee
of Eastman's Board of Directors oversees the Company's policies and practices
concerning health, safety, and the environment and its processes for complying
with related laws and regulations, and monitors related matters.










The
Company's policy is to operate its plants and facilities in a manner that
protects the environment and the health and safety of its employees and the
public.  The Company intends to continue to make expenditures for
environmental protection and improvements in a timely manner consistent with its
policies and with the technology available.  In some cases, applicable
environmental regulations such as those adopted under the U.S. Clean Air Act and
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and related actions of regulatory
agencies, determine the timing and amount of environmental costs incurred by the
Company.  Likewise, when finalized, proposed legislation related to
climate change and implementing regulations could impact the timing and amount
of environmental costs incurred by the Company.



The
Company accrues environmental costs when it is probable that the Company has
incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  In
some instances, the amount cannot be reasonably estimated due to insufficient
information, particularly as to the nature and timing of future
expenditures.  In these cases, the liability is monitored until such
time that sufficient data exists.  With respect to a contaminated
site, the amount accrued reflects the Company's assumptions about remedial
requirements at the site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions
with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at
multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially
responsible parties.  Changes in the estimates on which the accruals
are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health,
safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations, and testing
requirements could result in higher or lower costs.



The
Company's cash expenditures related to environmental protection and improvement
were estimated to be approximately $173 million, $218 million, and $209 million,
in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.  These amounts were primarily
for operating costs associated with environmental protection equipment and
facilities, but also included expenditures for construction and
development.  The Company does not expect future environmental capital
expenditures arising from requirements of recently promulgated environmental
laws and regulations to materially increase the Company's planned level of
annual capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.



Other
matters concerning health, safety, and the environment are discussed in
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations in Part II Item 7 and in Notes 1, "Significant Accounting Policies",
12, "Environmental Matters", and 25, "Reserve Rollforwards" to the
Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual
Report.



Backlog



On
January 1, 2010 and 2009, Eastman's backlog of firm sales orders represented
less than 10 percent of the Company's total consolidated revenue for the
previous year.  These orders are primarily short-term and all orders
are expected to be filled in the following year.  The Company manages
its inventory levels to control the backlog of products depending on customers'
needs.  In areas where the Company is the single source of supply, or
competitive forces or customers' needs dictate, the Company may carry additional
inventory to meet customer requirements.



Financial
Information About Geographic Areas



For sales
revenue and long-lived assets by geographic areas, see Note 22, "Segment
Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II,
Item 8 of this Annual Report.  For information about regional sales
and earnings, see "Regional Business Overview" above in this "Business" section
of this Annual Report.



Available
Information – SEC Filings and Corporate Governance Materials



The
Company makes available free of charge, through the "Investors – SEC
Information" section of its Internet website (www.eastman.com), its annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form
8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably
practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to,
the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").  Once filed with
the SEC, such documents may be read and/or copied at the SEC's Public Reference
Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers, including Eastman Chemical Company, that electronically file
with the SEC at www.sec.gov.






The
Company also makes available free of charge, through the "Investors – Corporate
Governance" section of its Internet website (www.eastman.com), the Corporate
Governance Guidelines of its Board of Directors, the charters of each of the
committees of the Board, and codes of ethics and business conduct for directors,
officers and employees.  Such materials are also available in print
upon the written request of any stockholder to Eastman Chemical Company, P.O.
Box 431, Kingsport, Tennessee 37662-5280, Attention: Investor
Relations.

