Item 1A.Risk Factors.



Risks Related to the Company's Business



Risks Related to the Company's Products and Industry



The Company operates in a highly regulated industry. An inability to meet current or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position and operating results.



Several U.S. and non-U.S. agencies regulate the manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distribution, advertising and sale of the Company's products. Various state and local agencies also regulate these activities. In addition, the Company manufactures and markets certain of its products in accordance with the guidelines established by voluntary standards organizations. Should the Company or one of its third-party service providers used in the development or commercialization of products fail to adequately conform to these regulations and guidelines, there may be a material adverse impact on the operating results of the Company. Packaging, labeling or marketing changes mandated by the FDA or state and local agencies can have a material adverse impact on the results of operations of the Company. The U.S. government has enacted the Federal Drug Supply Chain Security Act ("DSCSA") that requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. Compliance with DSCSA and future U.S. federal or state electronic pedigree requirements may increase the Company's operational expenses and impose significant administrative burdens.



Required changes could also be related to safety or efficacy issues. Similarly, the failure by the Company or one of its suppliers to comply with manufacturing, quality and testing guidelines and regulations could have a significant adverse impact on the Company's operating results. There is also the risk that the FDA could require the Company to audit or repeat prior bioequivalence or clinical studies or the FDA could change or withdraw the approval governing such products, which could have a material adverse impact on the results of the Company's operations. The Company believes that it generally has a good relationship with the FDA, which it intends to maintain. If these relationships should deteriorate, however, the Company's ability to bring new and current products to market could be impeded.



All U.S. facilities where Rx, infant formula, dietary supplements and OTC drugs are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored or distributed must comply with FDA cGMPs. All of the Company's ANDA, NDA and OTC drug products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored and distributed according to cGMP regulations. The FDA performs periodic audits to ensure that the Company's facilities remain in compliance with all applicable regulations.    If it finds violations of cGMP, the FDA could make its concerns public and could impose sanctions including, among others, fines, product recalls, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, suspension of the FDA's review of product applications, injunctions and civil or criminal prosecution. If imposed, enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results and financial condition. Under certain circumstances, the FDA also has the authority to revoke previously granted drug approvals. Although the Company has internal compliance programs in place that it believes are adequate, the FDA may conclude that these programs do not meet regulatory standards. If compliance is deemed deficient in any significant way, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.












The FDA's policy regarding the award of a 180-day market exclusivity period to generic manufacturers who successfully challenge patents relating to specific products continues to be the subject of extensive litigation in the U.S. The FDA's current interpretation of Hatch-Waxman is to award 180 days of exclusivity to the first generic manufacturer who files a successful Paragraph IV certification under Hatch-Waxman challenging the patent(s) of the branded product, regardless of whether the manufacturer was sued for patent infringement. Although the FDA's interpretation may benefit some of the products in the Company's pipeline, it may adversely affect others. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 provides that the 180-day market exclusivity period provided under Hatch-Waxman is triggered by the commercial marketing of the product. However, the Medicare Prescription Drug Act also contains forfeiture provisions which, if met, will deprive the first Paragraph IV filer of exclusivity. Additionally, the manufacturer of the branded product may launch a generic version of its own drug, known as an authorized generic. Under certain circumstances, the Company may not be able to fully exploit its 180-day exclusivity period resulting from it being the first filer.



Under the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, the FDA has the power to restrict medications that raise serious safety concerns. This law requires, and provides funding for, the FDA to monitor drugs after they go on the market. In addition, this law requires companies to make public the results of many of their studies. Under this law, the FDA has the authority to require new studies, limit distribution or order label changes. Because of this law, the Company's ability to bring new and current products to market could be impeded, which could have a negative material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.




, the Company's annual sales for such unapproved products were approximately $36 million.



The Nonprescription Drug Advisory Committee met in December 2007 to discuss the efficacy of phenylephrine, an active ingredient used in various cough and cold products as a nasal decongestant. The advisory committee vote recommended that available data is "supportive" of the efficacy of phenylephrine at 10 milligrams. In addition, the advisory committee recommended additional evidence to support the efficacy of a 10 milligram dose of phenylephrine. The recommendations by the advisory committee are not binding on the FDA. It is not known at this time what, if any, further action the FDA or industry will take in response to recommendations of the advisory committee.  In fiscal2014, products containing phenylephrine generated revenues of approximately$77.7 million.



In October 2007, the FDA convened a joint meeting of the Pediatric and Nonprescription Drugs Advisory committees to discuss the safety and efficacy of OTC cough and cold products for use in children. The advisory committees recommended that these products no longer be used in children under the age of six. On October 8, 2008, the FDA issued a statement supporting the voluntary action of the Consumer Healthcare Product Association ("CHPA"), of which the Company is a member, to modify product labels for consumers of OTC cough and cold medicines to state "do not use" in children under four years of age. The Company completed the CHPA recommended revisions to all OTC cough and cold products in April 2010. The FDA has not issued any further guidance about the labeling of OTC cough and cold medicines in children two years of age and older. Sales of the Company's pediatric cough and cold products could be adversely affected should the FDA adopt the more restrictive recommendations of the advisory committee.



The Company's activities with respect to its infant formula products also may be subject to barriers or sanctions imposed by countries or international organizations limiting international trade and dictating the specific










content of infant formula products. In addition, regulatory changes or decisions that restrict the manufacture, labeling and availability of the Company's infant formula products could affect the Company's results of operations. For example, certain governmental agencies, non-governmental organizations and consumer advocates have lobbied against the marketing and sale of some infant formula products. These efforts could result in increased regulatory restrictions or enforcement. The U.S. government will likely continue to enhance its regulations on the industry aimed to ensure the safety and quality of dairy products, including, but not limited to, compulsory batch-by-batch inspection and testing for additional safety and quality issues. Such inspections and testing may increase the Company's operating costs related to its infant formula products.  Additionally, the FDA is beginning to scrutinize claims on infant formula labels. Labeling changes required for regulatory compliance could render packaging inventories obsolete.



The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act ("FDASIA") was signed into law on July 9, 2012. The law established, among other things, new user fee statutes for generic drugs and biosimilars, FDA authority concerning drug shortages, changes to enhance the FDA's inspection authority of the drug supply chain, and a limited extension of the generic drug paragraph IV 30-month stay provision. The FDASIA also reduced the time required for FDA responses to generic blocking citizen petitions. The Company implemented new systems and processes to comply with the new facility self-identification and user fee requirements of FDASIA. The Company monitors facility self-identification and fee payment compliance to mitigate the risk of potential supply chain interruptions or delays in regulatory approval of new applications.



On August 1, 2013, the FDA released a Drug Safety Communication notifying the public of an association between acetaminophen and the risk of rare, but serious, skin reactions (reddening of the skin, rash, blisters, detachment of the skin's upper surface).  This resulted from a review of the FDA adverse event database (1969-2012) and reports in the medical literature.  Other prescription and OTC drugs used to treat fever and pain/body aches (e.g., non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDS, such as ibuprofen and naproxen) also carry the risk of causing serious skin reactions, which is already described in the warnings section of their drug labels. As a result of these findings, the FDA has required the addition of a warning addressing serious skin reactions to prescription drug products containing acetaminophen.  The FDA has also requested that manufacturers of acetaminophen OTC products marketed under a new drug applicationor under the OTC monograph add a similar warning.  The warning has not materialized or resulted in a change in product sales.



On June 10, 2014, the FDA published a final rule ("FR") entitled "Current Good Manufacturing Practices, Quality Control Procedures, Quality Factors, Notification Requirements, and Records and Reports, for Infant Formula." The FR includes, among other things, new or modified requirements related to infant formula manufacturing, quality controls, record-keeping, and clinical trials. While it is uncertain how the FDA will interpret and enforce the FR, the Company is taking steps to comply with the provisions of the FR. Compliance with the FR may require significant expenditures. To the extent the FDA believes that the Company has not complied with the FR, it could lead to potential supply chain disruptions and delays in commercialization of new infant formula products, which could impede the Company’s sales and revenue and adversely affect the Company’s financial position or results of operations.



The FDA conducts non-prescription drug advisory committee meetings to evaluate the safety of introducing new prescription categories to the OTC market.  The expansion of category switches is critical to the future growth of the Company.  FDA reluctance to approve OTC switches in new product categories could impact that growth.



The Company manufactures products that are safe and effective when used in accordance with label directions; however, certain products contain ingredients that can be used for improper purposes. Additional legislation or regulation may be enacted to mitigate improper uses of these ingredients, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's sales of such products and resulting income.



The Company's products are safe and effective when used in accordance with label directions. However, certain products contain ingredients that can be, and in some cases are, used for improper purposes.  Pseudoephedrine and dextromethorphan are two of these ingredients, but others may exist. Increasingly, various efforts are employed by U.S. federal and state governments in an effort to curb this misuse, including the consideration of additional legislation or regulation that may result in further restrictive requirements for the manufacture or sale of products containing these ingredients. The Company cannot predict if or when any additional legislation or regulation will be passed and any adverse impact it may have on the Company's results of operations.












Pseudoephedrine- The Company produces a number of products that contain the active ingredient pseudoephedrine ("PSE"), which is indicated as a nasal decongestant. PSE has been under scrutiny as an ingredient illegally used to produce methamphetamine. To address this concern, legislation has been enacted at the U.S. federal level restricting the sales of PSE products (i.e., Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act) and authorizing the DEA to place quotas on the amounts of PSE raw material that can be procured (i.e., the Controlled Substances Act). At the state level, a number of states have introduced or passed legislation placing additional restrictions on the sale of PSE products. In addition, the states of Oregon and Mississippi have moved PSE products to Rx status; many localities have passed similar legislation and a few other states have considered moving PSE products to Rx status. Additionally, certain retailers have voluntarily restricted sales of single active ingredient PSE-containing products in at least one state.  Sales of PSE products could be adversely affected by action at the U.S. state or federal level to place additional restrictions on the sale of PSE products.



Dextromethorphan-The Company manufactures several products that contain the active ingredient dextromethorphan, which is indicated for cough suppression. Dextromethorphan has come under scrutiny because of its potential to be abused. Legislation has been unsuccessfully introduced at the U.S. federal level over the past few sessions of Congress that, if enacted, generally would have prohibited the bulk sale of dextromethorphan and would have imposed an age limit of 18 years old in order to purchase finished products containing dextromethorphan. Similarly, six U.S. states and a number of localities have passed legislation to prohibit the sale of dextromethorphan containing products to minors without a prescription. It is possible that other government entities could introduce and pass legislation imposing additional or different restrictions on the sale of dextromethorphan in finished dosage form, such as requiring a minimum age to purchase product.  The Company cannot predict whether any of the proposed legislation will be passed or, if it is passed, its impact on future revenues attributable to these products.



The FDA held a meeting of the Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee on September 14, 2010 to discuss the potential abuse of the drug dextromethorphan and the public health benefits and risks of dextromethorphan use as a cough suppressant in prescription and nonprescription drug products. In a 15-9 vote, an FDA advisory panel voted not to restrict dextromethorphan cough medications to prescription-only. It is possible the FDA could still recommend in the future that dextromethorphan containing products be considered a scheduled substance, which would remove their status as an OTC product. The Company cannot predict the likelihood of such activity by the FDA or any adverse impact such activity may have on the Company's results of operations. In fiscal2014, products containing dextromethorphan generated revenues of approximately$131.3 million.





Acetaminophen


, products containing acetaminophen generated revenues of approximately

$260.1 million

for the Company. The Company cannot predict whether the FDA will adopt any recommendations of the advisory committees regarding the sale and use of acetaminophen or whether any such recommendations, if adopted by the FDA, would impact future revenues attributable to these products.












U.S. federal and state healthcare reform and related changes to reimbursement methods, as well as measures in Israel and many European countries, may have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.



Increasing expenditures for healthcare have been the subject of considerable public attention in North America, Israel and many European countries. Both private and governmental entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. In many countries where the Company currently operates, pharmaceutical prices are subject to regulation. In the U.S., numerous proposals that would effect changes in the U.S. healthcare system and the pharmaceutical industry have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures that could include, but not be limited to, intellectual property, regulatory, antitrust, drug pricing and product liability issues. Similar activities are taking place throughout Europe. As a result of governmental budgetary constraints, the Israel Ministry of Health and the major Israeli health funds have sought to further reduce healthcare costs by, among other things, applying continuous pressure to reduce pharmaceutical prices and inventory levels. The Company cannot predict the nature of the measures that may be adopted, how they will be interpreted by the courts or the administrative agencies charged with enforcing them or their impact on the marketing, pricing and demand for its products.



The Company has a Medicaid rebate agreement in effect with the U.S. federal government. U.S. federal and/or state governments have enacted and are expected to continue to enact measures aimed at reducing the cost of drugs to such governmental payers as well as the public, including health reform legislation enacted in 2010. Management cannot predict the nature of such measures or their impact on the Company's profitability. Various U.S. states have in recent years also adopted supplemental drug rebate programs that are intended to provide the individual states with additional manufacturer rebates on Medicaid utilization over and above those required under a manufacturer's federal Medicaid agreement. States also have created drug coverage and corresponding manufacturer rebate programs for non-Medicaid populations, known as state pharmaceutical assistance programs. These rebate programs are generally designed to mimic the U.S. federal drug rebate program in terms of how the manufacturer rebates are calculated. Although there are a number of supplemental and state pharmacy assistance rebate programs, for the Company they are insignificant in the aggregate compared to its Medicaid drug rebate obligations.



As discussed under "

Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and Other Drug Pricing Programs



The Company encounters similar regulatory and legislative issues outside the U.S., too. In the European Union and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low direct cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored










healthcare system. Many countries are seeking to reduce their public expenditures on healthcare. These efforts may result in patient access restrictions, increased pressure on drug pricing, including denial of price increases, prospective and retrospective price decreases and increased mandatory discounts or rebates.

The Company's reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program and other governmental purchasing and rebate programs are complex and may involve subjective decisions. Any determination that the Company has failed to comply with those obligations could subject it to penalties and sanctions, which could adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations.



Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs.  The regulations regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to Medicaid reimbursement and rebates and other governmental programs are complex and are often subject to interpretation by the Company, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. The Company's calculations and methodologies are subject to review by the governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in challenges to the Company’s submissions. If there is ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments, and even in the absence of any such ambiguity, a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position that the Company has taken and may impose civil and/or criminal sanctions.  In addition, because these calculations involve, and will continue to involve, subjective decisions and complex methodologies, they are subject to the risk of errors.



Any governmental agencies that have commenced or that may commence an investigation of the Company could impose civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties and possible exclusion from U.S. federal healthcare programs (including Medicaid and Medicare). Furthermore, should there be ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments, and even in the absence of any such ambiguity, a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position that we have taken and may impose civil and/or criminal sanctions on us, as disclosed above.  Any such penalties, sanctions, or exclusion from U.S. federal healthcare programs could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of its common stock to decline.



In June 2013, the Company received notices from the Office of the Attorney General for the State of Texas, of civil investigative demands to two of the Company’s affiliates, Perrigo Pharmaceuticals Company and Paddock Laboratories, LLC, for information under the Texas Medicaid Fraud Prevention Act relating to the submission of prices to Texas Medicaid in claims for reimbursement for drugs.  The Company has cooperated with requests for information and is in the process of evaluating this and other information.  While the Company does not know the full extent of its potential liability at this time and intends to vigorously defend against any claims, the Company could be subject to material penalties and damages. The Company established a contingency loss accrual of$15.0 millionto cover potential settlement or other outcomes. The Company cannot predict whether settlement on terms acceptable to it will occur, or that a settlement or potential liability for these claims will not be greater than the amount recorded.



Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of the Company's products and any similar products distributed by other companies could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business.



The Company is dependent upon consumers' perception of the safety and quality of its products. Negative consumer perception may arise from media reports, product liability claims, regulatory investigations or recalls, regardless of whether such media reports, claims, investigations or recalls involve the Company or its products. The mere publication of information asserting defects in products or ingredients or concerns about the Company's products or the raw materials used in the Company's products could have a material adverse effect on the Company, regardless of whether such information is scientifically supported. For example, any major outbreak of illness or disease in cows could lead to a serious loss of consumer confidence in, and demand for, dairy products, including the Company's infant formula products. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether valid or not, may negatively impact consumer perceptions and may discourage consumers from buying one or more of the Company's products, such that the Company's sales may decline and the Company may suffer losses in its business.



The Company may incur liabilities or experience negative effects on its reputation as a result of any real or perceived quality issues with the Company's products. The Company's products involve risks such as product contamination, spoilage, mislabeling and tampering that could require the Company to recall one or more of its products. Serious product quality concerns could also result in governmental actions against the Company that, among other things, could result in the suspension of production or distribution of the Company's products, product










seizures, loss of certain licenses, delays in the issuance of governmental approvals for new products or other governmental penalties. Adverse publicity or negative public perception regarding the quality of the Company's products, particular ingredients, or the industries in which the Company competes could result in a substantial decrease in demand for the Company's products.



The Company cannot guarantee that counterfeiting, imitation, or other tampering with its products will not occur or that the Company will be able to detect and resolve it if it happens. Any occurrence of counterfeiting or contamination could negatively impact sales of the Company's products, particularly if counterfeit or imitation products cause death or injury to consumers of those products.



Additionally, powdered infant formula products are not sterile. All of the Company's infant formula products must be prepared and maintained according to label instruction to retain their flavor and nutritional value and avoid contamination or deterioration. Depending on the product, a risk of contamination or deterioration may exist at each stage of the production cycle, including the purchase and delivery of raw materials, the processing and packaging of food products, and the use and handling by consumers, hospital personnel and health care professionals. In the event that certain of the Company's infant formula products are found or alleged to have suffered contamination or deterioration, whether or not such products are under the Company's control, the Company's reputation and its infant formula product category could be materially adversely affected.



The Company's infant formula product category is subject to changing consumer preferences and health and nutrition-related concerns. The Company's results of operations depend, in part, on consumer preferences and choices, including the number of mothers who choose to use infant formula products rather than breastfeed their babies. To the extent that private, public and government sources may promote the benefits of breastfeeding over the use of infant formula, there could be a reduced demand for infant formula products, and the Company's infant formula products business could be adversely affected. The Company's infant formula product category may also be affected by medical research relating to the healthfulness of cow's milk in the human diet. For example, adverse research may raise concerns about the fat, cholesterol, calorie, sodium and lactose content or contamination of dairy products, including infant formula. Any significant shift in consumer preference away from the use of infant formula may materially and adversely affect the results of operations of the Company's infant formula product category. Additionally, the Company's infant formula product category could be adversely impacted by an increase in the number of families that are provided with infant formula by the U.S. federal government through the Women, Infants and Children program, as the Company does not participate in this program.



The Company believes that growth in the nutritional products business is based largely on national media attention regarding scientific research suggesting potential health benefits from regular consumption of certain vitamin and other nutritional products. There can be no assurance of future favorable scientific results and media attention, or the absence of unfavorable or inconsistent findings. In the event of future unfavorable scientific results or media attention, the Company's sales of nutritional products could be materially adversely impacted.



The Company manufactures spot-on pesticides for the monthly control of fleas, ticks, or other external parasites in dogs and cats. These products are safe and effective when used in accordance with label directions; however, pesticide ingredients may cause harm to animals and humans if used improperly. Additional regulation may be enacted to mitigate improper uses of these ingredients, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's sales of such products and resulting income.














granting new registrations, requiring more standardized reporting on adverse effects and sales, changing data requirements for pre-market clinical trials and implementing a formal post-market surveillance program. Future pet spot-on pesticide registrations and amendments to new registrations will be restricted by appropriate conditions and time-limitations to allow the EPA to continue to ensure the safety of these products after they are available to the public.



The EPA mitigation efforts for educating consumers and reducing misuse are ongoing. The Company cannot predict whether further label restrictions may be required, or whether additional regulations may be passed, or to the extent of the adverse impact additional restrictions or regulations may have on the Company's results of operations.



The manufacturing of sterile, injectable products is highly exacting and complex, and if the Company's suppliers encounter production problems, it could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.



The Company distributes sterile, injectable products that are manufactured by third parties. The manufacture of sterile, injectable products is highly complex and exacting in part due to strict regulatory and safety requirements and standards that govern both the manufacture and packaging of these types of projects. Failure of the third-party manufacturers to maintain strict controls or adherence to procedures may result in product recalls and liability claims, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and reputation.



Biogen Idec is directly responsible for the sales and distribution of Tysabri® and as a result any change in strategy by Biogen Idec or negative developments relating to Tysabri® could have a material impact on the Company’s revenues, operating income and cash flows.



The Company acquired a significant revenue stream and a$5.8 billionintangible asset related to sales of the Multiple Sclerosis drug Tysabri® with the acquisition of Elan.  The Company collects quarterly royalty payments from Biogen Idec, which is solely responsible for the sales and distribution of the drug. The Tysabri® royalty stream is expected to contribute significant revenues, operating income and cash flows to the Company’s results of operations.  Any negative developments relating toTysabri®,such as safety, efficacy or reimbursement issues, the introduction or greater acceptance of competing products, including biosimilars, or adverse regulatory or legislative developments may reduce the payments the Company receives and adversely affect the results of operations.  New competing products for use in the treatment of Multiple Sclerosis have (or will soon) entered the market, including Tecfidera for which Biogen Idec launched in the U.S. and Europe in fiscal 2014.  If any of these competing products have a similar or more attractive profile in terms of efficacy, convenience or safety, future sales ofTysabri® could be limited, which would reduce royalties received.



Tysabri®'s sales growth cannot be assured given the significant restrictions on its use and the significant safety warnings in the label, including the risk of developing Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy ("PML"), a serious brain infection.  The risk of developing PML increases with prior immunosuppressant ("IS") use, which may cause patients who have previously received IS or their physicians to refrain from using or prescribing



Tysabri®.  The risk of developing PML also increases with longer treatment duration, with limited experience beyond four years.  This may cause prescribing physicians or patients to suspend treatment with



Tysabri®.  In addition, the risk of developing PML is heightened when a patient has anti-JC virus ("JCV") antibodies.  In January 2012, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved a product label change for



Tysabri® that identifies anti-JCV antibody status as a risk factor for PML.  This risk had already been incorporated into the European label for



Tysabri® in June 2011.  Physicians have discontinued treatment and are likely to continue to discontinue treatment with



Tysabri® in patients who test positive for JCV antibodies.  Increased incidence of PML could limit sales growth, prompt regulatory review, require significant changes to the label or result in market withdrawal.  Additional regulatory restrictions on the use of



Tysabri® or safety-related label changes, including enhanced risk management programs, whether as a result of additional cases of PML or otherwise, may significantly reduce expected revenues and require significant expense and management time to address the associated legal and regulatory issues. In addition, ongoing or future clinical trials involving



Tysabri®

,

efforts at stratifying patients into groups with lower or higher risk for developing PML and the commercial availability of the JCV antibody assay may have an adverse impact on prescribing behavior and reduce sales of



Tysabri®.  Further, the utility of the JCV antibody assay may be diminished as a result of the assay’s false negative rate and because a patient who tests negative for JCV antibodies may be infected by the JCV after testing.  Any or all of the above factors could lead to volatility in the number of patients who begin or continue to use Tysabri® or discontinue the use of



Tysabri® in any period.












The Company's success is dependent, in large part, on continued store brand growth for its OTC and Nutritionals products, which is influenced by factors outside management's control. There can be no assurance that store brand market share will continue to grow; failure to achieve continued growth may adversely impact the Company's sales and resulting financial condition.



The future growth of U.S. store brand products market share will be influenced, in part, by general economic conditions, which can influence consumers to switch to and from store brand products, consumer perception and acceptance of the quality of the products available, the development of new products and/or product delivery forms, the market exclusivity periods awarded on Rx to OTC switch products and the ongoing or growing strength of the retailers' brands in the market. The OTC business does not advertise like the national brand companiesand thus is largely dependent on retailer promotional activities to drive sales volume and increase market share. Growth opportunities for the products in which the Company currently has a significant store brand market share (cough/cold/flu/allergy, analgesic, smoking cessation and gastrointestinal products) will be driven by the ability to offer new products to existing U.S. customers. Branded pharmaceutical companies may use U.S. state and federal regulatory and legislative means to limit the availability of brand equivalent products. Should store brand growth be limited by any of these factors, there could be a significant adverse impact on the operating results of the Company.



If the Company is unable to maintain adequately high levels of customer service over time, it may lose market share, and its business and operating results may be materially adversely affected.



The Company understands that maintaining high levels of customer service requires the Company to be able to deliver high quality products to its customers on a timely basis. From time to time, the Company may experience interruptions and challenges to its customer service levels due to a variety of factors that may arise.  If the Company is unable to deliver to expected customer service levels, customers may choose to assess penalties, obtain alternate sources for products, withhold new product introductions and/or end the relationship with the Company.  If the Company is unable to maintain adequately high levels of customer service over time, due to these factors or otherwise, the Company may lose market share, and its business and operating results may be materially adversely affected.



Because the Company depends upon certain customers for a significant portion of its sales, the Company's sales and income would be adversely affected by a disruption of its relationship with these customers or any material adverse change in these customers' business.



The Company believes its primary customer base aligns with the concentration of large drug retailers in the current marketplace of the retail drug industry. Sales to the Company's largest customer, Walmart, comprised approximately19%of fiscal2014net sales. Should Walmart's current relationship with the Company change adversely, the resulting loss of business could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position and results of operations. In addition, while no other customer individually comprises more than 10% of total net sales, the Company does have other significant customers. If the Company's relationship with one or more of these other customers, including the terms for doing business with the customers, changes significantly, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position and results of operations.



If the Company cannot continue to rapidly develop, manufacture and market innovative products that meet customer requirements for performance, safety and cost effectiveness, it may lose market share and its revenues may be negatively impacted.



The Company's future results of operations depend, to a significant degree, upon its ability to successfully commercialize additional OTC and generic prescription drugs and/or innovative pharmaceuticals, infant formulas and API. All pharmaceutical products must meet regulatory standards and/or receive regulatory approvals. The Company must prove that the ANDA or NDA drug products are bioequivalent to their branded counterparts, which typically requires bioequivalency studies or even more extensive clinical trials to demonstrate efficacy of topical products. The development and commercialization process, particularly with respect to innovative products, is both time consuming and costly and involves a high degree of business risk. Products currently under development, if and when fully developed and tested, may not perform as expected, may not pass required bioequivalence studies or may be the subject of intellectual property challenges, and necessary regulatory approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, if at all, and the Company may not be able to successfully and profitably produce and market such products. Delays in any part of the process or the Company's inability to obtain regulatory approval of its products (including products developed by others to which the Company has exclusive marketing rights) could adversely affect operating results by restricting or delaying its introduction of new products. Even upon the










successful development of a product, the Company's customer's failure to launch a product could adversely affect operating results. The FDA could impose higher standards and additional requirements, such as requiring more supporting data and clinical data than previously required, in order to gain FDA clearance to launch new formulations into the market. Continuous introductions of new products and product categories are critical to the Company's business. Product margins may decline over time due to the products' aging life cycles, changes in consumer choice or developments in new drug delivery technology. Therefore, new product introductions are necessary for maintenance of the Company's current financial condition, and if the Company fails to introduce and market new products, the effect on its financial results could be materially adverse.



The Company contracts with clinical research organizations ("CROs") to conduct various studies that are used to support the Company's new product development program. During the third quarter of fiscal 2013, certain of the CROs used by the Company began bankruptcy or receivership proceedings, including PRACS Institute, LLC, PRACS Institute Canada B.C. Ltd., Comprehensive Clinical Development, Inc., and their related entities. It is uncertain what, if any, impact these insolvency proceedings may have on the ability of those CROs to deliver their study results to the Company or on the Company's ability to rely on research performed by those CROs. To the extent those CROs cannot deliver their study results to the Company or the Company cannot rely, in whole or in part, on the research conducted by those CROs, it may delay the launch of new products, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's future operating results.These situations are unique and therefore it is uncertain what the position of the FDA will be towards the studies conducted by these now bankrupt CROs. The FDA may be limited in its ability to inspect the study facilities or gain access to source study documents which may result in the Company having to repeat biostudies. If these scenarios occur, it would result in approval delays.



The Company's investment in research and development is expected to increase above recent levels in dollar terms due to the Company's ongoing broadening of its OTC, ANDA or NDA, generic prescription and specialty API product portfolio, as well as several opportunities for new products that are switching or are anticipated to be switching from Rx to OTC status. The ability to attract scientists proficient in emerging delivery forms and/or contracting with a third party in order to generate new products of this type is a critical element of the Company's long-term plans. Should the Company fail to attract qualified employees, successfully develop products in a timely manner, or enter into reasonable agreements with third parties, long-term sales growth and profit would be adversely impacted.



Changes in supply relationships with the Company's customers, such as alternate sources for products, withholding new product introductions and/or development of customer store brand programs, could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position and results of operations.



Maintaining the supply relationships with the Company's customers is critical to its success. The success in recent years of private label marketing and branding programs has increased large retailers' attention to the importance of their store brand programs, and as a result, many are dedicating significant resources to auditing supplier compliance with their quality, ethical and service standards. Customers may limit the level of product sourcing with the Company in protection of the customer's own interests. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position and results of operations.



The competitive markets in which the Company operates could lead to reduced demand for its products in favor of its competitors' products, which could negatively impact its sales, gross margin, and prospects.












experience increased competition in its nutritional products business through alternative channels such as health food stores, direct mail and direct sales as more consumers obtain products through these channels. The Company has evaluated, and will continue to evaluate, the products and product categories in which it does business. Future product line extensions, or deletions, could have a material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.



Selling prices of generic drugs typically decline, sometimes dramatically, as competition intensifies due to additional companies receiving approvals for a given product or brands launching authorized generics. To the extent that the Company succeeds in being the first to market a generic version of a significant product, the Company's sales and profit can be substantially increased in the period following the introduction of such product and prior to a competitor's introduction of an equivalent product. The Company's ability to sustain its sales and profitability on any product over time is dependent on both the number of new competitors for such product, some of whom may be significantly larger than the Company, and the timing of their approvals.



Certain competitors are choosing to consolidate in the generic pharmaceutical and nutritional industries. These consolidations may create larger companies with which the Company must compete and provide further pressure on prices, development activities or customer retention. The impact of future consolidation in the industry could have a material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.



The Company's API business is subject to increased competition from other manufacturers of API located in Europe and developing countries, such as India and China. Such competition may result in loss of API customers and/or decreased profitability in this business segment.



Many companies are working to develop new therapies or alternative formulations of products for MS that, if successfully developed, would compete with Tysabri®.  A drug may be subject to competition from alternative therapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity and, thereafter, it may be subject to further competition from generic products or biosimilars.



The Company's quarterly results are impacted by a number of factors, some of which are beyond the control of management, that may result in significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results.



The Company's quarterly operating results depend on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the severity, length and timing of the cough/cold/flu season and flea and tick season, the timing of new product approvals and introductions by the Company and its competitors, price competition, changes in the regulatory environment, the magnitude and timing of research and development investments, changes in the levels of inventories maintained by the Company's customers and the timing of retailer promotional programs. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to significant and unanticipated quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in its operating results.



Changes in estimates regarding fair value of goodwill or intangible assets may result in an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations.



The Company tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if changes in circumstances or the occurrence of events suggest impairment exists. The test for impairment requires the Company to make several estimates about fair value, most of which are based on projected future cash flows. Changes in these estimates may result in the recognition of an impairment loss. The Company's testing in fiscal2014resulted in no impairment charges related to goodwill.



Other intangible assets consist of a portfolio of individual developed product technology/formulation and product rights, distribution and license agreements, customer relationships, non-compete agreements, in-process research and development ("IPR&D") and trade names and trademarks. Certain trade names and trademarks, as well as IPR&D assets, are determined to have an indefinite useful life and are not subject to amortization. For intangible assets subject to amortization, an impairment analysis is performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any individual asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its fair value. Any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicate a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known. SeeNote 3of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding impairment of intangible assets.












Lack of availability of, or significant increases in the cost of, raw materials used in manufacturing the Company's products could adversely impact its profit margins and operating results.



Affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of the Company's business units due to the nature of the products the Company manufactures. Raw materials and packaging components are generally available from multiple suppliers. Supplies of certain raw materials, bulk tablets and finished goods purchased by the Company are limited, or are available from one or only a few suppliers. In these situations, increased prices, rationing and shortages can occur. In response to these problems the Company tries to identify alternative materials or suppliers for such raw materials, bulk tablets and finished goods. FDA requirements for products approved through the ANDA or NDA process could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate material source. Certain material shortages and approval of alternate sources could adversely affect financial results. The rapid increase in cost of many raw materials from inflationary forces, such as increased energy costs, and the Company's ability or inability to pass on these increases to its customers, could have a material impact on the Company's financial results.



The Company maintains several single-source supplier relationships, either because alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to regulatory, performance, quality, support, or price considerations. Unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect the Company's ability to ship the related product in a timely manner. The effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with the Company's higher volume or more profitable products. Even where alternative sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or result in delays and a loss of revenues. As a result, the loss of a single-source supplier could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.



In addition, raw materials purchased from third parties, including those from foreign countries, may contain counterfeit ingredients or other adulterants. The Company maintains a strict program of verification and product testing throughout the ingredient sourcing and manufacturing process to identify potential counterfeit ingredients, adulterants and toxic substances. Nevertheless, discovery of previously unknown problems with the raw materials or product manufacturing processes or new data suggesting an unacceptable safety risk associated therewith, could result in a voluntary or mandatory withdrawal of the contaminated product from the marketplace, either temporarily or permanently. Any future recall or removal would result in additional costs to the Company and lost revenue and may give rise to product liability litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the operating results of the Company.





The Company's products, and the raw materials used to make those products, generally have limited shelf lives. The Company's inventory levels are based, in part, on expectations regarding future sales. The Company may experience build-ups in inventory if sales slow. Any significant shortfall in sales may result in higher inventory levels of raw materials and finished products, thereby increasing the risk of inventory spoilage and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs, which may materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations. Cargo thefts and/or diversions and economically or maliciously motivated product tampering on store shelves may be experienced from time to time, causing unexpected shortages.












If the Company is unable to successfully obtain the necessary quota for controlled substances and List 1 chemicals, there is risk of delayed product launches or failure to meet commercial supply obligations. If the Company is unable to comply with regulatory requirements for controlled substances and List 1 chemicals, the DEA may take regulatory actions, resulting in temporary or permanent interruption of distribution, withdrawal of products from the market or other penalties.



Controlled substances and List 1 chemicals are subject to DEA regulation under the Controlled Substances Act. DEA quota requirements can limit the amount of controlled substances and List 1 chemicals a manufacturer may produce, the amount of API it may use to manufacture those products and the amount of controlled substance products and List 1 chemicals a packager may package. If the Company is unable to successfully obtain the quota amounts, there is the risk of delayed launches or failure to meet commercial supply obligations. In addition, failure to comply with the above laws and requirements can result in enforcement action that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations or initiate proceedings to revoke those registrations. In certain circumstances, violations could result in criminal proceedings.



The costs, both financially and in regard to management attention, of combating legal proceedings could have an adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.



From time to time, the Company and/or its subsidiaries become involved in lawsuits arising from various commercial matters, including, but not limited to, competitive issues, contract issues, intellectual property matters, false advertising/unfair competition, taxation matters, workers' compensation, product liability, environmental remediation issues and U.S. state or federal regulatory issues. See

Note 14



The Company may also be subject to liability if its products violate or are alleged to violate applicable laws or regulations in the jurisdictions where such products are distributed or in the event that its products cause or are alleged to cause injury, illness, or death. The successful assertion of product liability claims against the Company could result in potentially significant monetary damages and diversion of management resources, and require the Company to make significant payments and incur substantial legal expenses. Even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, not merited, or not fully pursued, the Company may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim, and the Company's reputation may suffer.



With regard to Tysabri®, the Company’s subsidiary Elan is a defendant in product liability lawsuits arising out of serious adverse events, including deaths, which occurred in patients taking Tysabri®. The Company expects additional product liability lawsuits related to Tysabri® usage to be filed. While the Company or Biogen Idec intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits, the Company cannot predict how these cases will be resolved.  The Company and Biogen Idec will each be responsible for 50% of losses and expenses arising out of any Tysabri® product liability claims. Adverse results in one or more of these cases could result in substantial monetary judgments.












Court rulings limiting the application of U.S. Federal preemption may have an adverse effect on the Company's operations as a result of a potential increase in litigation exposure.



On November 13, 2013, the FDA issued a proposed rule captioned, “Supplemental Applications Proposing Labeling Changes for Approved Drugs and Biologics.”  Pursuant to the proposed rule, the FDA is proposing  to change existing regulations to expressly provide that generic drug application holders may distribute revised labeling that differs from the corresponding brand drug upon submission of a  "changes being effected" ("CBE-0") supplement to FDA.  FDA states that the proposed revisions to its regulations would create parity between branded drug application holders and generic drug application holders with respect to submission of CBE-0 supplements for safety-related labeling changes based on newly acquired information. This proposal is also intended to ensure that generic drug companies actively participate with FDA in ensuring the timeliness, accuracy, and completeness of drug safety labeling in accordance with current regulatory requirements.  The FDA received comments on the proposed rule until March 13, 2014.  The FDA has not yet issued a final rule on this issue.  If this proposed regulatory change is adopted, it may eliminate the preemption of certain failure-to-warn claims, with respect to generic drugs, which could have an adverse impact on the future operating results of the Company.



Third-party patents and other intellectual property rights may limit the Company's ability to bring new products to market and may subject the Company to potential legal liability. The failure to bring new products to market in a timely manner without incurring legal liability could cause the Company to lose market share and its operating results may suffer.



The Company's ability to bring new products to market is limited by certain patent, trademark and trade dress factors including, but not limited to, the existence of patents protecting brand products for all business segments and the regulatory exclusivity periods awarded on products. The cost and time to develop these prescription and switch products is significantly greater than the rest of the new products that the Company seeks to introduce. Moreover, the manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. These lawsuits relate to the validity and infringement of patents or proprietary rights of third parties. The Company may have to defend against charges that it violated patents or proprietary rights of third parties. The Company's defense against charges that it infringed third-party patents or proprietary rights could require the Company to incur substantial expense and to divert significant effort of its technical and management personnel. If the Company is found to have infringed on the rights of others, it could lose its right to develop or manufacture some products or could be required to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties.



Although the parties to patent and intellectual property disputes in the pharmaceutical industry have often settled their disputes through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, the Company cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be available to it on terms it believes to be acceptable. As a result, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent the Company from manufacturing and selling a number of its products.














The success of certain of the Company's products depends on the effectiveness of measures it takes to protect its intellectual property rights and patents.



The Company's success with certain of its products depends, in part, on its ability to protect and defend its intellectual property rights. If the Company fails to adequately protect its intellectual property, competitors may manufacture and market similar products. The Company has been issued patents covering certain of its products, and has filed, and expects to continue to file, patent applications seeking to protect newly developed technologies and products in various countries, including the U.S.  Any existing or future patents issued to or licensed by the

Company may not provide it with any significant competitive advantages for its products or may even be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by competitors. In addition, such patent rights may not prevent the Company's competitors from developing, using or commercializing non-infringing products that are similar or functionally equivalent to its products.



The Company also relies on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation that it seeks to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. If these agreements are breached, the Company may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. Furthermore, trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors or, if patents are not issued with respect to products arising from research, the Company may not be able to maintain the value of such intellectual property rights. The Company is also increasing its research and development efforts in countries where risks of improper disclosure of trade secrets and proprietary technology are higher than in the U.S. and Israel.



A significant disruption at any of the Company's main manufacturing facilities could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial position and results of operations.



The Company's U.S. manufacturing operations are concentrated in Michigan, Minnesota, South Carolina, New York, Vermont, Ohio, and Nebraska.  The primary non-U.S. operations are in Israel. Approximately80%of the Company's fiscal2014revenues are related to these world-wide manufacturing facilities. A significant disruption resulting from, but not limited to, fire, tornado, storm, flood, cyber attacks, material supply, insufficient quality, or pandemic at any of the Company's facilities could impair its ability to develop, produce and/or ship products on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position and operating results.



The Company is dependent on the services of certain key executive and scientific employees. The failure to attract and retain such employees may have a material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations.



The Company's future success will depend in large part upon its ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. Key functions for the Company include executive managers, operational managers, research and development scientists, information technology specialists, financial and legal specialists, regulatory professionals, quality compliance specialists and sales/marketing personnel. Should the Company be unable to attract or retain key qualified employees, future operating results may be adversely impacted.



Increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security or reputation damage.



The Company and its employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of  communication both internally and externally. To the extent that the Company seeks to use these tools as a means to communicate about its products and/or business, there are uncertainties as to either the rules that apply to such communications, or as to the interpretations that authorities will apply to the rules that exist. As a result, despite the Company's efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the Company's use of social media for such purposes may cause it to be found in violation of them. In addition, because of the availability of social media tools globally, the Company's employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of them in ways that may not be aligned with the Company's social media strategy, and that may give rise to liability, or could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of the Company's employees, clinical trial patients, customers and others. In either case, such uses of social media could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, negative posts or comments about the Company,










store brands or generic pharmaceuticals, or its products in social media could seriously damage its reputation and could adversely affect the price of its securities.



To protect itself against various potential liabilities, the Company maintains a variety of insurance programs. Significant increases in the cost or decreases in the availability of such insurance could adversely impact the Company's financial condition.



The Company maintains insurance, including property, general and product liability, and directors' and officers' liability to protect itself against potential loss exposures. The Company cannot predict whether deductible or retention amounts will increase or whether coverage will be reduced in the future. To the extent that losses occur, there could be an adverse effect on the Company's financial results depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage maintained by the Company. From time to time, the Company may reevaluate and change the types and levels of insurance coverage that it purchases.  We are self-insured when insurance is not available, retain certain self-insured retentions and have risk management strategies where insurance is not available at reasonable premium levels.



The Company, like retailers and other distributors and manufacturers of products, is exposed to product liability claims in the event that, among other things, the use of its products results in injury. There is no assurance that product liability insurance will continue to be available to the Company at an economically reasonable cost(or at all for certain specific products)or that the Company's insurance will be adequate to cover liability that the Company incurs in connection with product liability claims. SeeNote 14of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to Legal Proceedings.



Risks Related to Acquisitions



Although the Company only enters into business acquisitions and divestitures that it expects will result in benefits to the Company, the Company may not realize those benefits because of integration and other challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's stock price or operating results.



As part of the Company's strategy, it evaluates potential acquisitions in the ordinary course of business, some of which could be and have been material. Potential acquisition targets are evaluated on whether they have the capacity to deliver a return on invested capital ("ROIC") in excess of 200 basis points over the Company’s weighted average cost of capital ("WACC") within three years.  Acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including:



•uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities of, the respective parties;

•the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business;

•the consummation of financing transactions, acquisitions or dispositions and the related effects on the Company's business;

•the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies from an acquisition in the amounts and on the timeframe;

•problems that could arise from the integration of the respective businesses, including the application of internal control processes to the acquired business; and

•unanticipated changes in business, industry, market, or general economic conditions that differ from the assumptions underlying the Company's rationale for pursuing the transaction.



Any one or more of these factors could cause the Company not to realize the benefits anticipated from a transaction. Moreover, any acquisition opportunities the Company pursues could materially affect its liquidity and capital resources and may require the Company to incur indebtedness, seek equity capital or both. Future acquisitions could also result in the Company assuming more long-term liabilities relative to the value of the acquired assets than it has assumed in its previous acquisitions. Further, acquisition accounting rules require evaluation of certain assumptions, estimates or determination of financial statement classifications, which are completed during the measurement period as defined in current accounting standards. Accounting policies of the Company and acquisition accounting rules may materially vary from those of the acquired company. Any changes in assumptions, estimates or financial statement classifications may be material and have a material adverse effect on the assets, liabilities or future earnings of the new combined consolidated company.












In addition, integration activities may place substantial demands on the Company's management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems. Customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired business, technology, service or product could also have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation and business. The Company's failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could have a negative effect on its operations. Integration risks and synergies associated with the Company's acquisitions are likely to include, but are not limited to, sales force, sales channel or product portfolio rationalization; manufacturing, distribution and supply chain integration and purchasing savings; quality and regulatory process standardization; and information technology and administration shared service implementations. The dedication of management resources to such integration may detract attention from the Company's day-to-day business, and there can be no assurance that there will not be substantial costs associated with the transaction process or other material adverse effects as a result of these integration efforts. In addition, a lack of performance of acquisitions could cause financial difficulties.



The Company also evaluates the performance of all operating business units against an ROIC threshold. Underperforming assets typically have a specific period to improve performance before other strategic alternatives are considered. The Company's inability to successfully divest or sell assets in a timely manner could have a negative effect on its operations. In addition, the process of divestitures could cause strains on the ongoing operations of the Company.



The Company's actual financial positions and results of operations may differ materially from the unaudited pro forma financial data included in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



The pro forma financial information contained in

Note 2

of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is presented for illustrative purposes only and may not be an indication of what the Company's financial position or results of operations would have been had the acquisitions been completed on the dates indicated.  The pro forma financial information has been derived from the historical financial information of Perrigo Company, Elan and the acquired Fera and Aspen assets, and certain adjustments and assumptions have been made regarding the combined company after giving effect to the transactions.  The acquired assets and assumed liabilities have been measured at fair value based on various preliminary estimates using assumptions that the Company's management believes are reasonable utilizing information currently available.  The process for estimating the fair value of acquired assets and assumed liabilities requires the use of judgment in determining the appropriate assumptions and estimates.  These estimates may be revised as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed.  The pro forma financial data is based on a preliminary purchase price allocation, and the actual allocation of the purchase price will be performed only after all purchase price adjustments have been completed.  Accordingly, the actual financial condition and results of operations of the combined company may not be consistent with, or evident from, this pro forma financial information.



In addition, the assumptions used in preparing the pro forma financial information may not prove to be accurate, and other factors may affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations.  Acquisition accounting rules require evaluation of certain assumptions, estimates or determination of financial statement classifications that are completed during the measurement period as defined in current accounting standards.  The Company's accounting policies and acquisition accounting rules may materially vary from those of its acquired companies.  Any changes in assumptions, estimates, or financial statement classifications may be material and have a material adverse effect on the assets, liabilities or future earnings of the new combined consolidated company.  Any potential decline in the Company's financial condition or results of operations may cause significant variations in the Company's share price.



The Company's results of operations and cash flow needs could be materially impacted by acquisitions.

The Company's senior credit facilities, the agreements governing its senior notes and agreements governing its other indebtedness contain a number of restrictions and covenants that limit the Company's ability to make distributions or other payments to its investors and creditors unless certain financial tests or other criteria are satisfied. The Company also must comply with certain specified financial ratios and tests. These restrictions could affect the Company's ability to operate its business and may limit its ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities, such as acquisitions. If the Company does not comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in its senior credit facilities, agreements governing its senior notes and agreements governing its other indebtedness, the Company could be in default under those agreements, and the debt, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable. Any default under the Company's senior credit facilities or agreements governing its senior notes or other indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of debt under










other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. If the Company's indebtedness is accelerated, there can be no assurance that it would be able to repay or refinance its debt or obtain sufficient new financing.

The Company has various maturity dates associated with its credit facilities, senior notes and other debt facilities. There is no assurance that cash, future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of its indebtedness. Further, there is no assurance that future refinancing or renegotiation of the Company's senior credit facilities, senior notes or other debt facilities, or additional agreements will not have materially different or more stringent terms.

The Company has acquired significant assets that could become impaired or subject the Company to losses and may result in an adverse impact on the Company's results of operations.



In addition to the$5.8 billionTysabri® distribution and license agreement recorded as an intangible asset and described above, the Company also acquired investment securities and equity method investments, and recorded$2.3 billionof goodwill in connection with the Elan acquisition.  All of these assets are subject to impairment, which would adversely impact the Company's results of operations.



For intangible assets subject to amortization such as Tysabri®, an impairment analysis is performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any individual asset may not be recoverable.  An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its fair value.  Any significant change in market conditions, estimates or judgments used to determine expected future cash flows that indicate a reduction in carrying value may give rise to impairment in the period that the change becomes known.  SeeNote 3of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.



If the Company determines that a loss in the value of its equity method investments is other than temporary, the investment is written down to its estimated fair value.  Any such losses are recorded to other expense (income), net.  Evaluations of recoverability are based primarily on projected cash flows.  Due to uncertainties in the estimation process, actual results could differ from such estimates.  Additionally, the equity method of accounting requires the Company to record a proportionate share of the profits and losses of its equity method investments.  If the entities accounted for as equity method investments experience significant losses, the Company will have to record a proportionate share of those losses, which could significantly impact the Company's results of operations.



Risks Related to Doing Business Internationally



A substantial portion of the sources of raw materials and an increasing volume of sales of the Company are outside the U.S. Additional legislation or regulation concerning importing/exporting may be enacted, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's net sales and resulting income.



The Company imports and exports products and raw materials from/to several jurisdictions around the world. This process involves Company subsidiaries and third parties operating in a number of jurisdictions with different customs and import/export regulations. The regulations are subject to change from time to time and the Company cannot predict the nature, scope or impact of these changes upon the Company's operations. The Company is subject to periodic reviews and audits by governmental authorities responsible for administering these regulations. To the extent that the Company is unable to successfully defend itself against an audit or review, the Company may be required to pay assessments, penalties and increased duties, which may, individually or in the aggregate, negatively impact the Company's gross margins and operating results. Certain of the Company's facilities operate in a special purpose subzone established by the U.S. Department of Commerce Foreign Trade Zone Board, which allows the Company certain tax advantages on products and raw materials shipped through these facilities. If the U.S. Department of Commerce Foreign Trade Zone Board were to revoke the subzone designation or limit its use by the Company, the Company could be subject to increased duties, which may negatively impact the Company's gross margins and operating results.












Conducting business in international markets involves risks and uncertainties such as foreign exchange rate exposure and social, political and economic instability that could lead to increased prices for raw materials, reduced international sales and reduced profitability associated with such sales, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's net sales and resulting income.



The Company sources certain key raw materials and finished products from foreign suppliers in countries that include, but are not limited to, Australia, Canada, China, Denmark, India and Mexico. The Company's primary markets for the sale of its products outside the U.S. are Canada, Germany, Israel, Mexico, the U.K., China and Australia. The Company may have difficulty in international markets due, for example, to regulatory barriers, the necessity of adapting to new regulatory systems and problems related to markets with different cultural biases and political systems and strict adherence to all anti-corruption laws including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Violence and crime in Mexico could adversely affect the Company's manufacturing activities and ability to recruit and retain employees there. Sales to customers outside the U.S. and foreign raw material purchases expose the Company to a number of risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, possible difficulties in enforcing agreements, longer payment cycles, longer shipping lead-times, inefficient port operations, exchange rate fluctuations, difficulties obtaining export or import licenses, the imposition of withholding or other taxes, economic or political instability, embargoes, military hostilities or exchange controls. Should any of these risks occur, they may have a material adverse impact on the operating results of the Company.



Conditions in Israel affect the Company's operations and may limit its ability to produce and sell its products.



The Company has significant manufacturing and research and development facilities in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect the Company's operations, and the Company could be adversely affected by current or future hostilities involving Israel or a significant recession or downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel.



Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its neighboring countries. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel in recent years. These hostilities can adversely affect Israel's relationship with a number of countries in the region and elsewhere, as well as its relationship with international organizations.



While none of the Company's facilities in Israel have been directly affected by hostile operations, there can be no assurance that a further escalation of hostilities will not impact the Company's facilities. Currently there is conflict in Gaza, and Perrigo facilities are within the ranges of the rockets fired at Israel from Gaza.  Furthermore, the Company's employees in Israel include members of the Israeli military reserves, some of whom have been called up for active duty. If a significant number of the Company's employees in Israel are called up for active duty in the military, the Company's operations in Israel may be materially adversely affected.  Finally, travel, including FDA travel, has been disrupted or halted during the recent hostilities.



Escalations of hostilities have disruptive effects on Israel's economy, and any international economic sanctions against Israel could further harm Israel's economy. These economic developments could have an adverse effect on the Company's Israel Pharmaceutical and Diagnostic Products business.



Furthermore, certain parties with whom the Company does business may decline to travel to Israel, which would force the Company to make alternative arrangements where necessary. The United States Department of State has at times issued an advisory regarding travel to various sections of Israel. As a result of the State Department's advisories, the FDA has at various times curtailed or prohibited its inspectors from traveling to Israel to inspect the facilities of Israeli companies, and should this occur with respect to the Company's Israeli facilities, the FDA could withhold approval for new products intended to be produced at those facilities.



Although it has not yet occurred, the political and security situation in Israel may result in certain parties with whom the Company has contracts claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments pursuant to force majeure provisions of those contracts.



The Company could experience disruption of its manufacturing and research and development facilities due to terrorist acts or military actions. If terrorist acts or military actions were to result in substantial damage to the Company's facilities, business activities would be disrupted since, with respect to most products, the Company would need to obtain prior FDA approval for a change in manufacturing site. The Company's insurance may not










adequately compensate it for losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by the Company could have a material adverse effect on its business.



Some neighboring countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel or with Israeli companies. The Company is also precluded from marketing its products to certain of these countries due to U.S. and Israeli regulatory restrictions. Because an immaterial amount of the Company's revenue is currently derived from sales to these countries, the Company believes that the boycott has not had a material adverse effect on its current operations. However, continuation or extension of the boycott or implementation of additional restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could have an adverse impact on the expansion of the Company's business.



Risks Related to the Company's Liquidity and Capital Resources



The Company's business requires continuous capital investments and there can be no assurance that financial capital will always be available on favorable terms or at all. In some instances, the Company may determine to issue additional shares of capital stock in order to meet its capital needs, which would dilute existing shareholders' ownership.



The Company maintains a broad product line to function as a primary supplier for its customers. Capital investments are driven by growth, technological advancements, cost improvement and the need for manufacturing flexibility. Estimation of future capital expenditures could vary materially due to the uncertainty of these factors. If the Company fails to stay current with the latest manufacturing, information and packaging technology, it may be unable to competitively support the launch of new product introductions.



The Company anticipates that cash, cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and borrowings available under its credit facilities will substantially fund working capital and capital expenditures. The Company has historically evaluated acquisition opportunities and anticipates that acquisition opportunities will continue to be identified and evaluated in the future. The historical growth of sales and profits has been positively influenced by acquisitions. There is no assurance that future sales and profits will, or will not, be impacted by acquisition activities.



If the Company decides to seek additional capital through the issuance of additional ordinary shares, existing shareholders' ownership may be diluted.



Changes in the Company's credit ratings may limit its access to capital and materially increase borrowing costs.



The Company has received ratings from Moody's Investor Service and Standard and Poor's Rating Services.  Any changes or downgrades to the Company's credit ratings and outlook could negatively impact the Company's access to capital markets and the perception of the Company's credit risk by lenders and other third parties. The Company's credit ratings are based upon information furnished by the Company or obtained by a rating agency from its own sources and are subject to revision, suspension or withdrawal by one or more rating agencies at any time. Rating agencies may review the ratings assigned to the Company due to developments that are beyond the Company's control, including the introduction of new standards requiring the agencies to re-assess rating practices and methodologies.



Any downgrade to the ratings of the Company's debt securities may result in higher interest costs for certain of the Company's credit facilities and other debt financings, and could result in higher interest costs on future financings. Further, downgrades may impact the Company's ability to obtain adequate financing, including via trade payables with vendors. Customers' inclination to purchase goods from the Company may also be affected by the publicity associated with deterioration of the Company's credit ratings.



Customer channel consolidation, including retailers and buyers, can increase the Company's credit risk, which may adversely affect the Company's financial position or results of operations.



Retailer and buyer consolidation continues to increase the size of the Company's customers. If a large customer should encounter financial difficulties, the Company's exposure with respect to uncollectible receivables










and unusable inventory, as well as the potential loss of future sales, could result in a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.



The Company's results are impacted by global economic conditions; weaknesses or downturns in the global economy could adversely impact the Company's liquidity and financial condition.



The Company’s business is impacted by economic conditions in the U.S. and in other countries in which the Company produces and markets its products.  Slower economic growth, geopolitical issues, sovereign debt issues, and the state of global real estate markets may contribute to increased market volatility.  Although economic conditions have improved over the last few years, there continues to be uncertainty as to whether this improvement is sustainable. Continued market volatility could adversely affect the Company's stock price, liquidity and overall financial condition.



The Company's customers and suppliers may be adversely affected if the current economic conditions worsen. Although the Company actively reviews the credit worthiness of its customers and suppliers, the Company cannot fully predict to what extent its customers and suppliers may be negatively impacted and thus to what extent the Company's operations would be affected.



The Company invests cash and cash equivalents primarily in demand deposits and other short-term instruments with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase. The Company typically maintains a balance between objectives of safety of principal, liquidity and return by investing primarily in U.S., federal, state and local government obligations, direct obligations of local sovereign governments and in bank obligations of the Company's credit banks meeting a minimum third-party credit rating standard. The value of the Company's assets may be adversely affected if economic conditions worsen.



Although the Company's lenders have made commitments to make funds available to the Company in a timely fashion, if economic conditions worsen or new information becomes publicly available impacting these lenders' credit ratings or capital ratios, the Company's lenders may be unable or unwilling to lend money pursuant to the Company's existing credit facilities. In addition, if the Company determines that it is appropriate or necessary to raise capital in the future, the cost of raising funds through the debt or equity markets may be more expensive or those markets may be unavailable. If the Company is unable to use its existing credit facilities or raise funds through debt or equity markets, the Company's liquidity or ability to follow its key growth strategies could be materially and adversely affected.



Additionally, decreases in personal incomes may have caused consumers to look for and purchase lower priced products, such as generic and store brand products manufactured by the Company, as an alternative to higher priced brand-name products. To the extent that this trend has occurred, the Company's sales could be negatively affected if economic conditions improve and if consumers were enticed to go back to purchasing higher-priced brand-name products.



Tax-Related Risks



The U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") may not agree with the conclusion that the Company is treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.



Although the Company is incorporated in Ireland, the IRS may assert that it should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal tax purposes pursuant to section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Code").  For U.S. federal tax purposes, a corporation generally is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation.  Because the Company is an Irish incorporated entity, it would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-U.S. tax resident) under these rules.  Section 7874 of the Code provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.



For the Company to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under section 7874 of the Code, either (i) the former stockholders of Perrigo Company must own (within the meaning of section 7874 of the Code) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of the Company's stock by reason of holding shares in Perrigo Company (the "ownership test") or (ii) the Company must have substantial business activities in Ireland after the Elan acquisition (taking into account the activities of the Company’s expanded affiliated group).  As of the acquisition date, Perrigo Company stockholders held 71% (by both vote and value) of the shares in the Company.










As a result, the Company believes that under current law, it should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.  However, the Company cannot assure that the IRS will agree with the position that the ownership test is satisfied.  There is limited guidance regarding the section 7874 provisions, including the application of the ownership test.



Section 7874 of the Code likely will limit the Company's and its U.S. affiliates’ ability to utilize their U.S. tax attributes to offset certain U.S. taxable income, if any, generated by the Elan acquisition or certain specified transactions for a period of time following the Elan acquisition.



Following the acquisition of a U.S. corporation by a foreign corporation, section 7874 of the Code can limit the ability of the acquired U.S. corporation and its U.S. affiliates to utilize U.S. tax attributes such as net operating losses to offset U.S. taxable income resulting from certain transactions.  Based on the limited guidance available, the Company currently expects this limitation will apply, and as a result, the Company currently does not expect that it or its U.S. affiliates will be able to utilize their U.S. tax attributes to offset their U.S. taxable income, if any, resulting from certain specified taxable transactions.



Changes in tax laws or income tax rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and the ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner.



The Company believes that under current law, it should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.  However, changes to the inversion rules in section 7874 of the Code, or the IRS Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or other IRS guidance, could adversely affect the Company's status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application to the Company, Perrigo Company, and/or their respective stockholders, shareholders and affiliates.  In addition, recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, and such legislation, if passed, could have an adverse effect on the Company.



Moreover, the Office of the Revenue Commissioners, U.S. Congress, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and other Government agencies in jurisdictions where the Company and its affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations.  One example is in the area of "base erosion and profit shifting", where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates.  As a result, the tax laws in the U.S. and other countries in which the Company and its affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect the Company.



A number of factors may adversely impact the Company's future effective tax rates, such as income tax rate changes by governments; the jurisdictions in which the Company's profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the valuation of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; adjustments to the Company's interpretation of transfer pricing standards, changes in available tax credits, grants and other incentives; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (e.g., proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform); changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; expiration or the inability to renew tax rulings or tax holiday incentives; and the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings with respect to which the Company has not previously provided for U.S. taxes. A change in the Company's effective tax rate due to any of these factors may adversely impact the Company's future results from operations. Also, changes in tax laws could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to utilize cash in a tax efficient manner.



Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that we prepare our tax filings in accordance with all applicable tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audit, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals.  The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on operating results and/or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made.  In addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties, and/or interest assessments.












The government programs in Israel in which the Company participates and the tax benefits the Company receives require the Company to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase the Company's costs and tax expenses.





In fiscal 2011, Israel enacted new tax legislation that reduced the effective tax rate to 10% for 2011 and 2012, 7% for 2013 and 2014, and 6% thereafter for certain qualifying entities that elect to be taxed under the new legislation. This legislation was rescinded as announced in the Official Gazette on August 5, 2013. The new legislation enacted a 9% rate for certain qualifying entities that elect to be taxed under the new legislation. The Company has two entities that had previously elected the new tax legislation for years after fiscal 2011. Therefore, the above risk is only applicable for the Company for fiscal year 2011 as statutes remain open for this year.



Risks Related to Ownership of the Company's Ordinary Shares



The Company is incorporated in Ireland, and Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to, or otherwise adversely affect, our shareholders.



The Company’s shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Acts 1963-2013 (the Act). The Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. For example, under Irish law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. As a result, shareholders of Irish companies do not have the right to bring an action against the directors or officers of a company, except in limited circumstances. In addition, depending on the circumstances, shareholders may be subject to different or additional tax consequences under Irish law as a result of the acquisition, ownership and/or disposition of ordinary shares, including, but not limited to, Irish stamp duty, dividend withholding tax and capital acquisitions tax.



The Company is incorporated in Ireland, and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against the Company or certain of the Company's officers and directors.



The Company is incorporated in Ireland and a substantial portion of assets are located in jurisdictions outside the U.S. In addition, some of the officers and directors reside outside the U.S., and some or all of their respective assets are or may be located in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Therefore, it may be difficult for investors to enforce against the Company any judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws.



There is no treaty between Ireland and the U.S. providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. Before a foreign judgment would be deemed enforceable in Ireland, the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction and be for a final and conclusive sum.  An Irish court may also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if the judgment violated Irish public policy, if the judgment is in breach of natural justice or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier judgment. Further, an Irish court may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. Judgments of U.S. courts of










liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal securities laws may not be enforced by Irish courts if deemed to be contrary to public policy in Ireland.



In certain limited circumstances, dividends paid by the Company may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax.



In certain limited circumstances, dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of dividends, if any, paid on Perrigo ordinary shares.  A number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that shareholders resident in the U.S. and shareholders resident in certain other countries may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax (the "Relevant Territories").



Shareholders resident in the U.S. that hold their shares through the Depository Trust Company ("DTC") will not be subject to dividend withholding tax provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such shares in the records of the brokers holding such shares are recorded as being in the U.S. (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by Perrigo).  All U.S. resident shareholders in the Company that hold their shares outside of DTC and shareholders resident in other Relevant Territories will not be subject to dividend withholding tax provided the beneficial owners of such shares have furnished completed and valid dividend withholding tax forms and an IRS Form 6166, as appropriate, to the Company's transfer agent or their brokers (and such brokers have further transmitted the relevant information to the Company's transfer agent).  However, other shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, that could adversely affect the Company's share price.



Dividends received by Irish residents and certain other shareholders may be subject to Irish income tax.



Most Irish tax resident or ordinarily resident shareholders (other than Irish resident companies that have completed the appropriate dividend withholding tax ("DWT" forms)) will be subject to DWT in respect of dividends received from the Company.  Shareholders that are residents of Ireland, but are entitled to received dividends without DWT, must complete the appropriate DWT forms and provide them to their brokers before the record date for the dividend, or to the Company’s transfer agent at least seven business days before the record date for the dividend.



Shareholders who are not resident nor ordinarily resident in Ireland but who are not entitled to an exemption from Irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on those dividends which suffer dividend withholding tax.



Perrigo ordinary shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to Irish capital acquisitions tax.



Irish capital acquisitions tax ("CAT") could apply to a gift or inheritance of Perrigo ordinary shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties.  This is because Perrigo ordinary shares will be regarded as property situated in Ireland.  The person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for CAT.  Gifts and inheritances passing between spouses are exempt from CAT.  Children have a tax-free threshold of €225,000 in respect of taxable gifts or inheritances received from their parents.



Risks Related to the Company's Corporate Structure



A number of factors may limit the Company’s ability to pay dividends in the future.



The Company recently created distributable reserves by means of a reduction of share capital that was approved by the shareholders of the Company and the Irish High Court. In the event the Company chooses to seek to create further distributable reserves by means of a capital reduction, this will also require Irish High Court approval and shareholder approval. The Company is not aware of any reason why the Irish High Court would not approve the further creation of additional distributable reserves by means of a further capital reduction; however the issuance of the required order is a matter for the discretion of the Irish High Court. There also can be no guarantee that shareholder approval will be obtained.



The Company’s ability to pay dividends will be limited by the availability of distributable reserves. Although distributable reserves can be created by means of a reduction in capital, the ongoing availability of distributable reserves will depend on whether the Company has, on an individual entity basis, "profits available for










distribution" (within the meaning of the Irish Companies Acts); however, the future generation of additional distributable reserves cannot be guaranteed. The Company is a holding company that does not expect to conduct any business operations of its own. As a result, the Company will be dependent on cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from its subsidiaries in order to pay dividends to its shareholders. Any future determination to declare dividends will be made at the discretion of the Company’s board of directors, subject to compliance with applicable laws (including the Irish Companies Acts) and covenants under current or future credit facilities, which may restrict or limit the Company’s ability to pay dividends. The determination also will depend on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions and other factors that the Company’s board of directors may deem relevant.



Irish shareholder voting requirements may limit the Company's flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management.



Under Irish law, the authorized share capital of the Company can be increased by an ordinary resolution of its shareholders, and the directors may issue new ordinary or preferred shares up to a maximum amount equal to the authorized but unissued share capital, without shareholder approval, once authorized to do so by the articles of association of the Company or by an ordinary resolution of the Company's shareholders.  Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows shareholders to authorize the waiver of the statutory preemption rights by way of special resolution with respect to any particular allotment of shares.  Accordingly, the Company's articles of association contain, as permitted by Irish company law, a provision authorizing the board to issue new shares for cash without offering preemption rights.  The authorization of the directors to issue shares and the authorization of the waiver of the statutory preemption rights must both be renewed by the shareholders at least every five years, and the Company cannot provide any assurance that these authorizations will always be approved, which could limit the Company's ability to issue equity and thereby adversely affect the holders of the Company's securities.





