ITEM 1. BUSINESS



General



We are a Maryland corporation formed in October 1994 that has elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.  We are the largest owner and preeminent REIT, and leading life science real estate company, focused principally on science-driven cluster development through the ownership, operation, management, selective acquisition, development, and redevelopment of properties containing life science laboratory space.  We are the leading provider of high-quality environmentally sustainable real estate, technical infrastructure, and services to the broad and diverse life science industry.  Client tenants include institutional (universities and independent non-profit institutions), pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, product, and service entities and government agencies.  Our primary business objective is to maximize stockholder value by providing our stockholders with the greatest possible total return based on a multifaceted platform of internal and external growth. Our operating platform is based on the principle of “clustering,” with assets and operations located adjacent to life science entities driving growth and technological advances within each cluster.



As of December 31, 2011, we had 173 properties aggregating approximately 15.3 million rentable square feet, composed of approximately 13.6 million rentable square feet of operating properties, approximately 818,020 rentable square feet undergoing active development and approximately 919,857 rentable square feet undergoing active redevelopment.  Our operating properties were approximately 95% leased as of December 31, 2011.  Our primary sources of revenues are rental income and tenant recoveries from leases of our properties.  The comparability of financial data from period to period is affected by the timing of our property acquisition, development, and redevelopment activities.



2011 highlights



Improved credit profile and market access



Over the past several years, we successfully completed important steps in order to enhance our ability to access the debt capital markets on favorable terms, including (1) retiring certain debt, (2) amending our unsecured line of credit and unsecured bank term loans to increase the amount available and extend the maturity dates, (3) deleveraging our balance sheet, (4) generating significant cash flows from the completion and occupancy of key development and redevelopment projects from our non-income producing assets, and (4) reducing outstanding debt with the sale of land parcels in Mission Bay, San Francisco, California, for $278 million. We have also strived to maintain and improve the key strengths of our balance sheet and business, which include, among others, balance sheet liquidity, diverse and creditworthy tenant base, well located properties proximate to leading research institutions, favorable lease terms, stable occupancy and cash flows, and demonstrated life science and real estate expertise.



In July 2011, the Company received investment grade ratings from two major rating agencies.  Receipt of our investment grade ratings was a significant milestone for us that we believe will provide long-term value to our stockholders.  This important development provides us access to the investment grade unsecured debt market and allows us to continue to pursue our long-term capital, investment, and operating strategies.  We expect that issuance of investment grade unsecured notes will allow us to transition from bank debt financing to unsecured notes, from variable rate debt to fixed rate debt, and from medium-term debt to long-term debt.



Year Ended December 31,Credit Metrics (2)20112010Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA7.1x7.4xNet debt to gross assets (1)37%39%Fixed charge coverage ratio2.7x2.2xInterest coverage ratio3.4x2.7xUnencumbered net operating income as a percentage   of total net operating income69%60%Liquidity – unsecured line of credit availability   and unrestricted cash (1)$1.2   billion$0.5   billionNon-income producing assets as a percentage of   gross real estate assets (1)24%24%



(1)At   end of period.(2)These   metrics reflect certain non-GAAP financial measures. See “Item 7.   Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of   Operations — Non-GAAP Measures” for more information, including definitions   and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.



We expect to transition our balance sheet debt from short-term and medium-term bank debt to long-term unsecured fixed rate debt over the next several years. While this transition of bank debt is in process, we will utilize interest rate swap agreements to reduce our interest rate risk.  In December 2011, we executed interest rate swap agreements and reduced our unhedged variable rate debt exposure from 51% as of September 30, 2011, to 21% as of December 31, 2011.  We expect to keep our unhedged variable rate debt at approximately 20% or less of our total debt.











During 2011, we refinanced and extended debt maturities, significantly increasing our liquidity as of December 31, 2011. The following table summarizes our financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 (dollars in thousands):



December 31, 2011AmountWeighted AverageKey Debt FinancingsMaturity DateOutstandingInterest Rate (2)Date of Loan2017 Unsecured Bank Term Loan1/31/2017$600,0001.93%December 2011Refinancing of a secured loan4/20/201476,0002.29December 20112016 Unsecured Bank Term Loan6/30/2016750,0003.28June 2011Unsecured line of credit (1)1/31/2015370,0002.59January 2011$1,796,0002.65%



(1)Total   commitments available for borrowing aggregate $1.5 billion under our   unsecured line of credit. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately   $1.1 billion available for borrowing under our unsecured line of credit.(2)Represents   the contractual interest rate as of the end of the period plus the impact of   our interest rate swap agreements.



2017 Unsecured Bank Term Loan



In December 2011, we closed a $600 million unsecured bank term loan (the “2017 Unsecured Bank Term Loan”), which matures in January 2017, assuming we exercise our sole right to extend the maturity date by one year.  Borrowings under the 2017 Unsecured Bank Term Loan bear interest at London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) or a base rate specified in the loan agreement, plus in either case a specified margin.  The applicable margin for LIBOR borrowings under the 2017 Unsecured Bank Term Loan as of December 31, 2011, was 1.50%.  Our 2017 Unsecured Bank Term Loan may be repaid at any date prior to maturity without a prepayment penalty.  The net proceeds from this 2017 Unsecured Bank Term Loan were used to reduce outstanding borrowings on our unsecured line of credit.



Refinancing of secured loan



In December 2011, we extended the maturity date of a $76 million secured loan to April 2014.  As of December 31, 2011, the interest rate for this secured loan was 2.29%.



2016 Unsecured Bank Term Loan



In February 2011, we entered into a $250 million unsecured bank term loan.  In June 2011, we amended this $250 million unsecured bank term loan (as amended, the “2016 Unsecured Bank Term Loan”) to, among other things, increase the borrowings from $250 million to $750 million and to extend the maturity date from January 2015 to June 2016, assuming we exercise our sole right to extend the maturity date by one year.  Borrowings under the 2016 Unsecured Bank Term Loan bear interest at LIBOR or a base rate specified in the loan agreement, plus in either case a specified margin.  The applicable margin for the LIBOR borrowings under the 2016 Unsecured Bank Term Loan as of December 31, 2011, was 1.65%.  The financial covenants were not amended and are identical to the financial covenants required under our existing unsecured credit facility.  The 2016 Unsecured Bank Term Loan may be repaid at any date prior to maturity without a prepayment penalty.  The net proceeds from this 2016 Unsecured Bank Term Loan were used to reduce outstanding borrowings on the 2012 Unsecured Bank Term Loan (defined below) from $750 million to $250 million.  As a result of this early repayment, in the three months ended June 30, 2011, we recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt of approximately $1.2 million related to the write-off of unamortized loan fees.



Unsecured credit facility



In January 2011, we entered into a third amendment (the “Third Amendment”) to our second amended and restated credit agreement dated October 31, 2006, as further amended on December 1, 2006, and May 2, 2007 (the “Prior Credit Agreement,” and as amended by the Third Amendment, the “Amended Credit Agreement”), with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and certain lenders. The Third Amendment amended the Prior Credit Agreement to, among other things, increase the maximum permitted borrowings under the unsecured line of credit from $1.15 billion to $1.5 billion, plus a $750 million unsecured bank term loan (the “2012 Unsecured Bank Term Loan” and, together with the unsecured line of credit, the “Unsecured Credit Facility”) and provided an accordion option to increase commitments under the Unsecured Credit Facility by up to an additional $300 million.  Borrowings under the Unsecured Credit Facility bear interest at LIBOR or a base rate specified in the loan agreement, plus in either case a specified margin.  The applicable margin for LIBOR borrowings outstanding under our unsecured line of credit was 2.30% as of December 31, 2011.  The applicable margin for the LIBOR borrowings under the 2012 Unsecured Bank Term Loan was not amended in the Third Amendment and was 0.70% as of December 31, 2011.











Under the Third Amendment, the maturity date for the unsecured line of credit is January 2015, assuming we exercise our sole right under the amendment to extend this maturity date twice by an additional six months after each exercise.  The maturity date of the 2012 Unsecured Bank Term Loan is October 2012.  The Third Amendment modified certain financial covenants with respect to the Unsecured Credit Facility, including the fixed charge coverage ratio, secured debt ratio, leverage ratio, and minimum book value, and added covenants relating to an unsecured leverage ratio and unsecured debt yield.



Debt repayments



During 2011, we reduced the outstanding balance of our 3.70% unsecured convertible notes (“3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes”), 2012 Unsecured Bank Term Loan, and various secured loans.  The following table outlines certain debt repayments for the year ended December 31, 2011 (in thousands):



Year Ended December 31, 2011Loss on EarlyDebtExtinguishmentRepaymentsof DebtRepurchase of 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes$217,133$5,237Repayment of 2012 Unsecured Bank Term Loan500,0001,248Secured loan repayments55,677–$772,810$6,485



At the beginning of 2011, our strategy was to reduce a portion of the outstanding balance of the 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes. We were also focused on the refinancing of certain near term bank debt maturities, prior to engaging in the rating assessment process with certain rating agencies.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, we repurchased, in privately negotiated transactions, approximately $217.1 million of certain of our 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes for an aggregate cash price of approximately $221.4 million.  As a result of these repurchases, we recognized an aggregate loss on early extinguishment of debt of approximately $5.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011.  During January 2012, we repurchased approximately $83.8 million in principal amount of our 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes at par, pursuant to options exercised by holders thereof under the indenture governing the notes.  We do not expect to recognize any gain or loss as a result of this repurchase. As of February 21, 2012, $1.0 million of our 3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes remained outstanding.



Follow-on common stock offering



In May 2011, we completed a follow-on common stock offering to fund the purchase of 409 and 499 Illinois Street and to fund construction activities. We acquired 409 and 499 Illinois Street, a newly and partially completed 453,256 rentable square foot life science laboratory development project located on a highly desirable waterfront location in Mission Bay, San Francisco, for approximately $293 million.  The 409 Illinois Street property is a 241,659 rentable square foot tower that is 97% leased to a life science company through November 2023.  The 499 Illinois Street property is a vacant 211,597 rentable square foot tower in shell condition for which we plan to complete the development.



Dispositions



In August 2011, we sold a parcel of land located in San Diego, California, for approximately $17.3 million at a gain of $46,000.  The buyer is expected to construct a building with approximately 249,000 rentable square feet, representing a sale price of approximately $70 per rentable square foot.



During the three months ended September 30, 2011, 13-15 DeAngelo Drive, a 30,000 rentable square foot property, located in the suburbs of Boston, Massachusetts, met the criteria for classification as “held for sale.”  This property had been occupied by a life science tenant through June 30, 2011.  Upon move out, a user of the building presented an offer for the purchase of the building in the three months ended September 30, 2011.  As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $1.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2011, to adjust the carrying value to the estimated fair value less costs to sell.  In October 2011, we sold 13-15 DeAngelo Drive to that user for approximately $2.9 million, representing a sale price of approximately $97 per rentable square foot.











Acquisitions



In June 2011, we acquired 285 Bear Hill Road, a 26,270 rentable square foot office property located in the Greater Boston market, for approximately $3.9 million.  We commenced the redevelopment of this property into life science laboratory space during the three months ended December 31, 2011.  Based on our view of existing market conditions and certain assumptions, we expect to achieve a stabilized yield on a cash and United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) basis for this property of approximately 8.0% and 8.6%, respectively.  Stabilized yield on cost is calculated as the quotient of net operating income and our investment in the property at stabilization (“Stabilized Yield”).



In April 2011, we acquired 409 and 499 Illinois Street, a newly and partially completed 453,256 rentable square foot life science laboratory development project located on a highly desirable waterfront location in Mission Bay, San Francisco, for approximately $293 million.  The 409 Illinois Street property is a 241,659 rentable square foot tower that is 97% leased to a life science company through November 2023.  The 499 Illinois Street property is a vacant 211,597 rentable square foot tower in shell condition for which we plan to complete the development.  Based on our view of existing market conditions and certain assumptions at the time of the acquisition, we expect to achieve a Stabilized Yield on a cash and GAAP basis for this property in the range of 6.5% to 7.0% and 7.2% to 7.6%, respectively.



During the three months ended March 31, 2011, we acquired 4755 Nexus Center Drive, a newly and partially completed 45,255 rentable square foot development project located in University Town Center, San Diego, for approximately $7.4 million.  During the three months ended December 31, 2011, we leased 100% of this building to a biopharmaceutical company.  We expect to complete construction and deliver this property to the tenant during the three months ended September 30, 2012. We expect to achieve a Stabilized Yield on a cash and GAAP basis for this property of 7.0% and 7.7%, respectively.



Leasing



For the year ended December 31, 2011, we executed a total of 190 leases for approximately 3,407,000 rentable square feet at 87 different properties (excluding month-to-month leases), that represented the highest amount of rentable square feet leased in one year in the history of our Company.  Of this total, approximately 1,822,000 rentable square feet related to new or renewal leases of previously leased space (renewed/re-leased space) and approximately 1,585,000 rentable square feet related to developed, redeveloped, or previously vacant space.  Of the 1,585,000 rentable square feet, approximately 993,000 rentable square feet were related to our development or redevelopment programs, and the remaining approximately 592,000 rentable square feet were related to previously vacant space.  Rental rates for these new or renewal leases (renewed/re-leased space) were on average approximately 4.2% higher on a basis calculated in accordance with GAAP than rental rates for the respective expiring leases.  Additionally, we granted tenant concessions, including free rent, averaging approximately 2.0 months with respect to the 3,407,000 rentable square feet leased during the year ended December 31, 2011. Approximately 64% of the number of leases executed during the year ended December 31, 2011, had no tenant concessions/free rent.



As of December 31, 2011, approximately 95% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) were triple net leases, requiring tenants to pay substantially all real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, common area, and other operating expenses (including increases thereto) in addition to base rent.  Additionally, approximately 92% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) provided for the recapture of certain capital expenditures, and approximately 94% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis) contained effective annual rent escalations that were either fixed or indexed based on the consumer price index or another index.











Business objectives and strategies



Our primary business objective is to maximize stockholder value by providing our stockholders with the greatest possible total return based on a multifaceted platform of internal and external growth.  The key elements to our strategy are our consistent focus on high-quality assets and operations in the top life science cluster locations with our properties located adjacent to life science entities driving growth and technological advances within each cluster.  These adjacency locations are characterized by high barriers to entry and exit as well as limited supply of available space, and they represent highly desirable locations for tenancy by life science entities.  Our strategy also includes drawing upon our deep and broad life science and real estate relationships in order to attract new and leading life science client tenants and value-added real estate opportunities.



We focus our property operations and investment activities principally in the following life science markets:



·California – San Diego;

·California – San Francisco;

·Greater Boston;

·New York City/New Jersey/Suburban Philadelphia;

·North Carolina – Research Triangle Park;

·Suburban Washington, D.C.;

·Washington – Seattle; and

·International.



Our client tenant base is broad and diverse within the life science industry and reflects our focus on regional, national, and international tenants with substantial financial and operational resources.  For a more detailed description of our properties and tenants, see “Item 2. Properties.”  We have an experienced board of directors and are led by a senior management team with extensive experience in both the real estate and life science industries.



Growth and core operating strategies



We continue to demonstrate the strength and durability of our core operations providing life science laboratory space to the broad and diverse life science industry.  Our internal growth has been consistent, as demonstrated by our same property net operating income (“NOI”) performance, high and relatively stable occupancy, and continuing improvement of cash flows from leasing activity.  In addition, we continue to focus on our external growth through the conversion of non-income-producing assets into income-producing assets, which results in cash flow contribution from ground-up development and from redevelopment of non-laboratory space into laboratory space.  We intend to selectively acquire properties that we believe provide long-term value to our stockholders. Our strategy for acquisitions will focus on the quality of the submarket locations, improvements, tenancy, and overall return. We believe the life science industry will remain keenly focused on adjacency locations to key innovation drivers in each major life science submarket. Owning and operating the best assets in the best adjacency locations provides the best upside potential and provides the most downside risk mitigation.  This being the case, we will also focus on adjacency locations that will deliver high cash flows, stability, and returns as we work to deliver the highest value to our stockholders.



We also intend to continue to focus on the completion and delivery of our existing active development projects aggregating approximately 818,020 rentable square feet and our existing active redevelopment projects aggregating approximately 919,857 rentable square feet. Additionally, we intend to continue with preconstruction activities for certain land parcels for future ground-up development in order to preserve and create value for these projects.  These important preconstruction activities add significant value to our land for future ground-up development and are required for the ultimate vertical construction of the buildings.  We also continue to be very prudent with any future decisions to add new projects to our active ground-up developments.  Future ground-up development projects will likely require significant pre-leasing from high-quality and/or creditworthy entities.



We intend to transition our balance sheet debt from short-term and medium-term unsecured variable rate bank debt to long-term unsecured fixed rate debt.  We are focused on the recycling of non-core suburban assets into higher-value urban or central business district adjacency location assets and teaming with high-quality capital partners, as appropriate.  We expect sources of funds for construction activities and repayment of outstanding debt to be provided over several years by opportunistic sales of real estate, joint ventures, cash flows from operations, new secured or unsecured debt, and the issuance of additional equity securities, as appropriate.











We seek to maximize balance sheet liquidity and flexibility, cash flows, and cash available for distribution to our stockholders through the ownership, operation, management, and selective acquisition, development, and redevelopment of life science properties, as well as management of our balance sheet.  In particular, we seek to maximize balance sheet liquidity and flexibility, cash flows, and cash available for distribution by:



·maintaining significant liquidity through borrowing capacity under our unsecured line of credit and cash and cash equivalents;

·minimizing the amount of near term debt maturities in a single year;

·maintaining low to modest leverage;

·minimizing variable interest rate risk;

·maintaining strong and stable operating cash flows;

·re-tenanting and re-leasing space at higher rental rates to the extent possible, while minimizing tenant improvement costs;

·maintaining solid occupancy while also maintaining high lease rental rates;

·realizing contractual rental rate escalations, which are currently provided for in approximately 94% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis);

·implementing effective cost control measures, including negotiating pass-through provisions in tenant leases for operating expenses and certain capital expenditures;

·improving investment returns through leasing of vacant space and replacement of existing tenants with new tenants at higher rental rates;

·achieving higher rental rates from existing tenants as existing leases expire;

·selectively selling properties, including land parcels, to reduce outstanding debt;

·selectively acquiring high-quality, life science properties in our target life science cluster markets at prices that enable us to realize attractive returns;

·selectively redeveloping existing office, warehouse, shell space, or newly acquired properties into generic life science laboratory space that can be leased at higher rental rates in our target life science cluster markets; and

·selectively developing properties in our target life science cluster markets.



Acquisitions



We seek to identify and acquire high-quality, life science properties in our target life science cluster markets.  Critical evaluation of prospective property acquisitions is an essential component of our acquisition strategy.  When evaluating acquisition opportunities, we assess a full range of matters relating to the prospective property or properties, including:



·adjacency to centers of innovation and technological advances;

·location of the property and our strategy in the relevant market;

·quality of existing and prospective tenants;

·condition and capacity of the building infrastructure;

·quality and generic characteristics of the laboratory facilities;

·physical condition of the structure and common area improvements;

·opportunities available for leasing vacant space and for re-tenanting occupied space;

·availability of land for future ground-up development of new life science laboratory space; and

·opportunities to redevelop existing space into higher rent, generic life science laboratory space.



Development



A key component of our long-term business model is ground-up development projects.  Our development strategy is primarily to pursue selective projects with significant pre-leasing where we expect to achieve appropriate investment returns and generally match a source of funds for this use.  Our ground-up development projects focus on investment in generic and reusable infrastructure, rather than tenant-specific improvements. As of December 31, 2011, we had six projects undergoing ground-up development approximating 818,020 rentable square feet of life science laboratory space.  We also have an embedded pipeline for future ground-up development approximating 17.9 million developable square feet.



Redevelopment



Another key component of our long-term business model is the redevelopment of existing office, warehouse, or shell space into generic life science laboratory space that can be leased at higher rates.  Our redevelopment strategy includes significant pre-leasing of certain projects prior to the commencement of the redevelopment where we expect to achieve appropriate investment returns and generally match a source of funds for this use.  As of December 31, 2011, we had 11 projects aggregating 919,857 rentable square feet undergoing active redevelopment.  In addition to properties undergoing redevelopment, as of December 31, 2011, our asset base contained embedded opportunities for a future permanent change of use to life science laboratory space through redevelopment aggregating approximately 1.0 million rentable square feet.











Tenants



As of December 31, 2011, we had 474 leases with a total of 388 tenants, and 69, or 40%, of our 173 properties were single-tenant properties.  Our three largest tenants accounted for approximately 13.6% of our aggregate annualized base rent, or approximately 6.4%, 3.6%, and 3.6%, respectively. None of our tenants represented more than 10% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011.



Competition



In general, other life science properties are located in close proximity to our properties. The amount of rentable space available in any market could have a material effect on our ability to rent space and on the rents that we can earn.  In addition, we compete for investment opportunities with insurance companies, pension and investment funds, private equity entities, partnerships, developers, investment companies, other REITs, and owner/occupants. Many of these entities have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more than we can or accept more risk than we are willing to accept.  These entities may be less sensitive to risks with respect to the creditworthiness of a tenant or the geographic concentration of their investments.  Competition may also reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us or may increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell.  Competition in acquiring existing properties and land, both from institutional capital sources and from other REITs, has been very strong over the past several years. We believe we have differentiated ourselves from our competitors, as we are the innovator as well as the largest owner, manager, and developer of life science properties, in key life science markets and have the most important relationships in the life science industry.



Financial information about our operating segment



See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for information about our operating segment.



Regulation



General



Properties in our markets are subject to various laws, ordinances, and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas.  We believe we have the necessary permits and approvals to operate each of our properties.



Americans with Disabilities Act



Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the “ADA”), to the extent that such properties are “public accommodations” as defined by the ADA. The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. We believe that our properties are in substantial compliance with the ADA and that we will not be required to make substantial capital expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA. However, noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our properties and make alterations as appropriate in this respect.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors—We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws.”



Environmental matters



Under various environmental protection laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances at that property, and may be required to investigate and clean up contamination located on or emanating from that property. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint and several. Previous owners used some of our properties for industrial and other purposes, so those properties may contain some level of environmental contamination. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties may expose us to third-party liability or may materially adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, or develop the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral.











Some of our properties may have asbestos-containing building materials. Environmental laws require that asbestos-containing building materials be properly managed and maintained, and may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements. These laws may also allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials.



In addition, some of our tenants routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties. Environmental laws and regulations subject our tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from these activities or from previous uses of those properties. Environmental liabilities could also affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us. We require our tenants to comply with these environmental laws and regulations.   See “Item 1A. Risk Factors—We could be held liable for damages resulting from our tenants’ use of hazardous materials.”



Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental site assessments on the properties in our portfolio. Site assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties, and do not generally include soil samplings, subsurface investigations, or an asbestos survey.  To date, these assessments have not revealed any material environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, or results of operations.  Nevertheless, it is possible that the assessments on our properties have not revealed all environmental conditions, liabilities, or compliance concerns. Material environmental conditions, liabilities, or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future; and future laws, ordinances, or regulations may impose material additional environmental liability.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors —We could incur significant costs complying with environmental laws.”



Insurance



We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, and rental loss insurance with respect to our properties. We select policy specifications and insured limits that we believe to be appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage, and industry practice.  In the opinion of management, the properties in our portfolio are currently adequately insured.  In addition, we have obtained earthquake insurance for certain properties located in the vicinity of active earthquake faults.  We also carry environmental remediation insurance and title insurance on our properties.  We obtain our title insurance policies generally when we acquire the property, with each policy covering an amount equal to the initial purchase price of each property. Accordingly, any of our title insurance policies may be in an amount less than the current value of the related property. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Our insurance may not adequately cover all potential losses.”



Available information



Copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, including any amendments to the foregoing reports, are available, free of charge, through our corporate website at www.are.com as soon as is reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The current charters of our Board of Director’s Audit, Compensation, and Nominating & Governance Committees, along with the Company’s corporate governance guidelines and Business Integrity Policy and Procedures for Reporting Non-compliance (the “Business Integrity Policy”) are available on our corporate website. Additionally, any amendments to, and waivers of, our Business Integrity Policy that apply to our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will be available free of charge on our corporate website in accordance with applicable SEC and New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) requirements.  Written requests should be sent to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc., 385 East Colorado Boulevard, Suite 299, Pasadena, California 91101, Attention: Investor Relations.  Further, a copy of this annual report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The public may also download these materials from the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.



Employees



As of December 31, 2011, we had 212 full-time employees.  We believe that we have good relations with our employees.  We have adopted a Business Integrity Policy that applies to all of our employees.  Its receipt and review by each employee is documented and verified annually.











