ITEM 1. BUSINESS



General



We are a Maryland corporation formed in October 1994 that has elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.  We are the largest owner and preeminent REIT focused principally on cluster development through the ownership, operation, management, selective acquisition, development, and redevelopment of properties containing life science laboratory space.  We are the leading provider of high-quality environmentally sustainable real estate, technical infrastructure, and services to the broad and diverse life science industry.  Client tenants include institutional (universities and independent not-for-profit institutions), pharmaceutical, biotechnology, medical device, product, service, and government agencies.  Our primary business objective is to maximize stockholder value by providing our stockholders with the greatest possible total return b
ased on a multi-faceted platform of internal and external growth. Our operating platform is based on the principle of “clustering,” with assets and operations located adjacent to life science entities driving growth and technological advances within each cluster.  As of December 31, 2010, we had 167 properties (163 properties located in 10 states in the United States and four properties located in Canada) containing approximately 13.7 million rentable square feet (including spaces undergoing active redevelopment and properties undergoing ground-up development of approximately 475,818 rentable square feet).



2010 highlights



Acquisitions and dispositions



In March 2010, we sold one property located in the Seattle, Washington market aggregating approximately 71,000 rentable square feet for approximately $11.8 million.  This property was located outside of our primary submarket location in Seattle.



In August 2010, we entered into definitive agreements to acquire three life science properties and other selected assets and interests of privately-held Veralliance Properties, Inc. (“Veralliance”), including continuing services from Veralliance Founder and President, Daniel Ryan and other key management and operational personnel. Veralliance was a San Diego-based corporate real estate solutions company focused on the acquisition, development, and management of office and life science assets in Southern California. The three life science properties, located in San Diego, California, contain an aggregate of 161,000 rentable square feet and were acquired for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $50.0 million consisting of approximately $35.2 million in cash and our assumption of two secured loans aggregating approximately $14.8 million. We completed the 
acquisition of one of these properties in the third quarter of 2010 and completed the acquisitions of the other two properties in the fourth quarter of 2010.



In September 2010, we purchased a life science property with approximately 48,500 rentable square feet in the Suburban Washington, D.C. market. The total purchase price was approximately $12.5 million and consisted of approximately $6.2 million in cash and our assumption of a secured loan of approximately $6.3 million. This property is fully leased to a credit life science entity.



In October 2010, we acquired a life science campus in the San Diego market aggregating approximately 347,000 rentable square feet for approximately $128 million.  The purchase of this life science campus included land supporting the future development of additional life science buildings aggregating approximately 420,000 rentable square feet.  At the time of this acquisition, the campus was subject to a 15-month lease with Biogen Idec Inc.  In December 2010, we executed a new lease for the entire 347,000 rentable square foot campus pursuant to a 20-year lease with Illumina, Inc. (“Illumina”) and, pursuant to the lease, also commenced the ground-up development of a building aggregating approximately 123,000 rentable square feet on the campus.  Illumina has the right to further expand the premises and lease one to three additional buildings that may be
 built on this campus.



In November 2010, we completed sales of land parcels in Mission Bay, San Francisco for an aggregate sales price of approximately $278 million at a gain of approximately $59 million. The sales of the land parcels resulted in a reduction of our preconstruction developable square footage by approximately 2.0 million square feet in the Mission Bay, San Francisco submarket.  The cash proceeds from these sales were used to repay outstanding borrowings under our unsecured line of credit.











In December 2010, we acquired one property in the San Diego market aggregating approximately 373,000 rentable square feet for approximately $114 million.  The acquisition of this property included land supporting the future development of additional life science buildings aggregating approximately 244,000 rentable square feet.  As of December 31, 2010, approximately 201,000 rentable square feet of the property’s 373,000 total rentable square footage was undergoing active redevelopment.  The remaining operating square footage aggregating 172,000 rentable square feet was 100% occupied.



Additionally in December 2010, we acquired one property in the Suburban Washington, D.C. market aggregating approximately 50,000 rentable square feet for approximately $14 million.



Redevelopment and development projects



During the year ended December 31, 2010, we completed the redevelopment of multiple spaces at nine properties aggregating approximately 303,000 rentable square feet.  Also during the year ended December 31, 2010, we completed the ground-up development of three properties aggregating 553,000 rentable square feet, including approximately 308,000 rentable square feet at the Alexandria Center™ for Life Science – New York City, a state-of-the-art urban science park.  Additionally, we commenced the ground-up development of two fully leased properties aggregating 220,000 rentable square feet pursuant to long term leases during the year ended December 31, 2010.



Unsecured credit facility



In January 2011, we entered into a third amendment (the “Third Amendment”) to our second amended and restated credit agreement dated October 31, 2006, as further amended on December 1, 2006 and May 2, 2007 (the “Existing Credit Agreement,” and as amended by the Third Amendment, the “Amended Credit Agreement”), with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and certain lenders.



The Third Amendment amended the Existing Credit Agreement to, among other things, increase the maximum permitted borrowings under the credit facilities from $1.9 billion to $2.25 billion, consisting of a $1.5 billion unsecured line of credit (increased from $1.15 billion) and a $750 million unsecured term loan (together the “Unsecured Credit Facility”) and provide an accordion option to increase commitments under the Unsecured Credit Facility by up to an additional $300 million.  Borrowings under the Unsecured Credit Facility bear interest at LIBOR or the specified base rate, plus in either case a margin specified in the Amended Credit Agreement (the “Applicable Margin”).  The Applicable Margin for LIBOR borrowings under the revolving credit facility was initially set at 2.4%.  The Applicable Margin for the LIBOR borrowings under the unsecured term loan was no
t amended in the Third Amendment and was 1.0% as of December 31, 2010.



Under the Third Amendment, the maturity date for the unsecured revolving credit facility will be January 2015, assuming we exercise our sole right under the amendment to extend this maturity date twice by an additional six months after each exercise.  The maturity date for the $750 million unsecured term loan remained unchanged at October 2012, assuming we exercise our sole right to extend the maturity date by one year.  The Third Amendment modified certain financial covenants with respect to the Unsecured Credit Facility, including the fixed charge coverage ratio, secured debt ratio, leverage ratio, and minimum book value, and added covenants relating to an unsecured leverage ratio and unsecured debt yield.



Other financing activities



In June 2010, we completed an exchange (the “Exchange Offer”) of approximately $232.7 million of our 8.00%unsecured senior convertible notes (“8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes”) for consideration of 24.1546 shares of our common stock, a cash premium of $180 per $1,000 principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  In July 2010, we repurchased, in a privately negotiated transaction, approximately $7.1 million of our 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes for an aggregate cash price of approximately $12.8 million.  Thus, in the Exchange Offer and this privately negotiated transaction, we retired $239.8 million of our 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes (representing substantially all $240 million outstanding principal amount of our 8.00% Unsecured Convertible Notes).  In connection with the 
retirement of our 8% Unsecured Convertible Notes, we recognized losses on early extinguishment of debt of approximately $42.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010



In September 2010, we sold 5,175,000 shares of our common stock in a follow-on offering (including 675,000 shares issued upon full exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option).  The shares were issued at a price of $69.25 per share, resulting in aggregate proceeds of approximately $342 million (after deducting underwriters’ discounts and other offering costs).











In December 2010, we repurchased, in privately negotiated transactions, approximately $82.8 million of our 3.70% unsecured convertible notes (“3.70% Unsecured Convertible Notes”) at an aggregate cash price of approximately $84.6 million.  As a result of the repurchases, we recognized a loss on early extinguishment of debt of approximately $2.4 million during the fourth quarter of 2010.



During the year ended December 31, 2010, we repaid eight secured loans aggregating approximately $118.5 million and, in connection with three 2010 acquisitions, assumed three secured loans aggregating approximately $21.1 million.



Leasing



For the year ended December 31, 2010, we executed a total of 142 leases for approximately 2,744,000 rentable square feet at 71 different properties (excluding month-to-month leases).  Of this total, approximately 1,778,000 rentable square feet related to new or renewal leases of previously leased space and approximately 966,000 rentable square feet related to developed, redeveloped, or previously vacant space.  Of the 966,000 rentable square feet, approximately 712,000 rentable square feet were related to our development or redevelopment programs, with the remaining 254,000 rentable square feet related to previously vacant space.  Rental rates (on a basis calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”)) for these new or renewal leases were on average approximately 4.9% higher than rental rates for the respective 
expiring leases.



Business objectives and strategies



We focus our property operations and investment activities principally in the following life science markets:

·California – San Diego;

·California – San Francisco Bay;

·Greater Boston;

·New York City/New Jersey/Suburban Philadelphia;

·Southeast;

·Suburban Washington, D.C.;

·Washington – Seattle; and

·International.

Our client tenant base is broad and diverse within the life science industry and reflects our focus on regional, national, and international tenants with substantial financial and operational resources.  For a more detailed description of our properties and tenants, see “Item 2. Properties.”  We have an experienced board of directors and are led by a senior management team with extensive experience in both the real estate and life science industries.



Growth and operating strategies













We seek to maximize funds from operations (“FFO”), balance sheet liquidity and flexibility, and cash available for distribution to our stockholders through the ownership, operation, management, and selective redevelopment, development, and acquisition of life science properties, as well as management of our balance sheet.  See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Funds From Operations” for a discussion of how we compute and view FFO, as well as a discussion of other measures of cash flow. In particular, we seek to maximize FFO, balance sheet liquidity and flexibility, and cash available for distribution by:



·maintaining a strong, liquid, and flexible balance sheet;

·maintaining strong and stable operating cash flows;

·re-tenanting and re-leasing space at higher rental rates to the extent possible, while minimizing tenant improvement costs;

·maintaining solid occupancy while also maintaining high lease rental rates;

·realizing contractual rental rate escalations, which are currently provided for in approximately 91% of our leases (on a rentable square footage basis);

·implementing effective cost control measures, including negotiating pass-through provisions in tenant leases for operating expenses and certain capital expenditures;

·improving investment returns through leasing of vacant space and replacement of existing tenants with new tenants at higher rental rates;

·achieving higher rental rates from existing tenants as existing leases expire;

·selectively selling properties, including land parcels, to reduce outstanding debt;

·selectively acquiring high-quality life science properties in our target life science cluster markets at prices that enable us to realize attractive returns;

·selectively redeveloping existing office, warehouse, shell space, or newly acquired properties into generic laboratory space that can be leased at higher rental rates in our target life science cluster markets; and

·selectively developing properties in our target life science cluster markets.



Acquisitions



We seek to identify and acquire high-quality life science properties in our target life science cluster markets.  Critical evaluation of prospective property acquisitions is an essential component of our acquisition strategy.  When evaluating acquisition opportunities, we assess a full range of matters relating to the prospective property or properties, including:



·adjacency to centers of innovation and technological advances;

·location of the property and our strategy in the relevant market;

·quality of existing and prospective tenants;

·condition and capacity of the building infrastructure;

·quality and generic characteristics of the laboratory facilities;

·physical condition of the structure and common area improvements;

·opportunities available for leasing vacant space and for re-tenanting occupied space;

·availability of land for future ground-up development of new life science laboratory space; and

·opportunities to redevelop existing space into higher rent generic life science laboratory space.



Redevelopment



A key component of our long term business model is the redevelopment of existing office, warehouse, or shell space as generic life science laboratory space that can be leased at higher rates.  As of December 31, 2010, we had 12 projects aggregating 755,463 rentable square feet undergoing redevelopment.  In addition to properties undergoing redevelopment, as of December 31, 2010, our asset base contained embedded opportunities for a future permanent change of use to life science laboratory space through redevelopment aggregating approximately 1.5 million rentable square feet.











Development



Another key component of our long term business model is ground-up development projects.  Our development strategy is primarily to pursue selective projects where we expect to achieve appropriate investment returns.  Our ground-up development projects focus on investment in generic and reusable infrastructure, rather than tenant specific improvements. As of December 31, 2010, we had five parcels of land undergoing ground-up development approximating 475,818 rentable square feet of life science laboratory space.  We also have an embedded pipeline for future ground-up development approximating 12.7 million developable square feet.



Tenants



As of December 31, 2010, we had 453 leases with a total of 373 tenants, and 73 of our 167 properties were single-tenant properties.  Our three largest tenants accounted for approximately 14.1% of our aggregate annualized base rent, or approximately 6.6%, 3.8%, and 3.7%, respectively. None of our tenants represented more than 10% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010.



Competition



In general, other life science properties are located in close proximity to our properties.  The amount of rentable space available in any market could have a material effect on our ability to rent space and on the rents that we can earn.  In addition, we compete for investment opportunities with insurance companies, pension and investment funds, private equity entities, partnerships, developers, investment companies, other REITs, and owner/occupants.  Many of these entities have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more than us or accept more risk than we are willing to accept.  These entities may be less sensitive to risks with respect to the creditworthiness of a tenant or the geographic concentration of their investments.  Competition may also reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us or may increas
e the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell.  Competition in acquiring existing properties and land, both from institutional capital sources and from other REITs, has been very strong over the past several years. We believe we have differentiated ourselves from our competitors, as we are the innovator as well as the largest owner, manager, and developer of life science properties, in key life science markets and have the most important relationships in the life science industry.



Financial information about our operating segment



See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for information about our operating segment.



Regulation



General



Properties in our markets are subject to various laws, ordinances, and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas.  We believe we have the necessary permits and approvals to operate each of our properties.



Americans With Disabilities Act



Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 (the “ADA”), to the extent that such properties are “public accommodations” as defined by the ADA.  The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable.  We believe that our properties are in substantial compliance with the ADA and that we will not be required to make substantial capital expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA.  However, noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants.  The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our properties and make alterations as appropriate in this respect.  See “I
tem 1A. Risk Factors—We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans With Disabilities Act and similar laws.”



Environmental matters



Under various environmental protection laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances at that property, and may be required to investigate and clean up contamination located on or emanating from that property.  Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint and several.  Previous owners used some of our properties for industrial and other purposes, so those properties may contain some level of environmental contamination.  The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties may expose us to third-party liability or materially adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, or develop the real estat
e or to borrow using the real estate as collateral.











Some of our properties may contain asbestos-containing building materials. Environmental laws require that asbestos-containing building materials be properly managed and maintained, and may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements. These laws may also allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials.



In addition, some of our tenants, routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties.  Environmental laws and regulations subject our tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from these activities or from previous uses of those properties.  Environmental liabilities could also affect a tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us.  We require our tenants to comply with these environmental laws and regulations.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors—We could be held liable for damages resulting from our tenants’ use of hazardous materials.”



Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental site assessments on the properties in our portfolio.  Site assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties, and do not generally include soil samplings, subsurface investigations, or an asbestos survey.  These assessments have not to date revealed any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, or results of operations.  Nevertheless, it is possible that the assessments on our properties have not revealed all environmental conditions, liabilities, or compliance concerns. Material environmental conditions, liabilities, or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future; and future laws, ordin
ances, or regulations may impose material additional environmental liability.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors — We could incur significant costs complying with environmental laws.”



Insurance



We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, and rental loss insurance with respect to our properties. We select policy specifications and insured limits which we believe to be appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage, and industry practice.  In the opinion of management, the properties in our portfolio are currently adequately insured.  In addition, we have obtained earthquake insurance for certain properties located in the vicinity of active earthquake faults.  We also carry environmental remediation insurance and title insurance on our properties.  We obtain our title insurance policies when we acquire the property, with each policy covering an amount equal to the initial purchase price of each property. Accordingly, any of our title insurance policies may be in an amount less than the current value of the related property. 
 See “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Our insurance may not adequately cover all potential losses.”



Available information



Copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, including any amendments to the foregoing reports, are available, free of charge, through our corporate website at http://www.labspace.com as soon as is reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  The current charters of our Board of Director’s Audit, Compensation, and Nominating & Governance Committees, along with the Company’s corporate governance guidelines and Business Integrity Policy and Procedures for Reporting Non-compliance (the “Business Integrity Policy”) are available on our corporate website. Additionally, any amendments to, and waivers of, our Business Integrity Policy that apply to our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will be available free of charge o
n our corporate website in accordance with applicable SEC and New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) requirements.  Written requests should be sent to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc., 385 East Colorado Boulevard, Suite 299, Pasadena, California 91101, Attention: Investor Relations.  Further, a copy of this annual report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The public may also download these materials from the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, we had 151 full-time employees.  We believe that we have good relations with our employees.  We have adopted a Business Integrity Policy that applies to all of our employees.  Its receipt and review by each employee is documented and verified annually.











