ITEM 1. BUSINESS



General



We are a Maryland corporation formed in October 1994
that has elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes.  We are the largest owner and pre-eminent
first-in-class REIT focused principally on science-driven cluster
formation.  We are the leading provider of high-quality
environmentally sustainable real estate, technical infrastructure and services
to the broad and diverse life science industry.  Client tenants include
institutional (universities and independent not-for-profit institutions), pharmaceutical,
biotechnology, medical device, product, service and translational entities, as
well as government agencies. Our operating platform is based on the
principle of “clustering,” with assets and operations located in key life
science markets.  As of December 31, 2009, we had 156 properties (152
properties located in ten states in the United States and four properties
located in Canada) containing approximately 12.7 million rentable square feet
(including spaces undergoing active redevelopment) and properties undergoing
ground-up development of approximately 980,000 rentable square feet.



Business
and strategy



We focus our property operations and investment
activities principally in the following life science markets:



·California – San Diego;

·California – San Francisco Bay;

·Eastern Massachusetts;

·New Jersey/Suburban Philadelphia;

·New York City;

·Southeast;

·Suburban Washington, D.C.;

·Washington – Seattle; and

·International.



Our client tenant base is broad and diverse within the
life science industry and reflects our focus on regional, national and
international tenants with substantial financial and operational
resources.  For a more detailed
description of our properties and tenants, see “Item 2. Properties.”  We have an experienced board of directors and
are led by a senior management team with extensive experience in both the real
estate and life science industries.



2009 demonstrated the strength and durability of our
core operations providing office/laboratory space to the broad and diverse life
science industry.  Our core operating results were relatively steady for
the year ended December 31, 2009, during the continuing extraordinary and
unprecedented United States and worldwide economic, financial, banking and
credit market crises, significant worldwide economic recession and drastic
decline in consumer confidence and the consumer driven economy.  Financial systems throughout the world have
recently experienced significant periods of illiquidity with banks much less
willing to lend substantial amounts to other banks and borrowers.














We seek to maximize funds from operations (“FFO”),
balance sheet liquidity and flexibility and cash available for distribution to
our stockholders through the ownership, operation, management and selective
redevelopment, development and acquisition of life science properties, as well
as management of our balance sheet.  See “Item
7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations-Funds From Operations” for a discussion of how we compute and view
FFO, as well as a discussion of other measures of cash flow. In particular, we seek
to maximize FFO, balance sheet liquidity and flexibility and cash available for
distribution by:



·maintaining a strong, liquid and flexible balance
sheet;

·re-tenanting and re-leasing space at higher rental
rates while minimizing tenant improvement costs;

·maintaining solid occupancy while also maintaining
high lease rental rates;

·realizing contractual rental rate escalations, which
are currently provided for in approximately 93% of our leases (on a rentable
square footage basis);

·implementing effective cost control measures,
including negotiating pass-through provisions in tenant leases for operating
expenses and certain capital expenditures;

·improving investment returns through leasing of vacant
space and replacement of existing tenants with new tenants at higher rental
rates;

·achieving higher rental rates from existing tenants as
existing leases expire;

·selectively redeveloping existing office, warehouse,
shell space or newly acquired properties into generic laboratory space that can
be leased at higher rental rates in our target life science cluster markets;
and

·selectively developing properties in our target life
science cluster markets.



Redevelopment



A key component of our long term business model is the
redevelopment of existing office, warehouse or shell space as generic
office/laboratory space, including the conversion of single tenancy space to
multi-tenancy spaces or multi-tenancy spaces to single tenancy space that can
be leased at higher rates.  As of December 31,
2009, we had approximately 575,152 rentable square feet undergoing
redevelopment at ten projects.  In
addition to properties undergoing redevelopment, as of December 31, 2009,
our asset base contained embedded opportunities for a future permanent change
of use to office/laboratory space through redevelopment aggregating
approximately 1.5 million rentable square feet.



Development



Another key component of our long term business model
is ground-up development projects.  Our
development strategy is primarily to pursue selective projects where we expect
to achieve appropriate investment returns. 
We generally have undertaken ground-up development projects only if our
investment in infrastructure will be substantially made for generic, rather
than tenant specific, improvements. As of December 31, 2009, we had six
parcels of land undergoing ground-up development approximating 980,000 rentable
square feet of office/laboratory space. 
We also have an embedded pipeline for future ground-up development
approximating 11.1 million developable square feet of office/laboratory
space.  Future ground-up/vertical
development projects will likely require significant pre-leasing from high
quality and/or credit entities.



Tenants



As of December 31,
2009, we had 417 leases with a total of 342 tenants, and 74 of our 156
properties were single-tenant properties. 
Our three largest tenants accounted for approximately 17.1% of our
aggregate annualized base rent, or approximately 8.0%, 4.7% and 4.4%, respectively.
None of our tenants represented more than 10% of total revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2009.












Competition



In general, other life science properties are located
in close proximity to our properties. The amount of rentable space available in
any market could have a material effect on our ability to rent space and on the
rents that we can earn.  In addition, we
compete for investment opportunities with insurance companies, pension and investment
funds, private equity entities, partnerships, developers, investment companies,
other REITs, and owner/occupants. Many of these entities have substantially
greater financial resources than we do and may be able to pay more than us or
accept more risk than we are willing to accept. 
These entities may be less sensitive to risks with respect to the
creditworthiness of a tenant or the geographic concentration of their
investments.  Competition may also reduce
the number of suitable investment opportunities available to us or may increase
the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell.  Competition in acquiring existing properties
and land, both from institutional capital sources and from other REITs, has
been very strong over the past several years. We believe we have differentiated
ourselves from our competitors, as we are the largest owner, manager and
developer of life science properties, in key life science markets.



Financial information about our operating segment



See Note 2 to our
consolidated financial statements for information about our operating segment.



Available
information





Employees



As of December 31, 2009, we had 142 full-time
employees.  We believe that we have good
relations with our employees.  We have
adopted a Business Integrity Policy that applies to all of our employees.  Its receipt and review by each employee is
documented and verified annually.












