ITEM 1. BUSINESS



Overview



We are a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (“REIT”).  We are the largest and leading REIT focused principally on owning, operating, developing, redeveloping, and acquiring high-quality, sustainable real estate for the broad and diverse life science industry.  Founded in 1994, Alexandria pioneered the laboratory/office niche and has become the leading life science real estate brand and dominant market presence in the top life science clusters, including Greater Boston, the San Francisco Bay Area, San Diego, Greater New York City, Maryland, Seattle, and Research Triangle Park.  Alexandria manages its properties through fully integrated regional and life science teams with unparalleled real estate and life science expertise.  As the Landlord of Choice to the Life Science Industry

®

, Alexandria is known for its high-quality and diverse client tenant base.  Our high-credit client tenants span the life science industry, including renowned academic and medical institutions, multinational pharmaceutical companies, public and private biotechnology entities, United States (“U.S.”) government research agencies, medical device companies, industrial biotech companies, venture capital firms, and life science product and service companies.  Alexandria has a proven and superior track record of developing Class A laboratory/office assets focused primarily in key urban science and technology center campuses in AAA cluster locations adjacent to leading academic medical research centers, and offering highly creative amenities that drive client tenant productivity and foster innovation.  We believe these advantages result in higher occupancy levels, longer lease terms, higher rental income, higher returns, and greater long-term value.  We executed our initial public offering in 1997 and received our investment-grade ratings in 2011.



As ofDecember 31, 2013, Alexandria’s asset base consisted of30.9 millionsquare feet, including17.5 millionrentable square feet (“RSF”) of operating and value-creation development/redevelopment assets, as well as land supporting an additional13.4 millionsquare feet of ground-up development projects.  The occupancy percentage of our operating properties was approximately94.4%as ofDecember 31, 2013.  Investment-grade client tenants represented51%of our total annualized base rent (“ABR”) as ofDecember 31, 2013.  The comparability of financial data from period to period is affected by the timing of our property acquisition, development, and redevelopment activities.














Business objective and strategies



Our primary business objective is to maximize long-term asset value based on a multifaceted platform of internal and external growth.  Key elements of our strategy are our consistent focus on Class A laboratory/office assets and operations focused primarily in key urban science and technology center campuses in AAA life science cluster locations adjacent to life science entities driving growth and technological advances within each cluster.  These key urban science and technology center campus locations are characterized by high barriers to entry for new landlords, high barriers to exit for client tenants, and a limited supply of available space.  They represent highly desirable locations for tenancy by life science entities because of their close proximity to concentrations of specialized skills, knowledge, institutions, and related businesses.  Our strategy also includes drawing upon our deep and broad life science and real estate relationships in order to identify and attract new and leading life science client tenants and to source additional value-creation real estate.



The following chart summarizes the growth of the ABR of our assets in our key cluster submarkets:







Our client tenant base is broad and diverse within the life science industry and reflects our focus on regional, national, and international client tenants with substantial financial and operational resources.  For a more detailed description of our properties and client tenants, see “Item 2. Properties.”  We have an experienced Board of Directors and are led by a senior management team with extensive experience in both the real estate and life science industries.



Acquisitions



We seek to identify and acquire high-quality life science properties in our target life science cluster markets.  Critical evaluation of prospective property acquisitions is an essential component of our acquisition strategy.  When evaluating acquisition opportunities, we assess a full range of matters relating to the prospective property or properties, including:



ŸAdjacency to centers of innovation and technological advances;

ŸLocation of the property and our strategy in the relevant market;

ŸQuality of existing and prospective client tenants;

ŸCondition and capacity of the building infrastructure;

ŸQuality and generic characteristics of the laboratory facilities;

ŸPhysical condition of the structure and common area improvements;

ŸOpportunities available for leasing vacant space and for re-tenanting occupied space;

ŸAvailability of land for future ground-up development of new laboratory/office space; and

ŸOpportunities to redevelop existing space into higher-rent, generic, and reusable laboratory/office space.














Development



A key component of our long-term business model is ground-up development projects.  Our development strategy is primarily to pursue selective projects with significant pre-leasing where we expect to achieve appropriate investment returns and generally match a source of funds for this use.  Our ground-up development projects focus primarily on investment in generic and reusable laboratory/office improvements, rather than tenant-specific improvements.



Redevelopment



Another key component of our long-term business model is the redevelopment of existing office, warehouse, or shell space into generic and reusable laboratory/office space that can be leased at higher rates.  Our redevelopment strategy includes significant pre-leasing of certain projects prior to the commencement of redevelopment.



Balance sheet and financial strategy



We seek to maximize balance sheet liquidity and flexibility, cash flows, and cash available for distribution to our stockholders through the ownership, operation, management, and selective acquisition, development, and redevelopment of life science properties, as well as management of our balance sheet.  In particular, we seek to maximize balance sheet liquidity and flexibility, cash flows, and cash available for distribution by:



ŸMaintaining significant liquidity through borrowing capacity under our unsecured senior line of credit, available commitments under secured construction loans, and cash and cash equivalents;

ŸMinimizing the amount of near-term debt maturities in a single year;

ŸMaintaining low to modest leverage;

ŸMinimizing variable interest rate risk;

ŸMaintaining strong and stable operating cash flows;

ŸRenewing existing client tenant space at higher rental rates to the extent possible;

ŸMinimizing tenant improvement costs;

ŸImproving investment returns through leasing of vacant space and replacing existing client tenants with new client tenants at higher rental rates;

ŸMaintaining solid occupancy while also maintaining high lease rental rates;

ŸRealizing contractual rental rate escalations, which are currently provided for in approximately95%of our leases (on an RSF basis);

ŸImplementing effective cost control measures, including negotiating pass-through provisions in client tenant leases for operating expenses and certain capital expenditures;

ŸSelectively selling real estate assets, primarily non-income-producing land parcels;

ŸSelectively acquiring high-quality life science properties in our target life science cluster markets at prices that enable us to realize attractive returns;

ŸSelectively developing properties in our target life science cluster markets; and

ŸSelectively redeveloping existing office, warehouse, or shell space, or newly acquired properties, into generic laboratory/office space that can be leased at higher rental rates in our target life science cluster markets.














Client tenants

Key InformationDecember 31, 2013Total leases527Total client tenants425Total properties180Single-tenant properties79Percentage of single-tenant properties43.9%Percentage of aggregate ABR from three largest client tenants:Novartis AG6.7%Illumina, Inc.3.9%New York University3.8%Total percentage of aggregate ABR from three largest client tenants14.4%



Competition





Financial information about our operating segment



See Note 2, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements for information about our operating segment.



Regulation



General



Properties in our markets are subject to various laws, ordinances, and regulations, including regulations relating to common areas.  We believe we have the necessary permits and approvals to operate each of our properties.














Americans with Disabilities Act



Our properties must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the “ADA”), to the extent that such properties are “public accommodations” as defined by the ADA.  The ADA may require removal of structural barriers to access by persons with disabilities in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable.  We believe that our properties are in substantial compliance with the ADA and that we will not be required to incur substantial capital expenditures to address the requirements of the ADA.  However, noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants.  The obligation to make readily achievable accommodations is an ongoing one, and we will continue to assess our properties and make alterations as appropriate in this respect.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors -We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws.”



Environmental matters



Under various environmental protection laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of hazardous or toxic substances at that property, and may be required to investigate and clean up contamination located on or emanating from that property.  Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants, and the liability may be joint and several.  Previous owners used some of our properties for industrial and other purposes, so those properties may contain some level of environmental contamination.  The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties may expose us to third-party liability or may materially adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, or develop the real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral.



Some of our properties may have asbestos-containing building materials.  Environmental laws require that asbestos-containing building materials be properly managed and maintained, and may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements.  These laws may also allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials.



In addition, some of our client tenants routinely handle hazardous substances and wastes as part of their operations at our properties.  Environmental laws and regulations subject our client tenants, and potentially us, to liability resulting from these activities or from previous uses of those properties.  Environmental liabilities could also affect a client tenant’s ability to make rental payments to us.  We require our client tenants to comply with these environmental laws and regulations.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors -We could be held liable for damages resulting from our client tenants’ use of hazardous materials.”



Independent environmental consultants have conducted Phase I or similar environmental site assessments on the properties in our portfolio.  Site assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property and surrounding properties, and do not generally include soil samplings, subsurface investigations, or an asbestos survey.  To date, these assessments have not revealed any material environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, or results of operations.  Nevertheless, it is possible that the assessments on our properties have not revealed all environmental conditions, liabilities, or compliance concerns, which may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future; and future laws, ordinances, or regulations may impose material additional environmental liability.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors -We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws.”



Insurance



We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, and rental loss insurance with respect to our properties.  We select policy specifications and insured limits that we believe to be appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage, and industry practice.  In the opinion of management, the properties in our portfolio are currently adequately insured.  In addition, we have obtained earthquake insurance for certain properties located in the vicinity of known active earthquake faults.  We also carry environmental remediation insurance and title insurance on our properties.  We generally obtain our title insurance policies when we acquire the property, with each policy covering an amount equal to the initial purchase price of each property.  Accordingly, any of our title insurance policies may be in an amount less than the current value of the related property.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors –Our insurance may not adequately cover all potential losses.”














Available information



Copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, including any amendments to the foregoing reports, are available, free of charge, through our corporate website at www.are.com as soon as is reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  The current charters of our Board of Directors’ Audit, Compensation, and Nominating & Governance Committees, along with the Company’s corporate governance guidelines and Business Integrity Policy and Procedures for Reporting Non-Compliance (the “Business Integrity Policy”), are available on our corporate website.  Additionally, any amendments to, and waivers of, our Business Integrity Policy that apply to our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will be available free of charge on our corporate website in accordance with applicable SEC and New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) requirements.  Written requests should be sent to Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc., 385 East Colorado Boulevard, Suite 299, Pasadena, California 91101, Attention: Investor Relations.  Further, a copy of this annual report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The public may also download these materials from the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.



Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had215full-time employees.  We believe that we have good relations with our employees.  We have adopted a Business Integrity Policy that applies to all of our employees.  Its receipt and review by each employee is documented and verified annually.





