ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

We are the largest discount retailer in the United States by number of stores, with 9,414 stores located in 35 states as of February 25, 2011, primarily in the southern, southwestern, midwestern and eastern United States. We offer a broad selection of merchandise, including consumables, seasonal, home products and apparel. Our merchandise includes high quality national brands from leading manufacturers, as well as comparable quality private brand selections with prices at substantial discounts to national brands. We offer our merchandise at everyday low prices (typically $10 or less) through our convenient small-box (approximately 7,200 square feet) locations.

Our History

J.L. Turner founded our Company in 1939 as J.L. Turner and Son, Wholesale. We were incorporated as a Kentucky corporation under the name J.L. Turner & Son, Inc. in 1955, when we opened our first Dollar General store. We changed our name to Dollar General Corporation in 1968 and reincorporated in 1998 as a Tennessee corporation. Our common stock was publicly traded from 1968 until July 2007, when we merged with an entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., or KKR. On November 13, 2009 our common stock again became publicly traded upon our completion of an initial public offering of 39,215,000 shares of our common stock, including 22,700,000 newly issued shares. We are majority owned by Buck Holdings, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership controlled by KKR, which beneficially owns approximately 71% of our outstanding common stock.

Our Business Model

Our long history of profitable growth is founded on a commitment to a relatively simple business model: providing a broad base of customers with their basic everyday and household needs, supplemented with a variety of general merchandise items, at everyday low prices in conveniently located, small-box stores.

Fiscal year 2010 represented our 21st consecutive year of same-store sales growth. This growth, regardless of economic conditions, suggests that we have a less cyclical model than most retailers and, we believe, is a result of our compelling value and convenience proposition. Both customer traffic and average transaction amount increased during 2009 and 2010 despite a very difficult economic environment. We believe that our customers recognize our efforts to provide them with a pleasant, efficient shopping experience along with our ongoing commitment to meet their everyday needs, which encourages them to continue to shop with us in the future.

Our attractive store economics, including a relatively low initial investment and simple, low cost operating model, have allowed us to grow our store base to over 9,400 stores in 35 states, and provide us significant opportunities to continue our strategy of profitable store growth.


Compelling Value and Convenience Proposition

.

Our ability to deliver highly competitive prices on national brand and quality private brand products in convenient locations and our easy in and out shopping format create a compelling shopping experience that distinguishes us from other discount, convenience and drugstore retailers. Our slogan, “Save time. Save money. Every day!” summarizes our appeal to customers. We believe our ability to effectively deliver both value and convenience allows us to succeed in small markets with limited shopping alternatives, as well as to profitably coexist alongside larger retailers in more competitive markets. Our compelling value and convenience proposition is evidenced by the following attributes of our business model:

·

Convenient Locations.

Our stores are conveniently located in a variety of rural, suburban and urban communities, currently with nearly 70% serving communities with populations of less than 20,000. In more densely populated areas, our small-box stores typically serve the closely surrounding neighborhoods. The majority of our customers live within three to five miles, or a 10-minute drive, of our stores. Our close proximity to customers drives customer loyalty and trip frequency and makes us an attractive alternative to large discount and other large-box retail and grocery stores which are often located farther away. Our low cost economic model enables us to serve many areas with fewer than 1,500 households.

·

Time-Saving Shopping Experience.

We also provide customers with a highly convenient shopping experience. Our stores’ smaller size allows us to locate parking near the front entrance where shopping carts are located to promote efficient navigation of the store. Our product offering includes most necessities, such as basic packaged and refrigerated food and dairy products, cleaning supplies, paper products, and health and beauty care items, as well as greeting cards, party supplies, apparel, housewares, hardware and automotive supplies, among others. Our typical store hours are 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., seven days per week. Our convenient hours and broad merchandise offering allow our customers to fulfill their routine shopping requirements and minimize their need to shop elsewhere.

·

Everyday Low Prices on Quality Merchandise.

Our research indicates that we offer a price advantage over most food and drug retailers and that our prices are highly competitive with even the largest discount retailers. Our ability to offer everyday low prices on quality merchandise is supported by our low-cost operating structure and our strategy to maintain a limited number of stock keeping units (“SKUs”) per category, which we believe helps us maintain strong purchasing power. Most items are priced below $10, with approximately 24% at $1 or less. We offer quality nationally advertised brands at these everyday low prices in addition to offering our own comparable quality private brands at value prices.

Attractive Store Economics.

The traditional Dollar General store size, design and location requires minimal initial investment and low maintenance capital expenditures. Our typical locations involve a modest, no-frills building, which helps keep our rental and other fixed overhead costs relatively low. When coupled with our new stores’ ability to generally deliver positive cash flow in the first year, this low capital expenditure requirement typically results in pay back of capital in less than two years. Our stringent market analysis, real estate site selection


and new store approval processes as well as our new store marketing programs help us optimize financial returns and minimize the risks of opening unprofitable stores.

Our lean store staffing model and centralized management of utilities, maintenance and supplies procurement contribute to our relatively low operating costs and efficient store operations.

Substantial Growth Opportunities.

We believe that we have substantial growth opportunities through both improved profitability of existing stores and new store openings. We are pursuing a number of initiatives which we expect to continue to improve the profitability of our existing store base. In addition, we have identified significant opportunities to add new stores in both existing and new markets. We believe we have the long-term potential in the U.S. to more than double our existing store base while maintaining strong returns on capital. See ‘‘Our Growth Strategy’’ for additional details.

Our Growth Strategy

We believe we have the right strategy and execution capabilities to capitalize on the considerable growth opportunities afforded by our business model. We believe we continue to have significant opportunities to drive profitable growth through increasing same-store sales, expanding our operating profit rate and growing our store base.

Increasing Same-Store Sales.

We believe the combination of our necessity-driven product mix and our attractive value proposition, including a well-balanced merchandising approach, provides a strong basis for increased sales. Our average sales per square foot increased to $201 in 2010 from $195 in 2009 and $180 in 2008. We believe we will continue to have additional opportunities to increase our store productivity through improved in-stock positions, price optimization, continued improvements in space utilization, and additional operating and merchandising initiatives. Among numerous additional projects in 2011, we plan to further expand our frozen and refrigerated food and health and beauty aids offerings. We will also continue to focus on increasing sales in our home, apparel and seasonal categories

.

In addition, we plan to relocate or remodel approximately 550 stores in 2011, which we expect to further drive same-store sales growth. In 2010, we remodeled or relocated 504 stores. Remodels and relocations generally consist of updating the stores to our new customer centric format, which we believe appeals to a broader customer base. A relocation typically results in an improved, more visible and accessible location, and usually includes increased square footage. We continue to have opportunities for additional remodels and relocations beyond 2011.

Expanding Operating Profit Rate.

Another key component of our growth strategy is improving our operating profit rate through enhanced gross profit and expense reduction initiatives. Our financial results during 2010 and 2009 reflect the favorable impact of our strong category management processes on gross margin improvement and our continued efforts to reduce selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales.

In recent months, we have begun to see many of our product categories impacted by increased costs of commodities, including cotton, wheat, corn, sugar, coffee and resin, as well as increased transportation fuel costs, which have increased significantly in early 2011. These


increases pose a challenge to our continued priority of improving our gross profit rate. However, we believe we have options available to mitigate the impact of these increases, including our price optimization, changes to our product selection, such as alternate national brands and the expansion of our private brands, and modifications to our packaging and product size, including items in our planned expansion of merchandise selections priced at $1.00. In addition, we continue to focus on reducing inventory shrinkage and improving distribution efficiencies.

We intend to continue to drive our private brand penetration going forward. Our private brand program complements our model of offering customers nationally branded consumables merchandise at everyday low prices. Generally, private brand items have higher gross profit margins than similar national brand items, and in 2010 represented approximately 22% of our consumables sales. In 2010, we made significant progress in expanding our private brand efforts to our non-consumable offerings, dramatically improving the visual impact of our many non-consumables, including housewares, domestics, lawn and garden tools and summer toys.

We believe we have the potential to directly source a larger portion of our products at significant savings to current costs. In 2010, we imported approximately $750 million of goods, or 8% of total purchases, at cost.

We continually look for ways to improve our cost structure and enhance efficiencies throughout the organization. In 2010, we centralized our procurement system which we expect to aid us in reducing the cost of purchases throughout the company in 2011 and beyond. In addition, we have begun to implement a store labor management and work simplification program, and we are continuing our store rent reduction initiative.

Growing Our Store Base

. Based on a detailed, market-by-market analysis, we believe we have the potential to at least double our current number of stores through expansion in both existing and new markets. In 2011, we plan to enter three new states, Connecticut, New Hampshire and Nevada. We have confidence in our real estate disciplines and in our ability to identify, open and operate successful new stores. As a result, we believe that at least our present level of new store growth is sustainable for the foreseeable future. In addition, we continue to believe that in the current real estate market environment there may be opportunities to negotiate lower rent than would have previously been available, allowing us to continue to improve the overall quality of our sites at attractive rental rates.

Our Merchandise

We offer a focused assortment of everyday necessities, which drive frequent customer visits, and key items in a broad range of general merchandise categories. Our product assortment provides the opportunity for our customers to address most of their basic shopping needs with one trip. We sell high quality national brands from leading manufacturers such as Procter & Gamble, Kimberly Clark, Unilever, Kellogg’s, General Mills, Nabisco, Coca-Cola and PepsiCo, which are typically found at higher retail prices elsewhere. Additionally, our private brand selections offer consumers even greater value with options to purchase value items and national brand equivalent products at substantial discounts to the national brand.


Our stores generally offer approximately 10,000 total SKUs per store. The number of SKUs in a given store can vary based upon the store’s size, geographic location, merchandising initiatives, seasonality, and other factors. Most of our products are priced at $10 or less, with approximately 24% at $1 or less. We separate our merchandise into four categories: 1) consumables; 2) seasonal; 3) home products; and 4) apparel.

Consumables is our largest category and includes paper and cleaning products (such as paper towels, bath tissue, paper dinnerware, trash and storage bags, laundry and other home cleaning supplies); food, including packaged food and perishables (such as cereals, canned soups and vegetables, sugar, flour, milk, eggs and bread); beverages and snacks (including candy, cookies, crackers, salty snacks and carbonated beverages); health and beauty (including over-the-counter medicines and personal care products, such as soap, body wash, shampoo, dental hygiene and foot care products); and pet (including pet supplies and pet food).

Seasonal products include decorations, toys, batteries, small electronics, greeting cards, stationery, prepaid cell phones and accessories, gardening supplies, hardware, automotive and home office supplies.

Home products includes kitchen supplies, cookware, small appliances, light bulbs, storage containers, frames, candles, craft supplies and kitchen, bed and bath soft goods.

Apparel includes casual everyday apparel for infants, toddlers, girls, boys, women and men, as well as socks, underwear, disposable diapers, shoes and accessories.

The percentage of net sales of each of our four categories of merchandise for the fiscal years indicated below was as follows:

Our home products and seasonal categories typically account for the highest gross profit margins, and the consumables category typically accounts for the lowest gross profit margin.

The Dollar General Store

The average Dollar General store has approximately 7,200 square feet of selling space and is typically operated by a manager, an assistant manager and three or more sales clerks. Approximately 58% of our stores are in freestanding buildings, 41% in strip shopping centers and 1% are in downtown buildings. Most of our customers live within three to five miles, or a 10 minute drive, of our stores. Our store strategy features low initial capital expenditures, limited maintenance capital, low occupancy and operating costs, and a focused merchandise offering within a broad range of categories, allowing us to deliver low retail prices while generating strong cash flows and investment returns. In 2010, the average cost of equipment and fixtures in our leased stores was approximately $165,000. Initial inventory, net of payables, increases the investment in a new store by approximately $75,000.


We generally have not encountered difficulty locating suitable store sites in the past. Given the size of the communities that we target, we believe that there is ample opportunity for new store growth in existing and new markets. In addition, the current real estate market is providing an opportunity for us to access higher quality sites at lower rates than in recent years. Also, we believe we have significant opportunities available for our relocation and remodel programs. We spend approximately $75,000 for equipment and fixtures to remodel a store and approximately $140,000 to relocate one. We remodeled or relocated 504 stores in 2010, 450 in 2009 and 404 in 2008.

Our recent store growth is summarized in the following table:

Our Customers

Our customers seek value and convenience. Depending on their financial situation and geographic proximity, customers’ reliance on Dollar General varies from fill-in shopping to periodic routine trips in order to stock up on household items, to weekly or more frequent trips to meet most essential needs. We believe that our value and convenience proposition attracts customers from a wide range of income brackets and life stages. In the last year, we have seen increases in the annual number of shopping trips that our customers make to Dollar General as well as the amount spent during each trip.

We continue to focus on the quality, selection and pricing of our merchandise, targeted advertising, improved store standards and site selection processes, among other initiatives, to attract new and retain existing customers.

Our Suppliers

We purchase merchandise from a wide variety of suppliers and maintain direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand merchandise, such as Procter & Gamble, Kimberly Clark, Unilever, Kellogg’s, General Mills, Nabisco, Coca-Cola and PepsiCo. Despite our broad offering, we maintain only a limited number of SKUs per category, giving us a pricing advantage in dealing with our suppliers. Approximately 9% and 7% of our purchases in 2010 were from our largest and second largest suppliers, respectively. Our private brands come from a diversified supplier base. We directly imported approximately 8% of our purchases at cost (13% of our purchases at retail) in 2010. Our vendor arrangements generally provide for payment for such merchandise in U.S. dollars.

We have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of core merchandise and believe that, if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we would generally be able to obtain alternative sources without experiencing a substantial disruption of our business. However, such alternative sources could increase our


merchandise costs or reduce the quality of our merchandise, and an inability to obtain alternative sources could adversely affect our sales.

Distribution, Transportation and Inventory Management

Our stores are supported by nine distribution centers located strategically throughout our geographic footprint. Of these nine, we own six and lease the other three. We lease additional temporary warehouse space as necessary to support our distribution needs. To support our growth, we are in the process of constructing our tenth distribution center near Birmingham, Alabama. We expect this new distribution center to be operational in 2012. Over the past few years we have made significant investments in facilities, technological improvements and upgrades, and we continue to improve work processes, all of which increase our efficiency and ability to support our merchandising and operations initiatives as well as our new store growth. We continually analyze and rebalance the network to ensure that it remains efficient and provides the service our stores require. See ‘‘—Properties’’ for additional information pertaining to our distribution centers.

Most of our merchandise flows through our distributions centers and is delivered to our stores by third-party trucking firms, utilizing our trailers. Our agreements with these trucking firms are based on estimated costs of diesel fuel, with the difference in estimated and current market fuel costs passed through to us. The costs of diesel fuel are significantly influenced by international, political and economic circumstances, and have risen in recent months, including considerable increases in early 2011. If such increased prices remain in effect, or if further price increases were to arise for any reason, including fuel supply shortages or unusual price volatility, the resulting higher fuel prices could materially increase our transportation costs.

In addition, we believe that there remains opportunity to improve our inventory turns. Initiatives in process include operational efforts to optimize presentation levels and decrease excess quantities shipped to our stores. We continue to focus on SKU optimization in an attempt to ensure that we can meet our customers’ demands for our most popular products as well as for product assortment. We are also in the early stages of implementing an improved supply chain solution to assist in ordering, monitoring and tracking inventory from purchase order to receipt to maintain efficient levels of inventory. We turned our inventory approximately 5.2 times over the most recent four quarters.

Seasonality

Our business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, our highest sales volume occurs in the fourth quarter, which includes the Christmas selling season, and the lowest occurs in the first quarter. In addition, our quarterly results can be affected by the timing of new store openings and store closings, the amount of sales contributed by new and existing stores, as well as the timing of certain holidays. We purchase substantial amounts of inventory in the third quarter and incur higher shipping costs and higher payroll costs in anticipation of the increased sales activity during the fourth quarter. In addition, we carry merchandise during our fourth quarter that we do not carry during the rest of the year, such as gift sets, holiday decorations, certain baking items, and a broader assortment of toys and candy.


The following table reflects the seasonality of net sales, gross profit, and net income (loss) by quarter for each of the quarters of our three most recent fiscal years. All of the quarters reflected below are comprised of 13 weeks.

(a)

Includes expenses, net of income taxes, of $82.9 million related to our initial public offering during the fourth quarter of 2009.

(b)

Includes expenses, net of income taxes, of $37.4 million related to the settlement of a shareholder lawsuit during the third quarter of 2008.

Our Competition

We operate in the basic discount consumer goods market, which is highly competitive with respect to price, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and presentation, in-stock consistency, and customer service. We compete with discount stores and with many other retailers, including mass merchandise, grocery, drug, convenience, variety and other specialty stores. These other retail companies operate stores in many of the areas where we operate, and many of them engage in extensive advertising and marketing efforts. Our direct competitors include Family Dollar, Dollar Tree, Fred’s, 99 Cents Only and various local, independent operators, as well as Walmart, Walgreens, CVS, Rite Aid, Target and Costco, among others. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do.

We differentiate ourselves from other forms of retailing by offering consistently low prices in a convenient, small-store format. We believe that our prices are competitive due in part to our low cost operating structure and the relatively limited assortment of products offered. Historically, we have minimized labor by offering fewer price points and a reliance on simple merchandise presentation. Purchasing large volumes of merchandise within our focused assortment in each merchandise category allows us to keep our average costs low, contributing to our ability to offer competitive everyday low prices to our customers. See “—Our Business Model” above for further discussion of our competitive situation.


Our Employees

As of February 25, 2011, we employed approximately 85,900 full-time and part-time employees, including divisional and regional managers, district managers, store managers, other store personnel and distribution center and administrative personnel. We have increasingly focused on recruiting, training, motivating and retaining employees, and we believe that the quality, performance and morale of our employees have increased as a result. We currently are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements.

Our Trademarks

We own marks that are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and are protected under applicable intellectual property laws, including without limitation the trademarks Dollar General®, Dollar General Market®, Clover Valley®, DG®, DG Guarantee®, Smart & Simple®, trueliving®, Sweet Smiles® and the Dollar General price point designs, along with variations and formatives of these trademarks as well as certain other trademarks. We attempt to obtain registration of our trademarks whenever practicable and to pursue vigorously any infringement of those marks. Our trademark registrations have various expiration dates; however, assuming that the trademark registrations are properly renewed, they have a perpetual duration.

We also hold licenses to use various trademarks owned by third parties, including an exclusive license to the Bobbie Brooks brand for clothing through March 31, 2011, with the option to renew such license on a year-to-year basis, a license to the Fisher Price brand for certain items of children’s clothing through December 31, 2013, and an exclusive license to the Rexall brand through March 5, 2020.

Available Information

Our Web site address is www.dollargeneral.com. We file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, registration statements and other documents. These documents are available free of charge to investors on or through the Investor Information portion of our Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as Dollar General, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that Web site is http://www.sec.gov.