ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General

We are the largest discount retailer in the United States by number of stores, with 10,557 stores located in 40 states as of
March 1, 2013, primarily in the southern, southwestern, midwestern and eastern United States. We offer a broad selection of merchandise, including consumables, seasonal, home products and
apparel. Our merchandise includes high quality national brands from leading manufacturers, as well as comparable quality private brand selections with prices at substantial discounts to national
brands. We offer our merchandise at everyday low prices (typically $10 or less) through our convenient small-box locations, with selling space averaging approximately 7,300 square feet.

Our History

J.L. Turner founded our Company in 1939 as J.L. Turner and Son, Wholesale. We were incorporated as a Kentucky corporation under the
name J.L. Turner & Son, Inc. in 1955, when we opened our first Dollar General store. We changed our name to Dollar General Corporation in 1968 and reincorporated in 1998 as a Tennessee
corporation. Our common stock was publicly traded from 1968 until July 2007, when we merged with an entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co. L.P., or KKR. In November 2009 our common stock again became publicly traded.

Our Business Model

Our long history of profitable growth is founded on a commitment to a relatively simple business model: providing a broad base of
customers with their basic everyday and household needs, supplemented with a variety of general merchandise items, at everyday low prices in conveniently located, small-box stores. We
continually evaluate the needs and demands of our customers and modify our merchandise selections and pricing accordingly, while remaining focused on increasing profitability for our shareholders.

Fiscal
year 2012 represented our 23rdconsecutive year of same-store sales growth. This growth, regardless of economic conditions, suggests that we have
a less cyclical model than most retailers and, we believe, is a result of our compelling value and convenience proposition.

Our
attractive store economics, including a relatively low initial investment and simple, low cost operating model, have allowed us to grow our store base to current levels, and provide
us significant opportunities to continue our profitable store growth strategy.

Compelling Value and Convenience Proposition.Our ability to deliver highly competitive prices on national brand and quality
private brand products
in convenient locations and our easy "in and out" shopping format create a compelling shopping experience that distinguishes us from other discount, convenience and drugstore retailers. Our slogan,
"Save time. Save money. Every day!" summarizes our appeal to customers. We believe our ability to effectively deliver both value and convenience allows us to succeed in small markets with limited
shopping alternatives, as well as to profitably coexist alongside larger retailers in more competitive markets. Our compelling value and convenience proposition is evidenced by the following
attributes of our business model:

•Convenient Locations.Our stores are conveniently located
in a variety of rural, suburban and urban communities, currently with approximately 70% serving communities with populations of less than 20,000. In more densely populated areas, our
small-box stores typically serve the closely surrounding neighborhoods. The majority of our customers live within three to five miles, or a








10-minute
drive, of our stores. Our close proximity to customers drives customer loyalty and trip frequency and makes us an attractive alternative to large discount and other
large-box retail and grocery stores which are often located farther away. Our low-cost economic model enables us to serve many areas with fewer than 1,500 households.

•Time-Saving Shopping Experience.We also
provide customers with a highly convenient shopping experience. Our stores' smaller size allows us to locate parking near the front entrance. Our product offering includes most necessities, such as
basic packaged and refrigerated food and dairy products, cleaning supplies, paper products, and health and beauty care items, as well as greeting cards, party supplies, apparel, housewares, hardware
and automotive supplies, among others. Our typical store opens at 8:00 a.m. and closes at 9:00 p.m. or 10:00 p.m., seven days per week. Our convenient hours and broad merchandise
offering allow our customers to fulfill their routine shopping requirements and minimize their need to shop elsewhere.•Everyday Low Prices on Quality Merchandise.Our research
indicates that we offer a price advantage over most food and drug retailers and that our prices are highly competitive with even the largest discount retailers. Our ability to offer everyday low
prices on quality merchandise is supported by our low-cost operating structure and our strategy to maintain a limited number of stock keeping units ("SKUs") per category, which we believe
helps us maintain strong purchasing power. Most items are priced below $10, with approximately 25% at $1 or less. We offer quality nationally advertised brands at these everyday low prices in addition
to offering our own comparable quality private brands at value prices.

Substantial Growth Opportunities.We believe we have significant long-term growth potential in the U.S. We have identified
significant
opportunities to add new stores in both existing and new markets. In addition, we have opportunities within our existing store base to relocate or remodel to better serve our customers. As part of our
growth strategy, we are developing and testing new store formats, with a current focus on providing customers convenient access to more affordable perishable food items. See "Our Growth Strategy" for
additional details.

Our Growth Strategy

We believe that our strategy and execution capabilities will allow us to capitalize on the considerable growth opportunities afforded
by our business model. Specifically, we believe we continue to have significant opportunities to drive profitable growth through increasing same-store sales, expanding our operating profit
rate and growing our store base.

Increasing Same-Store Sales.We believe our customer-driven merchandise mix and attractive value proposition, combined with our
ongoing
new store expansion strategy and the impact of our remodeled and relocated stores, provide a strong basis for increased same-store sales. We define "same-stores" as stores that
have been open for at least 13 months at the beginning of each monthly accounting period, and we include stores that have been remodeled, expanded or relocated in our same-store
sales calculation. Our average net sales per square foot, based on total stores, increased to $216 in 2012 from $213 in 2011 (which included a contribution of approximately $4 from the
53rdweek) and $201 in 2010. We believe we have opportunities to increase our store productivity in 2013 through continued improvement in our in-stock positions,
improvements in store space utilization, price optimization and additional operating and merchandising initiatives, including the addition of tobacco products and further expansion of our frozen and
refrigerated food offerings, value-priced seasonal items, and electronics.

We
remodeled or relocated 592 stores in 2012, and we plan to remodel or relocate approximately 550 stores in 2013. A relocation typically results in an improved, more visible and
accessible location, and usually includes increased square footage. A remodel typically involves new fixtures, signage and








other
upgrades, resulting in an improved in-store experience for our customers. We believe we will continue to have opportunities for additional remodels and relocations beyond 2013.

Expanding Operating Profit Rate.Another key component of our growth strategy is improving our operating profit rate through
enhanced gross profit
and expense reduction initiatives.

We
remain committed to an everyday low price ("EDLP") strategy that our customers can depend on. To strengthen our adherence to this strategy and still protect gross profit, we utilize
various pricing and merchandising options, including zone pricing, markdown optimization strategies and changes to our product selection, such as alternate national brands and the expansion of our
private brands, which generally have higher gross profit rates. In addition, we maintain an ongoing focus on reducing transportation and distribution costs as well as minimizing inventory shrinkage
and damages. Over the long term, we believe there are additional opportunities to reduce product costs, including further expansion of our private brands, additional shrink reduction, benefits from
expansion of foreign sourcing and incremental distribution and transportation efficiencies. We also plan to continue to introduce new non-consumable products. The addition of tobacco
products and the further expansion of coolers are expected to modestly pressure our operating profit rate in 2013.

As
part of our ongoing effort to improve our cost structure and enhance efficiencies throughout the organization, in 2012, we simplified many of our store processes and achieved
significant incremental benefits from our store workforce management program, implemented in 2011. We expect to achieve further efficiencies in 2013 and to realize additional cost savings from our
centralized procurement initiative.

Growing Our Store Base.After slowing our growth rate in 2007 and 2008 to focus on significantly improving the sales and
profitability of our stores,
we accelerated our expansion in 2009 and have grown our retail square footage by approximately 7% annually since that time. In 2012, we made our initial entrance into California and Massachusetts, and
in 2011 we entered Connecticut, New Hampshire and Nevada, our first new states since 2006. We have confidence in our real estate disciplines and in our ability to identify, open and operate successful
new stores. In 2013, we plan to again increase our square footage by approximately 7% as we further expand in our core markets and newer states and continue to evaluate our long-term
opportunities to best serve the needs of customers in new markets and more densely populated metropolitan areas.

Our Merchandise

We offer a focused assortment of everyday necessities, which drive frequent customer visits, and key items in a broad range of general
merchandise categories. Our product assortment provides the opportunity for our customers to address most of their basic shopping needs with one trip. We sell high quality national brands from leading
manufacturers such as Procter & Gamble, PepsiCo, Coca-Cola, Nestle, General Mills, Unilever, Kimberly Clark, Kellogg's and Nabisco, which are typically found at higher retail prices
elsewhere. Additionally, our private brand consumables offer even greater value with options to purchase value items and national brand equivalent products at substantial discounts to the national
brand.

Our
stores generally offer approximately 10,000 total SKUs per store; however, the number of SKUs in a given store can vary based upon the store's size, geographic location,
merchandising initiatives, seasonality, and other factors. Most of our products are priced at $10 or less, with approximately 25% at $1 or less. We separate our merchandise into four categories:
1) consumables; 2) seasonal; 3) home products; and 4) apparel.

Consumables
is our largest category and includes paper and cleaning products (such as paper towels, bath tissue, paper dinnerware, trash and storage bags, laundry and other home cleaning
supplies); packaged food (such as cereals, canned soups and vegetables, condiments, spices, sugar and








flour);
perishables (such as milk, eggs, bread, frozen meals, beer and wine); snacks (including candy, cookies, crackers, salty snacks and carbonated beverages); health and beauty (including
over-the-counter medicines and personal care products, such as soap, body wash, shampoo, dental hygiene and foot care products); and pet (including pet supplies and pet food).

Seasonal
products include decorations, toys, batteries, small electronics, greeting cards, stationery, prepaid phones and accessories, gardening supplies, hardware, automotive and home
office supplies.

Home
products includes kitchen supplies, cookware, small appliances, light bulbs, storage containers, frames, candles, craft supplies and kitchen, bed and bath soft goods.

Apparel
includes casual everyday apparel for infants, toddlers, girls, boys, women and men, as well as socks, underwear, disposable diapers, shoes and accessories.

The
percentage of net sales of each of our four categories of merchandise for the fiscal years indicated below was as follows:

201220112010Consumables73.9%73.2%71.6%Seasonal13.6%13.8%14.5%Home products6.6%6.8%7.0%Apparel5.9%6.2%6.9%

Our
seasonal and home products categories typically account for the highest gross profit margins, and the consumables category typically accounts for the lowest gross profit margin.

The Dollar General Store

The typical Dollar General store has, on average, approximately 7,300 square feet of selling space and is typically operated by a store
manager, an assistant store manager and three or more sales clerks. Approximately 63% of our stores are in freestanding buildings and 37% are in strip shopping centers. Most of our customers live
within three to five miles, or a 10 minute drive, of our stores.

Our
traditional store strategy features a low cost, no frills building with limited maintenance capital, low operating costs, and a focused merchandise offering within a broad range of
categories, allowing us to deliver low retail prices while generating strong cash flows and investment returns. Our initial capital investment in new stores varies depending on the lease structure or
ownership as well as the size and location of the store. "Plus" stores, our new format with a significantly expanded frozen and refrigerated food section when compared to our traditional stores, have
higher initial capital costs and are more costly to operate. Likewise, additional space, equipment, and operating costs, including store labor, are required in our Dollar General Market stores,
primarily to handle fresh meats and produce. In 2012, a significant majority of the new stores we opened were traditional stores. We are continuing to test the Plus and Market concepts and look for
areas to increase sales productivity and lower our costs to open and operate.

We
generally have had good success in locating suitable store sites in the past, and we believe that there is ample opportunity for new store growth in existing and new markets. In
addition, we believe we have significant opportunities available for our relocation and remodel programs. We remodeled or relocated 592 stores in 2012, 575 in 2011 and 504 in 2010. Our remodels and
relocations in 2012 included 82 stores which we converted to Plus stores. At the end of 2012, we operated 10,272 traditional stores, 124 Plus stores, averaging approximately 10,000 square feet of
selling space, and 110 Dollar General Market stores, averaging approximately 16,000 square feet of selling space.








Our
recent store growth is summarized in the following table:

YearStores atBeginningof YearStoresOpenedStoresClosedNetStoreIncreaseStores atEnd of Year20108,828600565449,37220119,372625605659,93720129,9376255656910,506

Our Customers

Our customers seek value and convenience. Depending on their financial situation and geographic proximity, customers' reliance on
Dollar General varies from using Dollar General for fill-in shopping, to making periodic trips to stock up on household items, to making weekly or more frequent trips to meet most
essential needs. We generally locate our stores and plan our merchandise selections to best serve the needs of our core customers, the low to lower-middle or fixed income households often underserved
by other retailers. At the same time, however, customers from a wide range of income brackets and life stages appreciate our quality merchandise and attractive value and convenience proposition and
are loyal Dollar General shoppers. In the last year, we have continued to see increases in the annual number of shopping trips that our customers make to our stores as well as the amount spent during
each trip.

To
attract new and retain existing customers, we continue to focus on product quality and selection, in-stock levels and pricing, targeted advertising, improved store
standards, convenient site locations, and a pleasant overall customer experience.

Our Suppliers

We purchase merchandise from a wide variety of suppliers and maintain direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand
merchandise, such as Procter & Gamble, PepsiCo, Coca-Cola, Nestle, General Mills, Unilever, Kimberly Clark, Kellogg's, and Nabisco. Despite our broad offering, we maintain only a
limited number of SKUs per category, giving us a pricing advantage in dealing with our suppliers. Approximately 8% and 7% of our purchases in 2012 were from our largest and second largest suppliers,
respectively. Our private brands come from a diversified supplier base. We directly imported approximately $765 million or 7% of our purchases at cost (11% of our purchases based on their
retail value) in 2012. Our vendor arrangements generally provide for payment for such merchandise in U.S. dollars.

We
have consistently managed to obtain sufficient quantities of core merchandise and believe that, if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we would generally
be able to obtain alternative sources without experiencing a substantial disruption of our business. However, such alternative sources could increase our merchandise costs or reduce the quality of our
merchandise, and an inability to obtain alternative sources could adversely affect our sales.

Distribution and Transportation

Our stores are currently supported by eleven distribution centers located strategically throughout our geographic footprint, including
a distribution center in Bessemer, Alabama which began shipping to stores in March 2012 and a leased distribution facility in Lebec, California which began shipping in April 2012. We currently have a
distribution center under construction in Pennsylvania which is expected to begin shipping in early 2014. We lease additional temporary warehouse space as necessary to support our distribution needs.
Over the past few years we have made significant investments in facilities, technological improvements and upgrades, and we continue to improve work processes, all of which increase our efficiency and
ability to support our merchandising and operations initiatives as well








as
our new store growth. We continually analyze and rebalance the network to ensure that it remains efficient and provides the service our stores require. See "—Properties" for additional
information pertaining to our distribution centers.

Most
of our merchandise flows through our distribution centers and is delivered to our stores by third-party trucking firms, utilizing our trailers. Our agreements with these trucking
firms are based on estimated costs of diesel fuel, with the difference in estimated and current market fuel costs passed through to us. The costs of diesel fuel are significantly influenced by
international, political and economic circumstances. Our average cost per gallon of diesel fuel increased slightly in 2012 and more significantly in 2011. If further price increases were to arise for
any reason, including fuel supply shortages or unusual price volatility, the resulting higher fuel prices could materially increase our transportation costs.

Seasonality

Our business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, our highest sales volume occurs in the fourth quarter, which includes the
Christmas selling season, and the lowest occurs in the first quarter. In addition, our quarterly results can be affected by the timing of certain holidays, the timing of new store openings and store
closings, the amount of sales contributed by new and existing stores, as well as financial transactions such as debt repurchases, common stock offerings and stock repurchases. We purchase substantial
amounts of inventory in the third quarter and incur higher shipping costs and higher payroll costs in anticipation of the increased sales activity during the fourth
quarter. In addition, we carry merchandise during our fourth quarter that we do not carry during the rest of the year, such as gift sets, holiday decorations, certain baking items, and a broader
assortment of toys and candy.

The
following table reflects the seasonality of net sales, gross profit, and net income by quarter for each of the quarters of our three most recent fiscal years. The fourth quarter of
the year ended February 3, 2012 was comprised of 14 weeks, and each of the other quarters reflected below were comprised of 13 weeks.

(in millions)1stQuarter2ndQuarter3rdQuarter4thQuarterYear Ended February 1, 2013Net sales$3,901.2$3,948.7$3,964.6$4,207.6Gross profit1,228.31,263.21,226.11,367.8Net income(a)213.4214.1207.7317.4Year Ended February 3, 2012Net sales$3,451.7$3,575.2$3,595.2$4,185.1Gross profit1,087.41,148.31,115.81,346.4Net income(b)157.0146.0171.2292.5Year Ended January 28, 2011Net sales$3,111.3$3,214.2$3,223.4$3,486.1Gross profit999.81,036.01,010.71,130.2Net income136.0141.2128.1222.5

(a)Includes
expenses, net of income taxes, of $17.7 million related to the redemption of long-term obligations in second quarter of 2012.(b)Includes
expenses, net of income taxes, of $35.4 million related to the redemption of long-term obligations in second quarter of 2011.








Our Competition

We operate in the basic discount consumer goods market, which is highly competitive with respect to price, store location, merchandise
quality, assortment and presentation, in-stock consistency, and customer service. We compete with discount stores and with many other retailers, including mass merchandise, grocery, drug,
convenience, variety and other specialty stores. These other retail companies operate stores in many of the areas where we operate, and many of them engage in extensive advertising and marketing
efforts. Our direct competitors include Family Dollar, Dollar Tree, Fred's, 99 Cents Only and various local, independent operators, as well as Walmart, Target, Walgreens, CVS, and Rite Aid, among
others. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do.

We
differentiate ourselves from other forms of retailing by offering consistently low prices in a convenient, small-store format. We believe that our prices are competitive due in part
to our low cost operating structure and the relatively limited assortment of products offered. Purchasing large volumes of merchandise within our focused assortment in each merchandise category allows
us to keep our average costs low, contributing to our ability to offer competitive everyday low prices to our customers. See "—Our Business Model" above for further discussion of our
competitive situation.

Our Employees

As of March 1, 2013, we employed approximately 90,500 full-time and part-time employees, including
divisional and regional managers, district managers, store managers, other store personnel and distribution center and administrative personnel. We have increasingly focused on recruiting, training,
motivating and retaining
employees, and we believe that the quality, performance and morale of our employees have increased as a result. We currently are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements.

Our Trademarks

We own marks that are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and are protected under applicable intellectual
property laws, including without limitation the trademarks Dollar General®, Dollar General Market®, Clover Valley®, DG®, Smart &
Simple®, trueliving®, Sweet Smiles®, Open Trails®, Bobbie Brooks® Comfort Baytm, and Holiday Style®, along with
variations and formatives of these trademarks as well as certain other trademarks. We attempt to obtain registration of our trademarks whenever practicable and to pursue vigorously any infringement of
those marks. Our trademark registrations have various expiration dates; however, assuming that the trademark registrations are properly renewed, they have a perpetual duration.

We
also hold licenses to use various trademarks owned by third parties, including a license to the Fisher Price brand for certain items of children's clothing through December 31,
2013, and an exclusive license to the Rexall brand through March 5, 2020.

Available Information

Our Web site address is www.dollargeneral.com. We file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual
reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, registration statements and other documents. These documents are available free of charge to investors on or through the Investor Information portion
of our Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC
at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as Dollar
General, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that web site is http://www.sec.gov.








