ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General

We are among the largest discount retailers in the United States by number of stores, with 12,575 stores located in 43 states as
of February 26, 2016, with the greatest concentration of stores in the southern, southwestern, midwestern and eastern United States. We offer a broad selection of merchandise, including
consumables, seasonal, home products and apparel. Our merchandise includes high quality national brands from leading manufacturers, as well as comparable quality private brand selections with prices
at substantial discounts to national brands. We offer our merchandise at everyday low prices through our convenient small-box locations.

Our History

J.L. Turner founded our Company in 1939 as J.L. Turner and Son, Wholesale. We were incorporated as a Kentucky corporation under the
name J.L. Turner & Son, Inc. in 1955, when we opened our first Dollar General store. We changed our name to Dollar General Corporation in 1968 and reincorporated in 1998 as a Tennessee
corporation. Our common stock was publicly traded from 1968 until July 2007, when we merged with an entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co. L.P., or KKR. In November 2009 our common stock again became publicly traded, and in December 2013 the entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with KKR sold
its remaining shares of our common stock.

Our Business Model

Our long history of profitable growth is founded on a commitment to a relatively simple business model: providing a broad base of
customers with their basic everyday and household needs, supplemented with a variety of general merchandise items, at everyday low prices in conveniently located, small-box stores. We continually
evaluate the needs and demands of our customers and modify our merchandise selections and pricing accordingly, while remaining focused on increasing profitability and returns for our shareholders.

Our
operating priorities are summarized as follows: 1) driving profitable sales growth, 2) capturing growth opportunities, 3) enhancing our position as a low-cost
operator, and 4) investing in our people as a competitive advantage. For more information on these operating priorities, see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations, under the heading "Executive Overview", included in Part II, Item 7 of this report.

In
fiscal year 2015, we achieved our 26thconsecutive year of same-store sales growth. This growth, which has taken place in a variety of economic conditions,
suggests that we have a less cyclical business model than most retailers and, we believe, is a result of our compelling value and convenience proposition.

Compelling Value and Convenience Proposition.Our ability to deliver highly competitive prices in convenient locations and our
easy "in and out"
shopping format create a compelling shopping experience that distinguishes us from other discount retailers as well as convenience, drug and grocery retailers. Our slogan "Save time. Save money. Every
day!" summarizes our appeal to customers. We believe our ability to effectively deliver both value and convenience allows us to succeed in small markets with limited shopping alternatives, as well as
to profitably coexist alongside larger retailers in








more
competitive markets. Our value and convenience proposition is evidenced by the following attributes of our business model:

•

Convenient Locations.Our stores are conveniently located
in a variety of rural, suburban and urban communities. We seek to locate our stores in close proximity to our customers, which drives customer loyalty and trip frequency and makes us an attractive
alternative to large discount and other large-box retail and grocery stores.

•

Time-Saving Shopping Experience.We also provide
customers with a highly convenient, easy to navigate shopping experience. Our small box stores are easy to get in and out of quickly. Our product offering includes most necessities, such as basic
packaged and refrigerated food and dairy products, cleaning supplies, paper products, health and beauty care items, greeting cards, basic apparel, housewares, hardware and automotive supplies, among
others. Our convenient hours and broad merchandise offering allow our customers to fulfill their routine shopping requirements and minimize their need to shop elsewhere.

•

Everyday Low Prices on Quality Merchandise.Our research
indicates that we offer a price advantage over most food and drug retailers and that our prices are highly competitive with even the largest discount retailers. Our ability to offer everyday low
prices on quality merchandise is supported by our low-cost operating structure and our strategy to maintain a limited number of items per merchandise category, which we believe helps us maintain
strong purchasing power. We offer quality nationally advertised brands at these everyday low prices in addition to offering our own comparable quality private brands at value prices.

Substantial Growth Opportunities.We believe we have substantial long-term growth potential in the U.S. We have identified
significant opportunities
to add new stores in both existing and new markets. In addition, we have opportunities to relocate or remodel locations within our existing store base to better serve our customers. Our attractive
store economics, including a relatively low initial investment and simple, low-cost operating model have allowed us to grow our store base to current levels and provide us significant opportunities to
continue our profitable store growth strategy.

Our Merchandise

We offer a focused assortment of everyday necessities, which drive frequent customer visits, and key items in a broad range of general
merchandise categories. Our product assortment provides the opportunity for our customers to address most of their basic shopping
needs with one trip. We sell high-quality nationally advertised brands from leading manufacturers. Additionally, our private brand consumables offer even greater value with options to purchase value
items and national brand equivalent products at substantial discounts to the national brand.

Consumables
is our largest merchandise category and has become a larger percentage of our total sales in recent years as indicated in the table below. Consumables include paper and
cleaning products (such as paper towels, bath tissue, paper dinnerware, trash and storage bags, laundry and other home cleaning supplies); packaged food (such as cereals, canned soups and vegetables,
condiments, spices, sugar and flour); perishables (such as milk, eggs, bread, frozen meals, beer and wine); snacks (such as candy, cookies, crackers, salty snacks and carbonated beverages); health and
beauty (such as over-the-counter medicines and personal care products, such as soap, body wash, shampoo, dental hygiene and foot care products); pet (such as pet supplies and pet food); and tobacco
products.

Seasonal
products include decorations, toys, batteries, small electronics, greeting cards, stationery, prepaid phones and accessories, gardening supplies, hardware, automotive and home
office supplies.

Home
products include kitchen supplies, cookware, small appliances, light bulbs, storage containers, frames, candles, craft supplies and kitchen, bed and bath soft goods.








Apparel
includes casual everyday apparel for infants, toddlers, girls, boys, women and men, as well as socks, underwear, disposable diapers, shoes and accessories.

The
percentage of net sales of each of our four categories of merchandise for the fiscal years indicated below was as follows:

201520142013Consumables75.9%75.7%75.2%Seasonal12.4%12.4%12.9%Home products6.3%6.4%6.4%Apparel5.4%5.5%5.5%

Our
seasonal and home products categories typically account for the highest gross profit margins, and the consumables category typically accounts for the lowest gross profit margin.

The Dollar General Store

The typical Dollar General store is operated by a store manager, one or more assistant store managers, and three or more sales
associates. Our stores generally feature a low-cost, no frills building with limited maintenance capital, low operating costs, and a focused merchandise offering within a broad range of categories,
allowing us to deliver low retail prices while generating strong cash flows and investment returns. Our stores average approximately 7,400 square feet of selling space and approximately 70% of our
stores are located in towns of 20,000 or fewer people. We generally have had good success in locating suitable store sites in the past, and we believe that there is ample opportunity for new store
growth in existing and new markets. In addition, we believe we have significant opportunities available for our relocation and remodel programs.

Our
store growth over the past three years is summarized in the following table:

YearStores atBeginningof YearStoresOpenedStoresClosedNetStoreIncreaseStores atEnd of Year201310,5066502462611,132201411,1327004365711,789201511,7897303669412,483

Our Customers

Our customers seek value and convenience. Depending on their financial situation and geographic proximity, customers' reliance on
Dollar General varies from fill-in shopping, to making periodic trips to stock up on household items, to making weekly or more frequent trips to meet most essential needs. We generally locate our
stores and plan our merchandise selections to best
serve the needs of our core customers, the low and fixed income households often underserved by other retailers, and we are focused on helping them make the most of their spending dollars. At the same
time, however, loyal Dollar General shoppers from a wide range of income brackets and life stages appreciate our quality merchandise as well as our attractive value and convenience proposition.

Our Suppliers

We purchase merchandise from a wide variety of suppliers and maintain direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand
merchandise. Despite our broad offering, we maintain only a limited number of items per category, giving us a pricing advantage in dealing with our suppliers. Our largest and second largest suppliers
each accounted for approximately 7% of our purchases in 2015.








Our
private brands come from a diversified supplier base. We directly imported approximately 6% of our purchases at cost in 2015.

We
have consistently managed to obtain sufficient quantities of core merchandise and believe that, if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we would generally
be able to obtain alternative sources without experiencing a substantial disruption of our business. However, such alternative sources could increase our merchandise costs or reduce the quality of our
merchandise, and an inability to obtain alternative sources could adversely affect our sales.

Distribution and Transportation

Our stores are currently supported by thirteen distribution centers located strategically throughout our geographic footprint. We
recently broke ground on our fourteenth distribution center in Wisconsin. We lease additional temporary warehouse space as necessary to support our distribution needs. We continually analyze and
rebalance the network to ensure that it remains efficient and provides the service our stores require. See "—Properties" for additional information pertaining to our distribution centers.

Most
of our merchandise flows through our distribution centers and is delivered to our stores by third-party trucking firms, utilizing our trailers. In addition, vendors or third-party
distributors ship certain food items and other merchandise directly to our stores.

Seasonality

Our business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, our highest sales volume occurs in the fourth quarter, which includes the
Christmas selling season, and the lowest occurs in the first quarter. In addition, our quarterly results can be affected by the timing of certain holidays, the timing of new store openings and store
closings, and the amount of sales contributed by new and existing stores. We typically purchase substantial amounts of inventory in the third quarter and incur higher shipping and payroll costs in
anticipation of increased sales activity during the fourth quarter. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Our Competition

We operate in the basic discount consumer goods market, which is highly competitive with respect to price, store location, merchandise
quality, assortment and presentation, in-stock consistency, and customer service. We compete with discount stores and with many other retailers, including mass merchandise, warehouse club, grocery,
drug, convenience, variety and other specialty stores. These other retail companies operate stores in many of the areas where we operate, and many of them engage in extensive advertising and marketing
efforts. Our direct competitors include Family Dollar, Dollar Tree, Fred's, 99 Cents Only and various local, independent operators, as well as Walmart, Target, Kroger, Aldi, Walgreens, CVS, and Rite
Aid, among others. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do.

We
differentiate ourselves from other forms of retailing by offering consistently low prices in a convenient, small-store format. We believe that our prices are competitive due in part
to our low-cost operating structure and the relatively limited assortment of products offered. Purchasing large volumes of merchandise within our focused assortment in each merchandise category allows
us to keep our average costs low, contributing to our ability to offer competitive everyday low prices to our customers. See "—Our Business Model" above for further discussion of our
competitive situation.








Our Employees

As of February 26, 2016, we employed approximately 113,400 full-time and part-time employees, including divisional and regional
managers, district managers, store managers, other store personnel and distribution center and administrative personnel. We have increasingly focused on recruiting, training, motivating and retaining
employees, and we believe that the quality, performance and morale of our employees have increased as a result. We currently are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements.

Our Trademarks

We own marks that are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and are protected under applicable intellectual
property laws, including without limitation the trademarks Dollar General®, Dollar General Market®, Clover Valley®, DG®, DG Deals®, Forever
Pals®, I*Magine®, OT Sport®, Smart & Simple®, trueliving®, Sweet Smiles®, Open Trails®, Bobbie
Brooks®, Comfort Bay®, Holiday Style®, Swiggles®, More Deals For Your Dollar. Every Day!®, The Fast Way To Save®, Save Time.
Save Money. Every Day!®, and Ever PetTMalong with variations and formatives of these trademarks as well as certain other trademarks. We attempt to obtain registration of our
trademarks whenever practicable and to pursue vigorously any infringement of those marks. Our trademark registrations have various expiration dates; however, assuming that the trademark registrations
are properly renewed, they have a perpetual duration.

We
also hold an exclusive license to the Rexall brand through March 5, 2020.

Available Information

Our Internet website address is www.dollargeneral.com. We file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC")
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders,
and, from time to time, registration statements and other documents. These documents are available free of charge to investors on or through the Investor Information section of our website as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains
an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as Dollar General, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that
website is http://www.sec.gov.








