ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General

We are the largest discount retailer in the United States by number of stores, with 9,961 stores located in 39 states as of
March 2, 2012, primarily in the southern, southwestern, midwestern and eastern United States. We offer a broad selection of merchandise, including consumables, seasonal, home products and
apparel. Our merchandise includes high quality national brands from leading manufacturers, as well as comparable quality private brand selections with prices at substantial discounts to national
brands. We offer our merchandise at everyday low prices (typically $10 or less) through our convenient small-box (approximately 7,200 square feet) locations.

Our History

J.L. Turner founded our Company in 1939 as J.L. Turner and Son, Wholesale. We were incorporated as a Kentucky corporation under the
name J.L. Turner & Son, Inc. in 1955, when we opened our first Dollar General store. We changed our name to Dollar General Corporation in 1968 and reincorporated in 1998 as a Tennessee
corporation. Our common stock was publicly traded from 1968 until July 2007, when we merged with an entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co. L.P., or KKR. In November 2009 our common stock again became publicly traded. Buck Holdings, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership controlled by KKR, continues
to beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock.

Our Business Model

Our long history of profitable growth is founded on a commitment to a relatively simple business model: providing a broad base of
customers with their basic everyday and household needs, supplemented with a variety of general merchandise items, at everyday low prices in conveniently located, small-box stores. We
continually evaluate the needs and demands of our customers and modify our merchandise selections and pricing accordingly, while remaining focused on increasing profitability for our shareholders.

Fiscal
year 2011 represented our 22ndconsecutive year of same-store sales growth. This growth, regardless of economic conditions, suggests that we have
a less cyclical model than most retailers and, we believe, is a result of our compelling value and convenience proposition.

Our
attractive store economics, including a relatively low initial investment and simple, low cost operating model, have allowed us to grow our store base to current levels, and provide
us significant opportunities to continue our profitable store growth strategy.

Compelling Value and Convenience Proposition.Our ability to deliver highly competitive prices on national brand and quality
private brand products
in convenient locations and our easy in and out shopping format create a compelling shopping experience that distinguishes us from other discount, convenience and drugstore retailers. Our slogan,
"Save time. Save money. Every day!" summarizes our appeal to customers. We believe our ability to effectively deliver both value and convenience allows us to succeed in small markets with limited
shopping alternatives, as well as to profitably coexist alongside larger retailers in more competitive markets. Our compelling value and convenience proposition is evidenced by the following
attributes of our business model:

•Convenient Locations.Our stores are conveniently located
in a variety of rural, suburban and urban communities, currently with approximately 70% serving communities with populations of less than 20,000. In more densely populated areas, our
small-box stores typically serve the closely surrounding neighborhoods. The majority of our customers live within three to five miles, or a








10-minute
drive, of our stores. Our close proximity to customers drives customer loyalty and trip frequency and makes us an attractive alternative to large discount and other
large-box retail and grocery stores which are often located farther away. Our low cost economic model enables us to serve many areas with fewer than 1,500 households.

•Time-Saving Shopping Experience.We also
provide customers with a highly convenient shopping experience. Our stores' smaller size allows us to locate parking near the front entrance. Our product offering includes most necessities, such as
basic packaged and refrigerated food and dairy products, cleaning supplies, paper products, and health and beauty care items, as well as greeting cards, party supplies, apparel, housewares, hardware
and automotive supplies, among others. Our typical store opens at 8:00 a.m. and closes at 9:00 p.m. or 10:00 p.m., seven days per week. Our convenient hours and broad merchandise
offering allow our customers to fulfill their routine shopping requirements and minimize their need to shop elsewhere.•Everyday Low Prices on Quality Merchandise.Our research
indicates that we offer a price advantage over most food and drug retailers and that our prices are highly competitive with even the largest discount retailers. Our ability to offer everyday low
prices on quality merchandise is supported by our low-cost operating structure and our strategy to maintain a limited number of stock keeping units ("SKUs") per category, which we believe
helps us maintain strong purchasing power. Most items are priced below $10, with approximately 25% at $1 or less. We offer quality nationally advertised brands at these everyday low prices in addition
to offering our own comparable quality private brands at value prices.

Attractive Store Economics.The traditional Dollar General store size, design and location requires minimal initial capital
investment and low
maintenance expenditures. Our typical locations involve a modest, no-frills building, which helps keep our rental and other fixed overhead costs relatively low. Our leased stores generally
deliver positive cash flow in their first year of operations, typically resulting in pay back of capital in less than two years. Our stringent market analysis, real estate site selection and new store
approval processes as well as our new store marketing programs help us optimize financial returns and minimize the risks of opening unprofitable stores.

Our
lean store staffing model and centralized management of utilities, maintenance and supplies procurement contribute to our relatively low operating costs and efficient store
operations. Recent additions and upgrades to technology in our stores, including high-speed data transmission, inventory control, workforce management and task management systems are
enabling us to manage our store operations even more effectively.

Substantial Growth Opportunities.We believe we have the long-term potential in the U.S. to more than double our existing store
base
while maintaining strong returns on capital. We have identified significant opportunities to add new stores in both existing and new markets. In addition, we have opportunities within our existing
store base to relocate or remodel to better serve our customers. See "Our Growth Strategy" for additional details.

Our Growth Strategy

We believe we have the right strategy and execution capabilities to capitalize on the considerable growth opportunities afforded by our
business model. We believe we continue to have significant opportunities to drive profitable growth through increasing same-store sales, expanding our operating profit rate and growing our
store base.

Increasing Same-Store Sales.We believe the combination of our necessity-driven product mix and our attractive value proposition,
including a well-balanced merchandising approach, provides a strong basis for increased sales. Our average sales per square foot increased to $213 in 2011 (including a $4 contribution from
the 53rdweek) from $201 in 2010 and $195 in 2009. We believe we will continue to








have
additional opportunities to increase our store productivity through improved in-stock positions, price optimization, continued improvements in space utilization, and additional
operating and merchandising initiatives, including further expansion of our frozen and refrigerated food offerings.

We
remodeled or relocated 575 stores in 2011, and we plan to relocate or remodel 550 stores in 2012. Remodels and relocations typically drive incremental same-store sales
growth. A relocation typically results in an improved, more visible and accessible location, and usually includes increased square footage. We believe we will continue to have opportunities for
additional remodels and relocations beyond 2012.

Expanding Operating Profit Rate.Another key component of our growth strategy is improving our operating profit rate through
enhanced gross profit
and expense reduction initiatives. Even though we faced challenges in 2011 resulting from ongoing pressures with regard to discretionary spending and significant increases in product costs, we were
able to increase our operating profit by 17%, equal to 30 basis points as a percent of sales, primarily due to our ongoing efforts to reduce selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent
of sales.

We
remain committed to an everyday low price ("EDLP") strategy that our customers can depend on. To strengthen our adherence to this strategy and still protect gross profit, we utilize
various pricing and merchandising options, including price optimization strategies, changes to our product selection, such as alternate national brands and the expansion of our private brands, and
modifications to our packaging and product size. In 2011, the cost of many basic commodities, including cotton, sugar, coffee, groundnuts and resin, as well as transportation fuel, increased, and many
of these increases were passed along to us by our vendors. These cost increases posed a challenge to our continued priority of improving our gross profit rate in 2011.

Our
private brand program complements our model of offering customers nationally branded consumables merchandise at everyday low prices. When compared to similar national brands, private
or proprietary brand items generally have higher gross profit rates. The addition of private brands also allows us to better control quality and improve our packaging and shelf presentation over less
recognizable "packer" labels. Over the past few years we have expanded our private brand initiative to our non-consumable offerings, dramatically improving the visual impact of many of our
non-consumables, including housewares, domestics, lawn and garden tools and summer toys.

In
addition, in 2010 and 2011, we increased our offering of items at the $1.00 price point, focusing first on food followed by health and beauty. Because we believe this program adds
incremental sales and gross profit, we plan to further this program in 2012, continuing to combine some of our $1.00 EDLP items with special purchases.

Improving
our inventory shrinkage has been and continues to be an important component of expanding our gross profit rate. To achieve this objective we have concentrated our shrink
reduction efforts on stores with the highest shrink rates. In addition, we have been successful in employing exception reporting tools and enhanced shrink optimization processes.

We
also continue to believe we have the potential to directly source a larger portion of our products internationally at significant savings to current costs. In 2011, we imported
approximately $780 million of goods, or 8% of total purchases, at cost.

We
continually look for ways to improve our cost structure and enhance efficiencies throughout the organization. For example, in 2011, we fully implemented a store workforce management
program, and made further progress on reducing costs through our energy management and centralized procurement systems.








Growing Our Store Base.Based on a detailed, market-by-market analysis, we believe we have the potential to at least double
our current number of stores through expansion in both existing and new markets. In 2011, we made our initial entrance into Connecticut, New Hampshire and Nevada (our first new states since 2006) and
in 2012 we plan to open approximately 50 stores in California. We have confidence in our real estate disciplines and in our ability to identify, open and operate successful new stores. As a result, we
believe that at least our present level of new store growth is sustainable for the foreseeable future.

Our Merchandise

We offer a focused assortment of everyday necessities, which drive frequent customer visits, and key items in a broad range of general
merchandise categories. Our product assortment provides the opportunity for our customers to address most of their basic shopping needs with one trip. We sell high quality national brands from leading
manufacturers such as Procter & Gamble, Kimberly Clark, Unilever, Kellogg's, General Mills, Nabisco, Coca-Cola and PepsiCo, which are typically found at higher retail prices
elsewhere. Additionally, our private brand consumables offer consumers even greater value with options to purchase value items and national brand equivalent products at substantial discounts to the
national brand.

Our
stores generally offer approximately 10,000 total SKUs per store; however, the number of SKUs in a given store can vary based upon the store's size, geographic location,
merchandising initiatives, seasonality, and other factors. Most of our products are priced at $10 or less, with approximately 25% at $1 or less. We separate our merchandise into four categories:
1) consumables; 2) seasonal; 3) home products; and 4) apparel.

Consumables
is our largest category and includes paper and cleaning products (such as paper towels, bath tissue, paper dinnerware, trash and storage bags, laundry and other home cleaning
supplies); food, including packaged food and perishables (such as cereals, canned soups and vegetables, sugar, flour, milk, eggs and bread); beverages and snacks (including candy, cookies, crackers,
salty snacks and carbonated beverages); health and beauty (including over-the-counter medicines and personal care products, such as soap, body wash, shampoo, dental hygiene and
foot care products); and pet (including pet supplies and pet food).

Seasonal
products include decorations, toys, batteries, small electronics, greeting cards, stationery, prepaid cell phones and accessories, gardening supplies, hardware, automotive and
home office supplies.

Home
products includes kitchen supplies, cookware, small appliances, light bulbs, storage containers, frames, candles, craft supplies and kitchen, bed and bath soft goods.

Apparel
includes casual everyday apparel for infants, toddlers, girls, boys, women and men, as well as socks, underwear, disposable diapers, shoes and accessories.

The
percentage of net sales of each of our four categories of merchandise for the fiscal years indicated below was as follows:

201120102009Consumables73.2%71.6%70.8%Seasonal13.8%14.5%14.5%Home products6.8%7.0%7.4%Apparel6.2%6.9%7.3%

Our
home products and seasonal categories typically account for the highest gross profit margins, and the consumables category typically accounts for the lowest gross profit margin.








The Dollar General Store

The average Dollar General store has approximately 7,200 square feet of selling space and is typically operated by a store manager, an
assistant store manager and three or more sales clerks. Approximately 60% of our stores are in freestanding buildings and 40% are in strip shopping centers. Most of our customers live within three to
five miles, or a 10 minute drive, of our stores. Our traditional store strategy features low initial capital expenditures, limited maintenance capital, low occupancy and operating costs, and a focused
merchandise offering within a broad range of categories, allowing us to deliver low retail prices while generating strong cash flows and investment returns. In 2011, the average cost of equipment and
fixtures in our traditional leased stores was approximately $180,000. Initial inventory, net of payables, increases the investment in a new store by approximately $75,000.

We
generally have had good success in locating suitable store sites in the past. Given the size of the communities that we target, we believe that there is ample opportunity for new
store growth in existing and new markets. In addition, the current real estate market has continued to provide opportunities for us to access higher quality sites at lower rates than in recent years.
Also, we believe we have significant opportunities available for our relocation and remodel programs. We spend approximately $80,000 for equipment and fixtures to remodel a traditional store and
approximately $160,000 to relocate a traditional store. We remodeled or relocated 575 stores in 2011, 504 in 2010 and 450 in 2009.

At
the end of 2011, our total store count included 69 Dollar General Market stores, which, in addition to the merchandise offering of a traditional Dollar General store, feature an
expanded food section, including fresh meat and produce and significantly more frozen and refrigerated foods. These stores, which average approximately 16,000 square feet of selling space, are an
alternative to the typical grocery store or supermarket, and generally contribute more to sales and operating income than our traditional stores. In 2011, we opened 12 new Dollar General Markets,
including seven as part of our initial entrance into Nevada. We plan to open approximately 40 new Dollar General Markets in 2012, including a significant percentage of our initial stores in
California. Our focus is on locating the Dollar General Market stores in areas that are generally underserved by large grocery chains. We continue to test and adjust the Dollar General Market concept
and how we build and open the stores, as the capital investment for these stores is significantly higher than our traditional stores. In addition to the Market stores, we are also testing a larger
format traditional store with approximately 10,000 square feet of selling space, including an expanded section of coolers and freezers. Like the Dollar General Market stores, these larger format
stores currently require significantly higher capital investment than our traditional stores and we are working to reduce that difference.

Our
recent store growth is summarized in the following table:

YearStores atBeginningof YearStoresOpenedStoresClosedNetStoreIncreaseStores atEnd of Year20098,362500344668,82820108,828600565449,37220119,372625605659,937

Our Customers

Our customers seek value and convenience. Depending on their financial situation and geographic proximity, customers' reliance on
Dollar General varies from using Dollar General for fill-in shopping, to making periodic trips to stock up on household items, to making weekly or more frequent trips to meet most
essential needs. We believe that our value and convenience proposition attracts customers from a wide range of income brackets and life stages. In the last year, we have continued to see








increases
in the annual number of shopping trips that our customers make to our stores as well as the amount spent during each trip.

To
attract new and retain existing customers, we continue to focus on product quality and selection, in-stock levels and pricing, targeted advertising, improved store
standards, convenient site locations, and a pleasant overall customer experience.

Our Suppliers

We purchase merchandise from a wide variety of suppliers and maintain direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand
merchandise, such as Procter & Gamble, Kimberly Clark, Unilever, Kellogg's, General Mills, Nabisco, Coca-Cola and PepsiCo. Despite our broad offering, we maintain only a limited
number of SKUs per category, giving us a pricing advantage in dealing with our suppliers. Approximately 8% and 7% of our purchases in 2011 were from our largest and second largest suppliers,
respectively. Our private brands come from a diversified supplier base. We directly imported approximately 8% of our purchases at cost (12% of our purchases based on their retail value) in 2011. Our
vendor arrangements generally provide for payment for such merchandise in U.S. dollars.

We
have consistently managed to obtain sufficient quantities of core merchandise and believe that, if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we would generally
be able to obtain alternative sources without experiencing a substantial disruption of our business. However, such
alternative sources could increase our merchandise costs or reduce the quality of our merchandise, and an inability to obtain alternative sources could adversely affect our sales.

Distribution, Transportation and Inventory Management

Our stores are currently supported by ten distribution centers located strategically throughout our geographic footprint, including a
new distribution center in Bessemer, Alabama which began shipping to stores on March 11, 2012. We lease additional temporary warehouse space as necessary to support our distribution needs. In
addition, we have leased a distribution facility in Lebec, California which we expect to be operational in April 2012. Over the past few years we have made significant investments in facilities,
technological improvements and upgrades, and we continue to improve work processes, all of which increase our efficiency and ability to support our merchandising and operations initiatives as well as
our new store growth. We continually analyze and rebalance the network to ensure that it remains efficient and provides the service our stores require. See "—Properties" for additional
information pertaining to our distribution centers.

Most
of our merchandise flows through our distributions centers and is delivered to our stores by third-party trucking firms, utilizing our trailers. Our agreements with these trucking
firms are based on estimated costs of diesel fuel, with the difference in estimated and current market fuel costs passed through to us. The costs of diesel fuel are significantly influenced by
international, political and economic circumstances, and were considerably higher throughout 2011 than in 2010. If such increased prices remain in effect, or if further price increases were to arise
for any reason, including fuel supply shortages or unusual price volatility, the resulting higher fuel prices could materially increase our transportation costs.

We
believe that there remains opportunity to improve our inventory turns. Initiatives in process include operational efforts to optimize presentation levels, improve in-stock
levels and decrease excess quantities shipped to our stores. We continue to focus on SKU optimization in an attempt to ensure that we can meet customers' demands for our most popular products as well
as ensure appropriate product assortment. We are also in the process of implementing an improved supply chain solution to assist in ordering, monitoring and tracking inventory from purchase order to
receipt to maintain efficient levels of inventory. We turned our inventory approximately 5.3 times over the most recent four quarters.








Seasonality

Our business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, our highest sales volume occurs in the fourth quarter, which includes the
Christmas selling season, and the lowest occurs in the first quarter. In addition, our quarterly results can be affected by the timing of certain holidays, the timing of new store openings and store
closings, the amount of sales contributed by new and existing stores, as well as financial transactions such as debt repurchases, common stock offerings and stock repurchases. We purchase substantial
amounts of inventory in the third quarter and incur higher shipping costs and higher payroll costs in anticipation of the increased sales activity during the fourth quarter. In addition, we carry
merchandise during our fourth quarter that we do not carry during the rest of the year, such as gift sets, holiday decorations, certain baking items, and a broader assortment of toys and candy.

The
following table reflects the seasonality of net sales, gross profit, and net income by quarter for each of the quarters of our three most recent fiscal years. The fourth quarter of
the year ended February 3, 2012 was comprised of 14 weeks, and each of the other quarters reflected below were comprised of 13 weeks.

(in millions)1stQuarter2ndQuarter3rdQuarter4thQuarterYear Ended February 3, 2012Net sales$3,451.7$3,575.2$3,595.2$4,185.1Gross profit1,087.41,148.31,115.81,346.4Net income(a)157.0146.0171.2292.5Year Ended January 28, 2011Net sales$3,111.3$3,214.2$3,223.4$3,486.1Gross profit999.81,036.01,010.71,130.2Net income136.0141.2128.1222.5Year Ended January 29, 2010Net sales$2,779.9$2,901.9$2,928.8$3,185.8Gross profit855.4906.0903.11,025.4Net income(b)83.093.675.687.2

(a)Includes
expenses, net of income taxes, of $35.4 million related to the redemption of long-term obligations in second quarter of 2011.(b)Includes
expenses, net of income taxes, of $82.9 million related to our initial public offering during the fourth quarter of 2009.

Our Competition

We operate in the basic discount consumer goods market, which is highly competitive with respect to price, store location, merchandise
quality, assortment and presentation, in-stock consistency, and customer service. We compete with discount stores and with many other retailers, including mass merchandise, grocery, drug,
convenience, variety and other specialty stores. These other retail companies operate stores in many of the areas where we operate, and many of them engage in extensive advertising and marketing
efforts. Our direct competitors include Family Dollar, Dollar Tree, Fred's, 99 Cents Only and various local, independent operators, as well as Walmart, Target, Walgreens, CVS, and Rite Aid, among
others. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do.

We
differentiate ourselves from other forms of retailing by offering consistently low prices in a convenient, small-store format. We believe that our prices are competitive due in part
to our low cost operating structure and the relatively limited assortment of products offered. Historically, we have








minimized
labor by offering fewer price points and a reliance on simple merchandise presentation. Purchasing large volumes of merchandise within our focused assortment in each merchandise category
allows us to keep our average costs low, contributing to our ability to offer competitive everyday low prices to our customers. See "—Our Business Model" above for further discussion of
our competitive situation.

Our Employees

As of March 2, 2012, we employed approximately 90,000 full-time and part-time employees, including
divisional and regional managers, district managers, store managers, other store personnel and distribution center and administrative personnel. We have increasingly focused on recruiting, training,
motivating and retaining employees, and we believe that the quality, performance and morale of our employees have increased as a result. We currently are not a party to any collective bargaining
agreements.

Our Trademarks

We own marks that are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and are protected under applicable intellectual
property laws, including without limitation the trademarks Dollar General®, Dollar General Market®, Clover Valley®, DG®, DG Guarantee®,
Smart & Simple®, trueliving®, Sweet Smiles®, Open Trails®, and the Dollar General price point designs, along with variations and formatives of
these trademarks as well as certain other trademarks. Effective as of February 1, 2012 we exercised an option to purchase the Bobbie Brooks® trademark. We expect to file assignment
documents in applicable trademark offices in the coming weeks. We attempt to obtain registration of our trademarks whenever practicable and to pursue vigorously any infringement of those marks. Our
trademark registrations have various expiration dates; however, assuming that the trademark registrations are properly renewed, they have a perpetual duration.

We
also hold licenses to use various trademarks owned by third parties, including a license to the Fisher Price brand for certain items of children's clothing through December 31,
2013, and an exclusive license to the Rexall brand through March 5, 2020.

Available Information

Our Web site address is www.dollargeneral.com. We file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual
reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, registration statements and other documents. These documents are available free of charge to investors on or through the Investor Information portion
of our Web site as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at
100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as Dollar General, that file electronically with the SEC. The
address of that Web site is http://www.sec.gov.








