ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General

We are the largest discount retailer in the United States by number of stores, with 11,879 stores located in 43 states as of
February 27, 2015, primarily in the southern, southwestern, midwestern and eastern United States. We offer a broad selection of merchandise, including consumables, seasonal, home products and
apparel. Our merchandise includes high quality national brands from leading manufacturers, as well as comparable quality private brand selections with prices at substantial discounts to national
brands. We offer our merchandise at everyday low prices (typically $10 or less) through our convenient small-box locations, with selling space averaging approximately 7,400 square feet.

Our History

J.L. Turner founded our Company in 1939 as J.L. Turner and Son, Wholesale. We were incorporated as a Kentucky corporation under the
name J.L. Turner & Son, Inc. in 1955, when we opened our first Dollar General store. We changed our name to Dollar General Corporation in 1968 and reincorporated in 1998 as a Tennessee
corporation. Our common stock was publicly traded from 1968 until July 2007, when we merged with an entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co. L.P., or KKR. In November 2009 our common stock again became publicly traded, and in December 2013 the entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with KKR sold
its remaining shares of our common stock.

Our Business Model

Our long history of profitable growth is founded on a commitment to a relatively simple business model: providing a broad base of
customers with their basic everyday and household needs, supplemented with a variety of general merchandise items, at everyday low prices in conveniently located, small-box stores. We continually
evaluate the needs and demands of our customers and modify our merchandise selections and pricing accordingly, while remaining focused on increasing profitability and returns for our shareholders.

In
fiscal year 2014, we achieved our 25thconsecutive year of same-store sales growth. This growth, regardless of economic conditions, suggests that we have a less
cyclical business model than most retailers and, we believe, is a result of our compelling value and convenience proposition.

Compelling Value and Convenience Proposition.Our ability to deliver highly competitive prices on national brand and quality
private brand products
in convenient locations and our easy "in and out" shopping format create a compelling shopping experience that distinguishes us from other discount retailers as well as convenience, drug and grocery
retailers. Our slogan "Save time. Save money. Every day!" summarizes our appeal to customers. We believe our ability to effectively deliver both value and convenience allows us to succeed in small
markets with limited shopping alternatives, as well as to profitably coexist alongside larger retailers in more competitive markets. Our value and convenience proposition is evidenced by the following
attributes of our business model:

•Convenient Locations.Our stores are conveniently located
in a variety of rural, suburban and urban communities, currently with approximately 70% serving communities with populations of fewer than 20,000. In more densely populated areas, our small-box stores
typically serve the closely surrounding neighborhoods. The majority of our customers live within three to five miles, or a 10-minute drive, of our stores. Our close proximity to customers drives
customer loyalty and trip frequency and makes us an attractive alternative to large discount and other large-box retail








and
grocery stores which are often located farther away. Our low-cost economic model enables us to serve many areas with fewer than 1,500 households.

•

Time-Saving Shopping Experience.We also provide
customers with a highly convenient shopping experience. Our stores' smaller size allows us to locate parking near the front entrance. Our product offering includes most necessities, such as basic
packaged and refrigerated food and dairy products, cleaning supplies, paper products, health and beauty care items, greeting cards, basic apparel, housewares, hardware and automotive supplies, among
others. Our convenient hours and broad merchandise offering allow our customers to fulfill their routine shopping requirements and minimize their need to shop elsewhere.

•

Everyday Low Prices on Quality Merchandise.Our research
indicates that we offer a price advantage over most food and drug retailers and that our prices are highly competitive with even the largest discount retailers. As such, we believe our emphasis on
affordability continues to resonate with our customers, propelling growth in sales, unit share, and dollar share as indicated in syndicated market share gains. Our ability to offer everyday low prices
on quality merchandise is supported by our low-cost operating structure and our strategy to maintain a limited number of stock keeping units ("SKUs") per category, which we believe helps us maintain
strong purchasing power. Most items are priced at $10 or less, with approximately 25% at $1 or less. We offer quality nationally advertised brands at these everyday low prices in addition to offering
our own comparable quality private brands at value prices.

Substantial Growth Opportunities.We believe we have substantial long-term growth potential in the U.S. We have identified
significant opportunities
to add new stores in both existing and new markets. In addition, we have opportunities to relocate or remodel locations within our existing store base to better serve our customers.

Our
attractive store economics, including a relatively low initial investment and simple, low cost operating model have allowed us to grow our store base to current levels and provide us
significant opportunities to continue our profitable store growth strategy.

Our Operating Priorities

We believe we continue to have significant opportunities to drive profitable growth by continuing to expand upon our simple business
model, which is largely focused on serving the needs of low and fixed income consumers, segments of the U.S. population that have continued to grow over the past several years. We believe our four key
operating priorities are critical to the long-term growth and profitability of our company. These priorities are 1) drive productive sales growth; 2) enhance our gross profit rate;
3) leverage process improvements and information technology to reduce costs; and 4) strengthen and expand Dollar General's culture of serving others.

Drive Productive Sales Growth.We believe our customer-driven merchandise mix and attractive value proposition, combined with
the impact of our
remodeled and relocated stores provide a strong basis for increased same-store sales. On a comparable 52-week basis, our same-store sales increased 2.8% in 2014, 3.3% in 2013 and 4.7% in 2012. Our
average net sales per square foot, based on total stores, increased to $223 in 2014 from $220 in 2013 and $216 in 2012.

In
2014 we continued to innovate in our ongoing pursuit to maximize the sales productivity of our stores, experiencing continued success of our 2013 introduction of tobacco products with
positive comparable same-store sales after the anniversary. Among other initiatives, we further expanded our perishables offerings to meet the needs of our customer and renewed our focus on $1 to $5
items, with more than 75% of our SKUs at 2014 year-end priced at $5 or less. Selling tobacco products and perishables drives more frequent shopping trips by our existing customers and attracts
new customers by making our stores more relevant to a broader customer base. We believe we have opportunities to








increase
our store productivity in 2015 through continued improvements in store space utilization, pricing and markdown optimization and additional merchandising initiatives, such as furthering the
successful launch of our DG Digital Coupons program, which allows our customers to access digital coupons via the internet, smartphones and similar devices.

Our
new store expansion strategy also is a critical element of our priority to drive productive sales growth. We have confidence in our real estate disciplines and in our ability to
identify, open and operate successful new stores. In 2014, we opened 700 new stores and increased our selling square
footage by over 6%. We invest significant time and energy into analyzing new store opportunities. Our site selection technology affirms our confidence in our ability to accelerate the expansion of our
store base in 2016. In 2015, we plan to open 730 new stores and increase our square footage by 6% as we continue to expand in our core markets as well as newer states. We also plan to continue to
remodel stores to update our appearance and relocate stores to increase square footage, where needed, improve visibility and accessibility or to obtain more attractive lease terms.

Enhance Our Gross Profit Rate.Another key component of our growth strategy is enhancing our gross profit rate.

We
remain committed to an everyday low price ("EDLP") strategy that our customers can depend on. To strengthen our adherence to this strategy and still maximize gross profit, we utilize
various pricing and merchandising options, including limited zone pricing, markdown optimization strategies and changes to our product selection, such as alternate national brands and private brands,
which generally have higher gross profit rates. A successful first full year of offering tobacco products and our continued expansion of perishable food items contributed significantly to increases in
sales and gross profit dollars during 2014, although, as expected, at a lower gross profit rate as a percentage of sales. Importantly, we believe these categories are instrumental to attaining our
goals of driving more frequent shopping trips, higher average ticket, and attracting new customers. We believe our initiatives to improve inventory shrinkage are having an impact, with our inventory
shrinkage rate as a percent to sales leveling off in 2014 compared to 2013. In addition, we maintain an ongoing focus on reducing transportation and distribution costs as well as efforts to minimize
inventory damages.

Over
the long term, we will continue our efforts to reduce product costs through shrink reduction, further expansion of our private brands, foreign sourcing, the use of online
procurement auctions and incremental distribution and transportation efficiencies. We also plan to continue to refine our product selection to meet our customers' needs in our home, apparel and
seasonal categories, which generally have higher gross profit rates than consumables.

Leverage Process Improvements and Information Technology to Reduce Costs.As part of our ongoing efforts to improve our cost
structure and enhance
efficiencies throughout the organization, in 2014 we made further progress in simplifying our store processes. This progress contributed to a reduction in store labor as a percentage of sales. In
addition, we realized cost savings from our centralized procurement initiative and other expense reduction efforts. In 2015, we expect to achieve further savings from our mining for cost reduction
initiatives and will remain focused on controlling those expenses that are within our control. Factors primarily related to our cash incentive compensation plan caused certain expenses in 2014 to be
higher than in 2013, as explained in further detail in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of this report.

Strengthen and Expand Our Culture of Serving Others.The mission of "Serving Others" has been key to the culture of Dollar
General for many years and
we recognize the importance of this mission to our long-term success. For customers this means helping them "Save time. Save money. Every day!" by providing clean, well-stocked stores with quality
products at low prices. For employees, this means creating an environment that attracts and retains key employees throughout the organization. For the








public,
this means giving back to our store communities through our charitable and other efforts. For shareholders, this means meeting their expectations of an efficiently and profitably run
organization that operates with compassion and integrity.

Our Merchandise

We offer a focused assortment of everyday necessities, which drive frequent customer visits, and key items in a broad range of general
merchandise categories. Our product assortment provides the opportunity for our customers to address most of their basic shopping needs with one trip. We sell high-quality national brands from leading
manufacturers such as Procter & Gamble, PepsiCo, Coca-Cola, Nestle, General Mills, Unilever, Kimberly Clark, Kellogg's and Nabisco, which are typically found at higher retail prices elsewhere.
Additionally, our private brand consumables offer even greater value with options to purchase value items and national brand equivalent products at substantial discounts to the national brand.

Our
stores generally offer approximately 11,000 total SKUs per store; however, the number of SKUs in a given store can vary based upon the store's size, geographic location,
merchandising initiatives, seasonality, and other factors. Most of our products are priced at $10 or less, with approximately 25% at $1 or less and over 75% at $5 or less. We separate our merchandise
into four categories: 1) consumables; 2) seasonal; 3) home products; and 4) apparel.

Consumables
is our largest category and includes paper and cleaning products (such as paper towels, bath tissue, paper dinnerware, trash and storage bags, laundry and other home cleaning
supplies); packaged food (such as cereals, canned soups and vegetables, condiments, spices, sugar and flour); perishables (such as milk, eggs, bread, frozen meals, beer and wine); snacks (including
candy, cookies, crackers, salty snacks and carbonated beverages); health and beauty (including over-the-counter
medicines and personal care products, such as soap, body wash, shampoo, dental hygiene and foot care products); pet (including pet supplies and pet food); and tobacco products.

Seasonal
products include decorations, toys, batteries, small electronics, greeting cards, stationery, prepaid phones and accessories, gardening supplies, hardware, automotive and home
office supplies.

Home
products includes kitchen supplies, cookware, small appliances, light bulbs, storage containers, frames, candles, craft supplies and kitchen, bed and bath soft goods.

Apparel
includes casual everyday apparel for infants, toddlers, girls, boys, women and men, as well as socks, underwear, disposable diapers, shoes and accessories.

The
percentage of net sales of each of our four categories of merchandise for the fiscal years indicated below was as follows:

201420132012Consumables75.7%75.2%73.9%Seasonal12.4%12.9%13.6%Home products6.4%6.4%6.6%Apparel5.5%5.5%5.9%

Our
seasonal and home products categories typically account for the highest gross profit margins, and the consumables category typically accounts for the lowest gross profit margin.

The Dollar General Store

The typical Dollar General store has, on average, approximately 7,400 square feet of selling space and is typically operated by a store
manager, one or more assistant store managers, and three or more sales associates. Approximately 68% of our stores are in freestanding buildings and 32% are in strip








shopping
centers. Most of our customers live within three to five miles, or a 10 minute drive, of our stores.

Our
typical store features a low cost, no frills building with limited maintenance capital, low operating costs, and a focused merchandise offering within a broad range of categories,
allowing us to deliver low retail prices while generating strong cash flows and investment returns. Our initial capital investment in new stores and relocations varies depending on the lease structure
or ownership as well as the size and location of the store and the number of coolers appropriate for the location.

We
generally have had good success in locating suitable store sites in the past, and we believe that there is ample opportunity for new store growth in existing and new markets. In
addition, we believe we have significant opportunities available for our relocation and remodel programs.

Our
store growth over the past three years is summarized in the following table:

YearStores atBeginningof YearStoresOpenedStoresClosedNetStoreIncreaseStores atEnd of Year20129,9376255656910,506201310,5066502462611,132201411,1327004365711,789

Our Customers

Our customers seek value and convenience. Depending on their financial situation and geographic proximity, customers' reliance on
Dollar General varies from using Dollar General for fill-in shopping, to making periodic trips to stock up on household items, to making weekly or more frequent trips to meet most essential needs. We
generally locate our stores and plan our merchandise selections to best serve the needs of our core customers, the low and fixed income households often underserved by other retailers, and we are
focused on helping them make the most of their spending dollars. At the same time, however, loyal Dollar General shoppers from a wide range of income brackets and life stages appreciate our quality
merchandise as well as our attractive value and convenience proposition.

To
attract new and retain existing customers, we continue to focus on product quality, product selection, in-stock levels, pricing, targeted advertising, store standards, convenient site
locations, and a pleasant overall customer experience.

Our Suppliers

We purchase merchandise from a wide variety of suppliers and maintain direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand
merchandise, such as Procter & Gamble, PepsiCo, Coca-Cola, Nestle, General Mills, Unilever, Kimberly Clark, Kellogg's and Nabisco. Despite our broad offering, we maintain only a limited number
of SKUs per category, giving us a pricing advantage in dealing with our suppliers. Our largest and second largest suppliers each accounted for approximately 7% of our purchases in 2014. Our private
brands come from a diversified supplier base. We directly imported approximately $770 million or 6% of our purchases at cost (9% of our purchases based on their retail value) in 2014. Our
vendor arrangements generally provide for payment for such merchandise in U.S. dollars.

We
have consistently managed to obtain sufficient quantities of core merchandise and believe that, if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we would generally
be able to obtain alternative sources without experiencing a substantial disruption of our business. However, such alternative sources could increase our merchandise costs or reduce the quality of our
merchandise, and an inability to obtain alternative sources could adversely affect our sales.








Distribution and Transportation

Our stores are currently supported by twelve distribution centers located strategically throughout our geographic footprint. We have
also broken ground on our 13thdistribution center in San Antonio, Texas which we expect to be operational by the end of 2015. We lease additional temporary warehouse space as
necessary to support our distribution needs. Over the past few years we have made significant investments in facilities, technological improvements and upgrades, and we continue to improve work
processes, all of which increase our efficiency and ability to support our merchandising and operations initiatives as well as our new store growth. We continually analyze and rebalance the network to
ensure that it remains efficient and provides the service our stores require. See "—Properties" for additional information pertaining to our distribution centers.

Most
of our merchandise flows through our distribution centers and is delivered to our stores by third-party trucking firms, utilizing our trailers. During 2014, the entire trucking
industry experienced driver capacity issues and these shortages affected our transportation costs. Further, our agreements with trucking firms are based on estimated costs of diesel fuel, with the
difference in estimated and current market fuel costs passed through to us. In late 2014, we began to see a decline in global oil prices which had a corresponding effect on the price of diesel fuel.
The costs of diesel fuel are significantly influenced by international, political and economic circumstances. If fuel price increases were to occur for any reason, including fuel supply shortages or
unusual price volatility, the resulting higher fuel prices could materially increase our transportation costs.

Seasonality

Our business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, our highest sales volume occurs in the fourth quarter, which includes the
Christmas selling season, and the lowest occurs in the first quarter. In addition, our quarterly results can be affected by the timing of certain holidays, the timing of new store openings and store
closings, the amount of sales contributed by new and existing stores, as well as financial transactions such as stock repurchases. We typically purchase substantial amounts of inventory in the third
quarter and incur higher shipping and payroll costs in anticipation of increased sales activity during the fourth quarter. In addition, we carry merchandise during our fourth quarter that we do not
carry during the rest of the year, such as gift sets, holiday decorations, certain baking items, and a broader assortment of toys and candy.








The
following table reflects the seasonality of net sales, gross profit, and net income by quarter for each of the quarters of our three most recent fiscal years. Each of the quarters
reflected below were comprised of 13 weeks.

(in millions)1stQuarter2ndQuarter3rdQuarter4thQuarterYear Ended January 30, 2015Net sales$4,522.1$4,724.0$4,724.4$4,939.1Gross profit1,357.71,455.61,423.71,565.4Net income(a)222.4251.3236.3355.4Year Ended January 31, 2014Net sales$4,233.7$4,394.7$4,381.8$4,493.9Gross profit1,295.11,377.31,328.51,434.8Net income(b)220.1245.5237.4322.2Year Ended February 1, 2013Net sales$3,901.2$3,948.7$3,964.6$4,207.6Gross profit1,228.31,263.21,226.11,367.8Net income(c)213.4214.1207.7317.4

(a)Includes
expenses, net of income taxes, of $7.4 million and $1.3 million, respectively, related to an attempted business acquisition in the
third and fourth quarters of 2014.(b)Includes
expenses, net of income taxes, of $11.5 million related to the termination of credit facilities in the first quarter of 2013.(c)Includes
expenses, net of income taxes, of $17.7 million related to the redemption of long-term obligations in the second quarter of 2012.

Our Competition

We operate in the basic discount consumer goods market, which is highly competitive with respect to price, store location, merchandise
quality, assortment and presentation, in-stock consistency, and customer service. We compete with discount stores and with many other retailers, including mass merchandise, warehouse club, grocery,
drug, convenience, variety and other specialty stores. These other retail companies operate stores in many of the areas where we operate, and many of them engage in extensive advertising and marketing
efforts. Our direct competitors include Family Dollar, Dollar Tree, Fred's, 99 Cents Only and various local, independent operators, as well as Walmart, Target, Kroger, Aldi, Walgreens, CVS, and Rite
Aid, among others. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do.

We
differentiate ourselves from other forms of retailing by offering consistently low prices in a convenient, small-store format. We believe that our prices are competitive due in part
to our low cost operating structure and the relatively limited assortment of products offered. Purchasing large volumes of merchandise within our focused assortment in each merchandise category allows
us to keep our average costs low, contributing to our ability to offer competitive everyday low prices to our customers. See "—Our Business Model" above for further discussion of our
competitive situation.

Our Employees

As of February 27, 2015, we employed approximately 105,500 full-time and part-time employees, including divisional and regional
managers, district managers, store managers,
other store personnel and distribution center and administrative personnel. We have increasingly focused on recruiting, training, motivating and retaining employees, and we believe that the quality,
performance and morale








of
our employees have increased as a result. We currently are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements.

Our Trademarks

We own marks that are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and are protected under applicable intellectual
property laws, including without limitation the trademarks Dollar General®, Dollar General Market®, Clover Valley®, DG®, DG Deals®, Forever
Pals®, I*Magine®, OT Sport®, Smart & Simple®, trueliving®, Sweet Smiles®, Open Trails®, Bobbie
Brooks®, Comfort Bay®, Holiday Style®, and Ever PetTMalong with variations and formatives of these trademarks as well as certain other trademarks. We
attempt to obtain registration of our trademarks whenever practicable and to pursue vigorously any infringement of those marks. Our trademark registrations have various expiration dates; however,
assuming that the trademark registrations are properly renewed, they have a perpetual duration.

We
also hold an exclusive license to the Rexall brand through March 5, 2020.

Available Information

Our Internet website address is www.dollargeneral.com. We file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC")
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders,
and, from time to time, registration statements and
other documents. These documents are available free of charge to investors on or through the Investor Information section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file
them with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC
20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and
information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as Dollar General, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov.








