ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

General

We are the largest discount retailer in the United States by number of stores, with 8,877 stores located in 35 states as of
February 26, 2010, primarily in the southern, southwestern, midwestern and eastern United States. We offer a broad selection of merchandise, including consumables, seasonal, home products and
apparel. Our merchandise includes high quality national brands from leading manufacturers, as well as comparable quality private brand selections with prices at substantial discounts to national
brands. We offer our merchandise at everyday low prices (typically $10 or less) through our convenient small-box (approximately 7,100 square feet) locations.

Our History

J.L. Turner founded our Company in 1939 as J.L. Turner and Son, Wholesale. We were incorporated as a Kentucky corporation under the
name J.L. Turner & Son, Inc. in 1955, when we opened our first Dollar General store. We changed our name to Dollar General Corporation in 1968 and reincorporated in 1998 as a Tennessee
corporation. Our common stock was publicly traded from 1968 until July 2007, when we merged with an entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co., L.P., or KKR. On November 13, 2009 our common stock again became publicly traded upon our completion of an initial public offering of 39,215,000 shares of
our common stock, including 22,700,000 newly issued shares. We are a subsidiary of Buck Holdings, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership controlled by KKR, which beneficially owns over 85% of our
outstanding common stock.

Our Business Model

Our long history of profitable growth is founded on a commitment to a relatively simple business model: providing a broad base of
customers with their basic everyday and household needs, supplemented with a variety of general merchandise items, at everyday low prices in conveniently located, small-box stores.

Fiscal
year 2009 represented our 20th consecutive year of same-store sales growth. This growth, regardless of economic conditions, suggests that we have a less
cyclical model than most retailers and, we believe, is a result of our compelling value and convenience proposition. Both customer traffic and average transaction amount have increased during 2008 and
2009 despite a very difficult economic environment, and our research indicates that in excess of 95% of new and existing customers plan to continue shopping with us after the economy recovers.

Our
attractive store economics, including a relatively low initial investment and simple, low cost operating model, have allowed us to grow our store base to over 8,800 stores in 35
states, and provides us significant opportunities to continue our strategy of profitable store growth.

Compelling Value and Convenience Proposition.Our ability to deliver highly competitive prices on national brand and quality
private brand products
in convenient locations and our easy in and out shopping format provide a compelling shopping experience and distinguish us from other discount, convenience and drugstore retailers. Our slogan, "Save
time. Save money. Every day!" summarizes our appeal to customers. We believe our ability to effectively deliver both value and convenience allows us to succeed in small markets with limited shopping
alternatives, as well as to profitably coexist alongside










larger
retailers in more competitive markets. Our compelling value and convenience proposition is evidenced by the following attributes of our business model:

•

Convenient Locations.Our stores are conveniently located
in a variety of rural, suburban and urban communities, currently with more than 60% serving communities with populations of less than 20,000. In more densely populated areas, our small-box
stores typically serve the closely surrounding neighborhoods. The majority of our customers live within three to five miles, or a 10-minute drive, of our stores. Our close proximity to
customers drives customer loyalty and trip frequency and makes us an attractive alternative to large discount and other large-box retail and grocery stores which are often located farther
away. Our low cost economic model enables us to serve many areas with fewer than 2,000 households.

•

Time-Saving Shopping Experience.We also
provide customers with a highly convenient shopping experience. Our stores' smaller size allows us to locate parking near the front entrance and offers quick store navigation. Significant work to
upgrade our in-store shopping experience and improve shopping efficiency over the past two years include improved signage and product adjacencies, better organized and stocked shelves,
efforts to unclutter aisles and emphasizing the use of shopping carts. We attempt to adjust our store operating hours to meet the needs of our customers. Our product offering includes most
necessities, such as basic packaged and refrigerated food and dairy products, cleaning supplies, paper products, and health and beauty care items, as well as greeting cards, party supplies, apparel,
housewares, hardware and automotive supplies, among others. This broad offering allows our customers to fulfill their routine shopping needs and minimizes their need to shop elsewhere.

•

Everyday Low Prices on Quality Merchandise.Our research
indicates that we offer a price advantage over most food and drug retailers and that our prices are highly competitive with even the largest discount retailers. Our ability to offer everyday low
prices on quality merchandise is supported by our low-cost operating structure and our strategy to maintain a limited number of stock keeping units ("SKUs") per category, which we believe
helps us maintain strong purchasing power. In Dollar General stores, most items are priced below $10, with approximately 25% at $1 or less. We offer quality national brands at these everyday low
prices in addition to offering our own comparable quality private brands at value prices.

Attractive Store Economics.The traditional Dollar General store size, design and location requires minimal initial investment
and low maintenance
capital expenditures. Our typical locations involve a modest, no-frills building design, which helps keep our rental and other fixed overhead costs relatively low. When coupled with our
new stores' ability to generally deliver positive cash flow in the first year, this low capital expenditure requirement typically results in pay back of capital in less than two years. Moreover, the
financial performance of our recently-opened stores appears to be outpacing many of our existing stores, which we believe is a result of significant enhancements in recent years to our market
analysis, real estate site selection, new store approval processes and new store marketing program.

Our
lean store staffing model contributes to our relatively low operating costs and efficient store operations.

Substantial Growth Opportunities.We believe we have substantial growth opportunities through both improved profitability of
existing stores and new
store openings. We are pursuing a number of initiatives to drive same-store sales growth, increase gross margins and reduce operating costs, which should continue to improve the
profitability of our existing store base. In addition, we have identified significant opportunities to add new stores in both existing and new markets. We believe we have the long-term
potential in the U.S. to more than double our existing store base while maintaining or improving our return on capital. See "Our Growth Strategy" for additional details.








Experienced Management Team.Our experienced senior management team has an average of 25 years of retail experience. Eight
senior executives
(Senior Vice President or higher) with significant retail experience, in addition to numerous executives at the Vice President level, have joined the Dollar General management team since our 2007
merger. These executives are primarily in merchandising, distribution and transportation functions, as well as key support roles including store development, human resources, finance and information
technology. This expanded team, including veteran Dollar General leaders, has demonstrated strong leadership capabilities and has made significant progress in developing and implementing world-class
retailing processes at Dollar General.

Our Growth Strategy

We believe we have the right strategy and execution capabilities to capitalize on the considerable growth opportunities afforded by our
business model. We derive our growth from three distinct sources, including increasing store sales, expanding operating profit rates and growing our store base.

Increasing Sales.We believe the combination of our necessity-driven product mix and our attractive
value proposition, including a well-balanced merchandising approach, provide a strong basis for increased sales. Our average sales per square foot increased to $195 in 2009 from $180 in
2008 and $165 in 2007. We believe we will continue to have additional opportunities to increase our store productivity through continued improvements in space utilization, better in-stock
positions and additional operating and merchandising initiatives, including:

•

New products and categories.We have redefined our
product line review processes significantly over the past two years, aiding our efforts to identify areas for new product expansion and to more quickly identify and eliminate underperforming items,
resulting in substantial sales increases.

•

Improved space utilization.We intend to continue to
expand product offerings and increase sales per square foot through improved space utilization, including increased shelf height, efficient utilization of floor and shelf space and improved product
adjacencies.

•

Improved execution in home, apparel and seasonal.Most of
our recent merchandising focus and changes have centered on consumables which have demonstrated strong sales growth as a result. Our current merchandising management team has significant experience in
basic consumer trends, merchandise presentation, pricing and managing end-of-season sell-through and has begun to intensify our focus on the apparel, home and
seasonal categories.

•

Improving store standards and operating hours.We are
continuing to define and improve our store standards and to adjust our store hours to better enhance our customers' experience. We believe that these improvements will continue to increase customer
traffic and average transaction amount.

•

Expanding our loyal customer base.Our research indicates
that over 85% of our customers have shopped at Dollar General for over two years, indicating that we have a highly loyal customer base. In addition, our most recent surveys indicate that our retention
rate of new customers has increased significantly over the past year, with approximately 94% of these customers indicating that they plan to continue shopping in our stores with either the same or
increased frequency. We believe that our merchandising and operating initiatives will result in increased traffic and sales and will continue to drive growth in our customer base.

•

Remodels and Relocations.We believe we have significant
opportunities available for our relocation and remodel programs, which will further drive sales growth.

Expanding Operating Profit Rate.Another key component of our growth strategy is improving our operating profit rate through
enhanced gross profit
and expense reduction initiatives. Our financial










results
during 2008 and 2009 reflect the favorable outcome of many of these initiatives, and we believe that we can build on our recent strong financial results by continuing to enhance these
initiatives which include:

•

Merchandising.We continue to improve the overall
profitability of our merchandising decisions. Our category management processes have resulted in improved product selection and pricing decisions, contributing to our improved gross profit margins. We
plan to expand our category management processes, with the intent of positively impacting our overall sales and operating profit rates.

•

Sourcing.In 2009, we imported approximately
$629 million of goods, or 8% of total purchases at cost. We believe we have the potential to directly source a larger portion of our products at significant savings to current costs. We are
currently increasing our direct foreign sourcing efforts, which we believe offer significant opportunity for gross profit enhancement in the future.

•

Private brand.Improving the consistency, quality,
appearance and breadth of our private brand offerings has yielded increased penetration over the past two years, and we intend to continue to drive our private brand penetration going forward.
Generally, private brand items have higher gross profit margins than similar national brand items. Our private brand program complements our model of offering customers nationally branded merchandise
at everyday low prices. Since 2007, we have added approximately 700 net new private brand items, predominantly in consumables, increasing our total number of such items to approximately 1,300 SKUs. As
a percentage of consumables sales, we increased private brand penetration from approximately 17% in 2007 to approximately 21% in 2009. We expect to expand on these efforts in the future in addition to
greatly increasing the role of private brands in our non-consumable offerings.

•

Inventory shrink rate reduction.The reduction in shrink
rate since 2007 has played a key role in increasing our gross profit margin. The reduction is the result of the focus and relentless efforts of our field management team and the introduction of
improved indicator metrics at the stores, in conjunction with improved hiring and training practices, and lower store manager turnover. We continue to improve and automate our shrink indicator tools,
and we believe we have opportunity for further shrink improvement.

•

Other cost reduction efforts.We continually look for
ways to improve our cost structure and enhance efficiencies throughout the organization. Significant current cost reduction efforts include implementing additional safety measures to further reduce
workers' compensation and general liability insurance costs, identifying additional efficiencies in distribution and transportation, labor productivity initiatives, continuing our store rent reduction
work, implementing more energy management tools and programs, expanding our recycling efforts and improving employee retention.

Growing Our Store Base.Based on a detailed, market-by-market analysis, we believe we have significant potential to increase
our number of stores in existing and new markets. Our recent market analysis suggests there are as many as 12,000 opportunities, the majority of which are located in the 35 states where we currently
operate. Also included are significant opportunities to open stores in new markets, most notably in states on the Pacific coast and in certain areas of the Northeast. Based on the initial successes of
our 2008 and 2009 new store openings, we have confidence in our real estate disciplines and in our ability to identify, open and operate successful new stores. As a result, we believe that at least
our present level of new store growth is sustainable for the foreseeable future. In addition, we also believe that in the current real estate market environment there may be opportunities to negotiate
lower rent and construction costs and to improve the overall quality of our sites at attractive rental rates, increasing our opportunity to improve profitability.








Our Merchandise

We offer a focused assortment of everyday necessities, which drive frequent customer visits, and key items in a broad range of general
merchandise categories. Our product assortment provides the opportunity for our customers to address most of their basic shopping needs with one trip. We sell high quality national brands from leading
manufacturers such as Procter & Gamble, Kimberly Clark, Unilever, Kellogg's, General Mills, Nabisco, Coca-Cola and PepsiCo, which are typically found at higher retail prices
elsewhere. Additionally, our private brand selections offer consumers even greater value with options to purchase entry price point items and national brand equivalent products at substantial
discounts to the national brand.

Our
stores generally offer approximately 10,000 to 12,000 total SKUs per store. The number of SKUs in a given store can vary based upon the store's size, geographic location,
merchandising initiatives, seasonality, and other factors. Most of our products are priced at $10 or less, with approximately 25% at $1 or less.

We
separate our merchandise into the following categories:

Consumablesis our largest category and includes the following:

•Paper and cleaning:Paper towels, bath tissue, paper
dinnerware, trash and storage bags, laundry and other home cleaning supplies. National manufacturers and brands include Procter & Gamble, Kimberly Clark, Unilever, Tide, Clorox, Hefty and
others. Our private brands include DG homeTMand Smart & SimpleTM.•Food:Packaged food and perishables. National brands
include Kellogg's, General Mills, Nabisco, Campbell's and others. Our private brand is Clover ValleyTM. We also carry quality regional brands of milk, eggs and other perishable items.•Beverages and snacks:Beverages, candy and snacks.
National brands include Coke, Pepsi, Hershey, Frito-Lay and others. Our private brands include Clover Valley and Sweet SmilesTM.•Health and beauty:Health aids,
over-the-counter medicines and personal care products. National brands include Tylenol, Prilosec, Olay, Covergirl, Johnson & Johnson, Pantene and others. Our private
brands include DG healthTMand DG bodyTM. Additionally, we are the only retailer that carries the full line of Rexall-branded vitamins and supplements.•Pet:Pet supplies. National brands include Alpo, Purina,
Pedigree, Milkbone and others. Our private brands are EverPetTMand EverPet BasicsTM.

Seasonal:Seasonal products include decorations, toys, batteries, small electronics, greeting cards, stationery, prepaid cell phones
and accessories,
gardening supplies, hardware, automotive and home office supplies. National brands include Mead stationery, Bic lighters, Crayola and Miracle Gro potting soil. Our private brands are DG
officeTM, and Holiday StyleTM. Additional private brands include True Living OutdoorsTMand True Living KidsTM.

Home Products:Home products includes kitchen supplies, cookware, small appliances, light bulbs, storage containers, frames, candles,
craft supplies
and bed and bath soft goods. National brands include
General Electric small appliances and Sterilite storage containers. Our private brands include DG home and True Living.

Apparel:Apparel includes casual everyday apparel for infants, toddlers, girls, boys, women and men, as well as socks, underwear,
disposable diapers,
shoes and accessories. Our private brands are DG babyTM, and Open TrailsTM. We hold an exclusive license to Bobbie Brooks clothing. We also hold a license to the Fisher
Price brand for certain items of children's clothing.








The
percentage of net sales of each of our four categories of merchandise for the periods indicated below was as follows:

200920082007Consumables70.8%69.3%66.5%Seasonal14.5%14.6%15.9%Home products7.4%8.2%9.2%Apparel7.3%7.9%8.4%

Our
home products and seasonal categories typically account for the highest gross profit margins, and the consumables category typically accounts for the lowest gross profit margin.

The Dollar General Store

The average Dollar General store has approximately 7,100 square feet of selling space and is typically operated by a manager, an
assistant manager and three or more sales clerks. Approximately 55% of our stores are in freestanding buildings, 43% in strip shopping centers and 2% are in downtown buildings. Most of our customers
live within three miles, or a 10 minute drive, of our stores. Our store strategy features low initial capital expenditures, limited maintenance capital, low occupancy and operating costs, and a
focused merchandise offering within a broad range of categories, allowing us to deliver low retail prices while generating strong cash flows and investment
returns. A typical new store in 2009 required approximately $230,000 of equipment, fixtures and initial inventory, net of payables.

We
generally have not encountered difficulty locating suitable store sites in the past. Given the size of the communities that we are targeting, we believe that there is ample
opportunity for new store growth in existing and new markets. In addition, the current real estate market is providing an opportunity for us to access higher quality sites at lower rates than in
recent years. Also, we believe we have significant opportunities available for our relocation and remodel programs. Remodeled stores require approximately $65,000 for equipment and fixtures while the
cost of relocations is approximately $110,000 for equipment, fixtures and additional inventory, net of payables. We have increased the combined number of remodeled and relocated stores to 450 in 2009
as compared to 404 in 2008 and 300 in 2007.

Our
recent store growth is summarized in the following table:

YearStores atBeginningof YearStoresOpenedStoresClosed(a)NetStoreIncrease/(Decrease)Stores atEnd of Year20078,229365400(35)8,19420088,194207391688,36220098,362500344668,828

(a)Includes
275 stores closed in 2007 as a result of certain strategic initiatives.

Our Customers

Our customers seek value and convenience. Depending on their financial situation and geographic proximity, customers rely on Dollar
General for varying levels of their basic needs, including fill-in shopping, periodic routine trips to stock up on household items, and weekly or more frequent trips to meet most of the
customer's essential needs. Our convenient locations, time-saving shopping experience and everyday low prices on quality merchandise make our stores a compelling alternative for purchasing
everyday needs. In the last year, we have seen increases in the annual number of shopping trips that our existing customer makes to Dollar General as well as the amount spent during each trip.










In
addition, we believe that our value proposition is attracting customers from a wide range of income brackets and life stages and that those customers are planning to continue shopping with us for
the foreseeable future.

In
2008, we engaged Nielsen to assist us in updating our proprietary customer research in an effort to better understand our customers, their purchasing habits and preferences. The
results of this study indicate that our highest frequency and highest spending customers, comprising approximately 50% of our sales, are those for whom low prices and value are critical to their
everyday shopping decisions. In August of 2009, we updated this study with a customer survey designed to give us insight into recent changes in our customer base. The results of this survey indicate
that, while the description of our core customer remains the same, our stores are now attracting customers who had not shopped at our stores previously because of their perception of image or quality.
In addition, the percentage of shoppers classified as one-stop shoppers has increased. We believe that recent additions to our merchandise offering, improvements to store operations and
expansion of operating hours, along with our consistent value proposition, are resonating well with our existing customers and have been critical to our success in attracting and retaining new
customers. Based on additional proprietary survey results, management believes that in excess of 95% of our current customers expect to shop our stores with the same or greater frequency after the
economy improves.

Based
on Nielsen Homescan Panel estimates of Dollar General shoppers, we estimate that only 41% of the population in our trade areas, defined as the counties in which we have stores, has
shopped at Dollar General in the past year. We believe that the remaining 59% represents an opportunity to grow our customer base. We are striving to continue to improve on the quality, selection and
pricing of our merchandise and upgrade our store standards in order to attract and retain increasing numbers and demographics of customers.

Our Suppliers

We purchase merchandise from a wide variety of suppliers and maintain direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand
name merchandise, such as Procter & Gamble, Kimberly Clark, Unilever, Kellogg's, General Mills, Nabisco, Coca-Cola and PepsiCo. Despite our broad offering, we maintain only a
limited number of SKUs per category, giving us a pricing advantage in dealing with our suppliers. Approximately 9% and 6% of our purchases in 2009 were from our largest and second largest suppliers,
respectively. Our private brands rely upon a diversified supplier base. We directly imported approximately 8% of our purchases at cost (13% of our purchases at retail) in 2009. Our vendor arrangements
generally provide for payment for such merchandise in U.S. dollars.

We
have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of core merchandise and believe that, if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we
would be able to obtain alternative sources without experiencing a substantial disruption of our business.

Distribution, Transportation and Inventory Management

Our stores are supported by nine distribution centers located strategically throughout our geographic footprint. Of these nine, we
lease three and own the other six. We lease additional temporary warehouse space as necessary to support our distribution needs. We believe that our distribution network is well-positioned
to support our planned growth for the near future. Over the past few years we have made significant investments in facilities, technological improvements and upgrades, and we continue to improve work
processes, all of which increase our efficiency and ability to support our merchandising and operations initiatives as well as our new store growth. We continually analyze and rebalance the network to
ensure that it remains efficient and provides the service our stores require. See "—Properties" for additional information pertaining to our distribution centers.








In
addition, we have actively sought to improve our inventory turns, and we believe that there remains opportunity for improvement. Initiatives along this front have included reducing
excess inventory in stores and better inventory tracking. We turned our inventory approximately 5.3 times over the most recent four quarters

Seasonality

Our business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, our highest sales volume occurs in the fourth quarter, which includes the
Christmas selling season, and the lowest occurs in the first quarter. In addition, our quarterly results can be affected by the timing of new store openings and store closings, the amount of sales
contributed by new and existing stores, as well as the timing of certain holidays. We purchase substantial amounts of inventory in the third quarter and incur higher shipping costs and higher payroll
costs in anticipation of the increased sales activity during the fourth quarter. In addition, we carry merchandise during our fourth quarter that we do not carry during the rest of the year, such as
gift sets, holiday decorations, certain baking items, and a broader assortment of toys and candy.

The
following table reflects the seasonality of net sales, gross profit, and net income (loss) by quarter for each of the quarters of our three most recent fiscal years. All of the
quarters reflected below are comprised of 13 weeks (see note (d) regarding results for the second quarter of 2007).

(in millions)1stQuarter2ndQuarter3rdQuarter4thQuarterYear Ended January 29, 2010Net sales$2,779.9$2,901.9$2,928.8$3,185.8Gross profit855.4906.0903.11,025.4Net income (loss)(a)83.093.675.687.2Year Ended January 30, 2009Net sales2,403.52,609.42,598.92,845.8Gross profit693.1758.0772.3837.7Net income (loss)(b)5.927.7(7.3)81.9Year Ended February 1, 2008Net sales2,275.3(d)2,312.82,559.6Gross profit(c)633.1(d)646.8740.4Net income (loss)(c)34.9(d)(33.0)55.4

(a)Includes
expenses, net of income taxes, of $82.9 million related to our initial public offering during the fourth quarter of 2009.(b)Includes
expenses, net of income taxes, of $37.4 million related to the settlement of a shareholder lawsuit during the third quarter of 2008.(c)Reflects
the impact of certain strategic real estate and inventory management initiatives during 2007.(d)Our
2007 merger with Buck Acquisition Corp. ("BAC"), an entity controlled by KKR, was completed during the second quarter of 2007. Net sales, Gross profit,
and Net income (loss) were $1,648.5, $438.5 and $(42.9), respectively, for the Predecessor period from May 5, 2007 to July 6, 2007, and were $699.1, $184.7 and $(27.2), respectively, for
the Successor period from March 6, 2007 to August 3, 2007. For comparison purposes, these Successor results include the results of operations for BAC for the period prior to the merger
from March 6, 2007 (its formation) through July 6, 2007 (reflecting the change in fair value of interest rate swaps).










Our Competition

We operate in the basic consumer packaged goods market, which is highly competitive with respect to price, store location, merchandise
quality, assortment and presentation, in-stock consistency, and customer service. We compete with discount stores and with many other retailers, including mass merchandise, grocery, drug,
convenience, variety and other specialty stores. These other retail companies operate stores in many of the areas where we operate, and many of them engage in extensive advertising and marketing
efforts. Our direct competitors include Family Dollar, Dollar Tree, Fred's, 99 Cents Only and various local, independent operators as well as Walmart, Walgreens, CVS, Rite Aid, Target and Costco,
among others. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do.

We
differentiate ourselves from other forms of retailing by offering consistently low prices in a convenient, small-store format. We believe that our prices are competitive due in part
to our low cost operating structure and the relatively limited assortment of products offered. Historically, we have minimized labor by offering fewer price points and a reliance on simple merchandise
presentation. Purchasing large volumes of merchandise within our focused assortment in each merchandise category allows us to keep our average costs low, contributing to our ability to offer
competitive everyday low prices to our customers. See "—Our Business Model" above for further discussion of our competitive situation.

Our Employees

As of February 26, 2010, we employed approximately 79,800 full-time and part-time employees, including
divisional and regional managers, district managers, store managers and distribution center and administrative personnel. We have increasingly focused on recruiting, training, motivating and retaining
employees, and we believe that the quality, performance and morale of our employees have increased as a result. We currently are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements.

Our Trademarks

We own marks that are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and are protected under applicable intellectual
property laws, including without limitation the trademarks Dollar General®, Dollar General Market®, Clover Valley®, DG®, DG Guarantee® and
the Dollar General price point designs, along with variations and formatives of these trademarks as well as certain other trademarks. We attempt to obtain registration of our trademarks whenever
practicable and to pursue vigorously any infringement of those marks. Our trademark registrations have various expiration dates; however, assuming that the trademark registrations are properly
renewed, they have a perpetual duration.

We
also hold licenses to use various trademarks owned by third parties, including without limitation an exclusive license to the Bobbie Brooks brand for clothing through March 31,
2011, with the option to renew it on a year-to-year basis, and a license to the Fisher Price brand for certain items of children's clothing through December 31, 2010.

Available Information

Our Web site address is www.dollargeneral.com. We file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual
reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. These documents are available free of charge to investors on or through the Investor Information portion of our Web site as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public
Reference Room at










100 F
Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as Dollar General, that file electronically with the SEC. The
address of that Web site is http://www.sec.gov.

