Item 1.Business

Introduction



Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking, securities
    and investment management firm that provides a wide range of
    financial services to a substantial and diversified client base
    that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments
    andhigh-net-worthindividuals. On May 7, 1999, we converted from a
    partnership to a corporation and completed an initial public
    offering of our common stock. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
    (Group Inc.) is a bank holding company and a financial
    holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the
    Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) under the
    U.S. Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act). Our
    depository institution subsidiary, Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS
    Bank USA), is a New York State-chartered bank.



Our activities are divided into three segments:
    (i) Investment Banking, (ii) Trading and Principal
    Investments and (iii) Asset Management and Securities
    Services.



All references to 2009, 2008 and 2007 refer to our fiscal years
    ended, or the dates, as the context requires,
    December 31, 2009, November 28, 2008 and
    November 30, 2007, respectively. When we use the terms
    “Goldman Sachs,” “the firm,” “we,”
    “us” and “our,” we mean Group Inc., a
    Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
    References herein to this Annual Report onForm 10-Kare to our Annual Report onForm 10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.



In connection with becoming a bank holding company, the firm was
    required to change its fiscal year-end from November to
    December. This change in the firm’s fiscal year-end
    resulted in aone-monthtransition period that began on November 29, 2008 and
    ended on December 26, 2008. Financial information for
    this fiscal transition period is included in Part II,
    Item 8 of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.In April 2009, the Board of Directors of Group Inc.
    approved a change in the firm’s fiscal year-end from the
    last Friday of December to December 31. Fiscal 2009 began
    on December 27, 2008 and ended on
    December 31, 2009.



Financial information concerning our business segments and
    geographic regions for each of 2009, 2008 and 2007 is set forth
    in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations,” the consolidated
    financial statements and the notes thereto, and the supplemental
    financial information, which are in Part II, Items 7,
    7A and 8 of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



www.gs.com

www.gs.com/shareholders

Form 10-K,

Form 10-Q

Form 8-K

non-GAAP



Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., 200 West Street, 19th Floor, New
    York, New York 10282, Attn: Investor Relations, telephone:212-902-0300,e-mail:gs-investor-relations@gs.com.





Cautionary
    Statement Pursuant to the U.S. Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995



Form 10-K,

Form 10-K,

non-U.S. banking

Form 10-K.



In the case of statements about our investment banking
    transaction backlog, such statements are subject to the risk
    that the terms of these transactions may be modified or that
    they may not be completed at all; therefore, the net revenues,
    if any, that we actually earn from these transactions may
    differ, possibly materially, from those currently expected.
    Important factors that could result in a modification of the
    terms of a transaction or a transaction not being completed
    include, in the case of underwriting transactions, a decline or
    continued weakness in general economic conditions, outbreak of
    hostilities, volatility in the securities markets generally or
    an adverse development with respect to the issuer of the
    securities and, in the case of financial advisory transactions,
    a decline in the securities markets, an inability to obtain
    adequate financing, an adverse development with respect to a
    party to the transaction or a failure to obtain a required
    regulatory approval. For a discussion of other important factors
    that could adversely affect our investment banking transactions,
    see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of
    this Annual Report onForm 10-K.





Segment Operating
    Results(in
    millions)Year EndedDecemberNovemberNovember200920082007InvestmentNet revenues$4,797$5,185$7,555BankingOperating expenses3,5273,1434,985Pre-tax earnings$1,270$2,042$2,570Trading and PrincipalNet revenues$34,373$9,063$31,226InvestmentsOperating expenses17,05311,80817,998Pre-taxearnings/(loss)$17,320$(2,745)$13,228Asset Management andNet revenues$6,003$7,974$7,206Securities ServicesOperating expenses4,6604,9395,363Pre-tax earnings$1,343$3,035$1,843TotalNet revenues$45,173$22,222$45,987Operating
    expenses(1)25,34419,88628,383Pre-taxearnings$19,829$2,336$17,604(1)Operating expenses include net
    provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings
    of $104 million, $(4) million and $37 million for
    the years ended December 2009, November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively, that have not been allocated
    to our segments.3




Where We Conduct
    Business



As of December 31, 2009, we operated offices in over
    30 countries and 42% of our 32,500 total staff were based
    outside the Americas (which includes the countries in North and
    South America). In 2009, we derived 44% of our net revenues
    outside of the Americas. See geographic information in
    Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Our clients are located worldwide, and we are an active
    participant in financial markets around the world. We have
    developed and continue to build strong investment banking
    relationships in new and developing markets. We also continue to
    expand our presence throughout these markets to invest
    strategically when opportunities arise and to work more closely
    with our private wealth and asset management clients in these
    regions. Our global reach is illustrated by the following:



•we are a member of and an active participant in most of the
    world’s major stock, options and futures exchanges and
    marketplaces;•we are a primary dealer in many of the largest government bond
    markets around the world;•we have interbank dealer status in currency markets around the
    world;•we are a member of or have relationships with major commodities
    exchanges worldwide; and•we have commercial banking or deposit-taking institutions
    organized or operating in the United States, the United Kingdom,
    Ireland, Brazil, Switzerland, Germany, France, Russia and South
    Korea.



Our businesses are supported by our Global Investment Research
    division, which, as of December 2009, provided research
    coverage of more than 3,000 companies worldwide and over
    45 national economies, and maintained a presence in
    locations around the world.





Business
    Segments



The primary products and activities of our business segments are
    set forth in the following chart:





Business
    Segment/ComponentPrimary Products and
    Activities

Investment Banking:

Financial Advisory•  Mergers and acquisitions advisory services

•  Financial restructuring advisory services



Underwriting•  Equity and debt underwriting





Trading and Principal Investments:

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities•  Commodities and commodity derivatives,
    including power generation and related activities

•  Credit products, including trading and
    investing in credit derivatives, investment-grade corporate
    securities, high-yield securities, bank and secured loans,
    municipal securities, emerging market and distressed debt,
    public and private equity securities and real estate

•  Currencies and currency derivatives

•  Interest rate products, including interest
    rate derivatives, global government securities and money market
    instruments, including matched book positions

•  Mortgage-related securities and loan products
    and other asset-backed instruments



Equities•  Equity securities and derivatives

•  Equities and options exchange-based
    market-making activities

•  Securities, futures and options clearing
    services

•  Insurance activities



Principal Investments•  Principal investments in connection with
    merchant banking activities

•  Investment in the ordinary shares of
    Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited





Asset Management and Securities Services:

Asset Management•  Investment advisory services, financial
    planning and investment products (primarily through separately
    managed accounts and commingled vehicles) across all major asset
    classes, including money markets, fixed income, equities and
    alternative investments (including hedge funds, private equity,
    real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation
    strategies), for institutional and individual investors
    (includinghigh-net-worthclients, as well as retail clients through third-party channels)

•  Management of merchant banking funds



Securities Services•  Prime brokerage

•  Financing services

•  Securities lending











Investment
    Banking



Investment Banking represented 11% of 2009 net revenues. We
    provide a broad range of investment banking services to a
    diverse group of corporations, financial institutions,
    investment funds, governments and individuals and seek to
    develop and maintainlong-termrelationships with these clients as their lead investment bank.



Our current structure, which is organized by regional, industry
    and product groups, seeks to combine client-focused investment
    bankers with execution and industry expertise. We continually
    assess and adapt our organization to meet the demands of our
    clients in each geographic region. Through our commitment to
    teamwork, we believe that we provide services in an integrated
    fashion for the benefit of our clients.



Our goal is to make available to our clients the entire
    resources of the firm in a seamless fashion, with investment
    banking serving as “front of the house.” To accomplish
    this objective, we focus on coordination among our equity and
    debt underwriting activities and our corporate risk and
    liability management activities. This coordination is intended
    to assist our investment banking clients in managing their asset
    and liability exposures and their capital.



Our Investment Banking segment is divided into two components:
    Financial Advisory and Underwriting.



Financial
    Advisory



Financial Advisory includes advisory assignments with respect to
    mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense
    activities, restructurings andspin-offs.Our mergers and acquisitions capabilities are evidenced by our
    significant share of assignments in large, complex transactions
    for which we provide multiple services, including“one-stop”acquisition financing and cross-border structuring expertise, as
    well as services in other areas of the firm, such as interest
    rate and currency hedging. In particular, a significant number
    of the loan commitments and bank and bridge loan facilities that
    we enter into arise in connection with our advisory assignments.



Underwriting



Underwriting includes public offerings and private placements of
    a wide range of securities and other financial instruments,
    including common and preferred stock, convertible and
    exchangeable securities,investment-gradedebt,high-yielddebt, sovereign and emerging market debt, municipal debt, bank
    loans,asset-backedsecurities and real estate-related securities, such asmortgage-relatedsecurities and the securities of real estate investment trusts.



Equity Underwriting.Equity underwriting has
    been along-termcore strength of Goldman Sachs. As with mergers and
    acquisitions, we have been particularly successful in winning
    mandates for large, complex transactions. We believe our
    leadership in worldwide initial public offerings and worldwide
    public common stock offerings reflects our expertise in complex
    transactions, prior experience and distribution capabilities.



Debt Underwriting.We engage in the
    underwriting and origination of various types of debt
    instruments, includinginvestment-gradedebt securities,high-yielddebt securities, bank and bridge loans and emerging market debt
    securities, which may be issued by, among others, corporate,
    sovereign and agency issuers. In addition, we underwrite and
    originate structured securities, which includemortgage-relatedsecurities and otherasset-backedsecurities and collateralized debt obligations.





Trading and
    Principal Investments



Trading and Principal Investments represented 76% of 2009 net
    revenues. Trading and Principal Investments facilitates client
    transactions with a diverse group of corporations, financial
    institutions, investment funds, governments and individuals
    through market making in, trading of and investing in fixed
    income and equity products, currencies, commodities and
    derivatives on these products. We also take proprietary
    positions on certain of these products. In addition, we engage
    inmarket-makingactivities on equities and options exchanges, and we clear
    client transactions on major stock, options and futures
    exchanges worldwide. In connection with our merchant banking and
    other investing activities, we make principal investments
    directly and through funds that we raise and manage.



To meet the needs of our clients, Trading and Principal
    Investments is diversified across a wide range of products. We
    believe our willingness and ability to take risk to facilitate
    client transactions distinguishes us from many of our
    competitors and substantially enhances our client relationships.



Our Trading and Principal Investments segment is divided into
    three components: Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities;
    Equities; and Principal Investments.



Fixed Income,
    Currency and Commodities and Equities



Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC) and Equities are
    large and diversified operations through which we assist clients
    with their investing and trading strategies and also engage in
    proprietary trading and investing activities.



In our client-driven businesses, FICC and Equities strive to
    deliverhigh-qualityservice by offering broadmarket-makingand market knowledge to our clients on a global basis. In
    addition, we use our expertise to take positions in markets, by
    committing capital and taking risk, to facilitate client
    transactions and to provide liquidity. Our willingness to make
    markets, commit capital and take risk in a broad range of fixed
    income, currency, commodity and equity products and their
    derivatives is crucial to our client relationships and to
    support our underwriting business by providing secondary market
    liquidity.



We generate trading net revenues from our client-driven
    businesses in three ways:



•First, in large, highly liquid markets, we undertake a high
    volume of transactions for modest spreads and fees.•Second, by capitalizing on our strong relationships and capital
    position, we undertake transactions in less liquid markets where
    spreads and fees are generally larger.•Finally, we structure and execute transactions that address
    complex client needs.



Our FICC and Equities businesses operate in close coordination
    to provide clients with services and cross-market knowledge and
    expertise.



In our proprietary activities in both FICC and Equities, we
    assume a variety of risks and devote resources to identify,
    analyze and benefit from these exposures. We capitalize on our
    analytical models to analyze information and make informed
    trading judgments, and we seek to benefit from perceived
    disparities in the value of assets in the trading markets and
    from macroeconomic and issuer-specific trends.



FICC



We make markets in and trade interest rate and credit products,mortgage-relatedsecurities and loan products and otherasset-backedinstruments, currencies and commodities, structure and enter
    into a wide variety of derivative transactions, and engage in
    proprietary trading and investing. FICC has five principal
    businesses: commodities; credit products; currencies; interest
    rate products, including money market instruments; andmortgage-relatedsecurities and loan products and otherasset-backedinstruments.





Commodities.We make markets in and trade a
    wide variety of commodities, commodity derivatives and interests
    in commodity-related assets, including oil and oil products,
    metals, natural gas and electricity, coal and agricultural
    products. As part of our commodities business, we acquire and
    dispose of interests in, and engage in the development and
    operation of, electric power generation facilities and related
    activities.



Credit Products.We make markets in and trade
    a broad array of credit andcredit-linkedproducts all over the world, including credit derivatives,investment-gradecorporate securities,high-yieldsecurities, bank and secured loans (origination and trading),
    municipal securities, and emerging market and distressed debt.
    For example, we enter, as principal, into complex structured
    transactions designed to meet client needs.



In addition, we provide credit through bridge and other loan
    facilities to a broad range of clients. Commitments that are
    extended for contingent acquisition financing are often intended
    to beshort-termin nature, as borrowers often seek to replace them with other
    funding sources. As part of our ongoing credit origination
    activities, we may seek to reduce our credit risk on commitments
    by syndicating all or substantial portions of commitments to
    other investors or, upon funding, by securitizing the positions
    through investment vehicles sold to other investors.
    Underwriting fees from syndications of these commitments are
    recorded in debt underwriting in our Investment Banking segment.
    However, to the extent that we recognize losses on these
    commitments, such losses are recorded within our Trading and
    Principal Investments segment, net of any related underwriting
    fees. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements
    in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report onForm 10-Kfor additional information on our commitments.



Our credit products business includes making significantlong-termandshort-terminvestments for our own account (sometimes investing together
    with our merchant banking funds) in a broad array of asset
    classes (including distressed debt) globally. We
    opportunistically invest in debt and equity securities and
    secured loans, and in private equity, real estate and other
    assets.



Currencies.We act as a dealer in foreign
    exchange and trade in most currencies on exchanges and in cash
    and derivative markets globally.



Interest Rate Products.We make markets in and
    trade a variety of interest rate products, including interest
    rate swaps, options and other derivatives, and government bonds,
    as well as money market instruments, such as commercial paper,
    treasury bills, repurchase agreements and other highly liquid
    securities and instruments. This business includes our matched
    book, which consists ofshort-termcollateralized financing transactions.



Mortgage Business.We make markets in and
    trade commercial and residentialmortgage-relatedsecurities and loan products and otherasset-backedand derivative instruments. We acquire positions in these
    products for trading purposes as well as for securitization or
    syndication. We also originate and service commercial and
    residential mortgages.



Equities



We make markets in and trade equities andequity-relatedproducts, structure and enter into equity derivative
    transactions, and engage in proprietary trading. We generate
    commissions from executing and clearing client transactions on
    major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide through our
    Equities client franchise and clearing activities.



Equities includes two principal businesses: our client franchise
    business and principal strategies. We also engage in
    exchange-basedmarket-makingactivities and in insurance activities.





Client Franchise Business.Our client
    franchise business includes primarily client-driven activities
    in the shares, equity derivatives and convertible securities
    markets. These activities also include clearing client
    transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges
    worldwide, as well as our exchange-based optionsmarket-makingbusiness. Our client franchise business increasingly involves
    providing our clients with access to electronic“low-touch”equity trading platforms, and electronic trades account for the
    majority of our client trading activity in this business.
    However, a majority of our net revenues in this business
    continues to be derived from our traditional“high-touch”handling of more complex trades. We expect both types of trading
    activities to remain important components of our client
    franchise business.



We trade equity securities andequity-relatedproducts, including convertible securities, options, futures andover-the-counter(OTC) derivative instruments, on a global basis as an agent, as
    a market maker or otherwise as a principal. As a principal, we
    facilitate client transactions, often by committing capital and
    taking risk, to provide liquidity to clients with large blocks
    of stocks or options. For example, we are active in the
    execution of large block trades. We also execute transactions as
    agent and offer clients direct electronic access to trading
    markets.



Our derivatives business structures and executes derivatives on
    indices, industry groups, financial measures and individual
    company stocks. We develop strategies and provide information
    with respect to portfolio hedging and restructuring and asset
    allocation transactions. We also work with our clients to create
    specially tailored instruments to enable sophisticated investors
    to undertake hedging strategies and to establish or liquidate
    investment positions. We are one of the leading participants in
    the trading and development of equity derivative instruments. In
    listed options, we are registered as a primary or lead market
    maker or otherwise make markets on the International Securities
    Exchange, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, NYSE Arca, the
    Boston Options Exchange, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and
    NYSE Alternext US. In futures and options on futures, we are
    market makers on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago
    Board of Trade.



Principal Strategies.Our principal strategies
    business is a multi-strategy investment business that invests
    and trades our capital across global public markets. Investment
    strategies include fundamental equities and relative value
    trading (which involves trading strategies designed to take
    advantage of perceived discrepancies in the relative value of
    financial instruments, including equity,equity-relatedand debt instruments), event-driven investments (which focus on
    event-oriented special situations such as corporate
    restructurings, bankruptcies, recapitalizations, mergers and
    acquisitions, and legal and regulatory events), convertible bond
    trading and various types of volatility trading.



Exchange-BasedMarket-MakingActivities.Our exchange-basedmarket-makingbusiness consists of our stock andexchange-tradedfunds (ETF)market-makingactivities. In the United States, we are one of the leading
    Designated Market Makers for stocks traded on the NYSE. For
    ETFs, we are registered market makers on NYSE Arca.



Insurance Activities.We engage in a range of
    insurance and reinsurance businesses, including buying,
    originatingand/orreinsuring fixed and variable annuity and life insurance
    contracts, reinsuring property catastrophe and residential
    homeowner risks and providing power interruption coverage to
    power generating facilities.



Principal
    Investments



Principal Investments primarily includes net revenues from three
    sources: returns on corporate and real estate investments;
    overrides on corporate and real estate investments made by
    merchant banking funds that we manage; and our investment in the
    ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
    Limited (ICBC).





Returns on Corporate and Real Estate
    Investments.As of December 2009, the
    aggregate carrying value of our principal investments held
    directly or through our merchant banking funds, excluding our
    investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC and our investment in
    the convertible preferred stock of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
    Group, Inc. (SMFG), was $13.98 billion, comprised of
    corporate principal investments with an aggregate carrying value
    of $12.60 billion and real estate investments with an
    aggregate carrying value of $1.38 billion. In addition, as
    of December 2009, we had outstanding unfunded equity
    capital commitments of up to $12.27 billion, comprised of
    corporate principal investment commitments of $9.82 billion
    and real estate investment commitments of $2.45 billion.



Overrides.Consists of the increased share of
    the income and gains derived from our merchant banking funds
    when the return on a fund’s investments over the life of
    the fund exceeds certain threshold returns (typically referred
    to as an override). Overrides are recognized in net revenues
    when all material contingencies have been resolved.



ICBC.Our investment in the ordinary shares of
    ICBC is valued using the quoted market price adjusted for
    transfer restrictions. Under the original transfer restrictions,
    the ICBC shares we held would have become free from transfer
    restrictions in equal installments on April 28, 2009
    and October 20, 2009. During the quarter ended
    March 2009, the shares became subject to new supplemental
    transfer restrictions. Under these new supplemental transfer
    restrictions, on April 28, 2009, 20% of the ICBC
    shares that we held became free from transfer restrictions and
    we completed the disposition of these shares during the second
    quarter of 2009. Our remaining ICBC shares are subject to
    transfer restrictions, which prohibit liquidation at any time
    prior to April 28, 2010. As of December 2009, the
    fair value of our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC was
    $8.11 billion, of which $5.13 billion is held by
    investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs. For further
    information regarding our investment in the ordinary shares of
    ICBC, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
    Critical Accounting Policies — Fair Value —
    Cash Instruments” in Part II, Item 7 of this
    Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Asset Management
    and Securities Services



Asset Management and Securities Services represented 13% of 2009
    net revenues. Our asset management business provides investment
    and wealth advisory services and offers investment products
    (primarily through separately managed accounts and commingled
    vehicles) across all major asset classes to a diverse group of
    institutions and individuals worldwide. Asset Management
    primarily generates revenues in the form of management and
    incentive fees. Securities Services provides prime brokerage
    services, financing services and securities lending services to
    institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds,
    pension funds and foundations, and tohigh-net-worthindividuals worldwide, and generates revenues primarily in the
    form of interest rate spreads or fees.



Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment is divided
    into two components: Asset Management and Securities Services.



Asset
    Management



Asset Management primarily consists of two related
    businesses — Goldman Sachs Asset Management (GSAM) and
    Private Wealth Management (PWM) — through which we
    offer a broad array of investment strategies and wealth advisory
    services to a diverse group of clients worldwide. In addition,
    Asset Management includes management fees related to our
    merchant banking activities.



GSAM.GSAM provides asset management services
    and offers investment products (primarily through separately
    managed accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds
    and private investment funds) across all major asset classes:
    money markets, fixed income, equities and alternative
    investments (including hedge funds, private equity, real estate,
    currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies). GSAM
    distributes investment products directly to the firm’s
    institutional clients, including pension funds, governmental
    organizations, corporations, insurance





companies, banks, foundations and endowments, and indirectly to
    institutional and individual clients throughthird-partydistribution channels, including brokerage firms, banks,
    insurance companies and other financial intermediaries. In
    addition, our Global Portfolio Solutions team offers clients
    investment and advisory services extending to risk management,
    portfolio implementation, reporting and monitoring.



PWM.PWM provides investment and wealth
    advisory services globally tohigh-net-worthindividuals, family offices and selected institutions
    (principally foundations and endowments).



Management of Merchant Banking Funds.Goldman
    Sachs sponsors numerous corporate and real estate private
    investment funds. As of December 2009, the amount of Assets
    under management (AUM) in these funds (including both funded
    amounts and unfunded commitments on which we earn fees) was
    $93 billion.



Our strategy with respect to these funds generally is to invest
    opportunistically to build a portfolio of investments that is
    diversified by industry, product type, geographic region, and
    transaction structure and type. Our corporate investment funds
    pursue, on a global basis,long-terminvestments in equity and debt securities in privately
    negotiated transactions, leveraged buyouts, acquisitions and
    investments in funds managed by external parties. Our real
    estate investment funds invest in real estate operating
    companies, debt and equity interests in real estate assets, and
    other real estate-related investments. In addition, our merchant
    banking funds include funds that invest in infrastructure and
    infrastructure-related assets and companies on a global basis.



Merchant banking activities generate three primary revenue
    streams. First, we receive a management fee that is generally a
    percentage of a fund’s committed capital, invested capital,
    total gross acquisition cost or asset value. These annual
    management fees are included in our Asset Management net
    revenues. Second, Goldman Sachs, as a substantial investor in
    some of these funds, is allocated its proportionate share of the
    funds’ unrealized appreciation or depreciation arising from
    changes in fair value as well as gains and losses upon
    realization. Third, after a fund has achieved a minimum return
    for fund investors, we receive an increased share of the
    fund’s income and gains that is a percentage of the income
    and gains from the fund’s investments. The second and third
    of these revenue streams are included in Principal Investments
    within our Trading and Principal Investments segment.



Assets under management.AUM typically
    generates fees as a percentage of asset value, which is affected
    by investment performance and by inflows and redemptions. The
    fees that we charge vary by asset class, as do our related
    expenses. In certain circumstances, we are also entitled to
    receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a fund’s
    return or when the return on assets under management exceeds
    specified benchmark returns or other performance targets.
    Incentive fees are recognized when the performance period ends
    (in most cases, on December 31) and they are no longer
    subject to adjustment.



AUM includes assets in our mutual funds, alternative investment
    funds and separately managed accounts for institutional and
    individual investors. Alternative investments include our
    merchant banking funds, which generate revenues as described
    above under“— Managementof Merchant Banking Funds.” AUM includes assets in
    clients’ brokerage accounts to the extent that they
    generate fees based on the assets in the accounts rather than
    commissions on transactional activity in the accounts.



AUM does not include assets in brokerage accounts that generate
    commissions,mark-upsand
    spreads based on transactional activity, or our own investments
    in funds that we manage. Net revenues from these assets are
    included in our Trading and Principal Investments segment. AUM
    also does not includenon-fee-payingassets, including interest-bearing deposits held through our
    bank depository institution subsidiaries.





The amount of AUM is set forth in the graph below. In the
    following graph, as well as in the following tables,
    substantially all assets under management are valued as of
    December 31 (in the case of 2009) and November 30 (in the
    case of earlier years):Assets Under
    Management(in
    billions)The following table sets forth AUM by asset class:Assets Under
    Management by Asset Class(in
    billions)As ofDecember 31,November 30,November 30,200920082007Alternative
    investments(1)$146$146$151Equity146112255Fixed income315248256Totalnon-moneymarket assets607506662Money markets264273206Total assets under management$871$779$868(1)Primarily includes hedge funds,
    private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset
    allocation strategies.12




The table below sets forth the amount of AUM by distribution
    channel and client category:



Assets Under
    Management by Distribution Channel(in
    billions)



As ofDecember 31,November 30,November 30,200920082007• Directly Distributed— Institutional$297$273$354— High-net-worthindividuals231215219•Third-PartyDistributed— Institutional,high-net-worthindividuals and retail343291295Total$871$779$868









Securities
    Services



Securities Services provides prime brokerage services, financing
    services and securities lending services to institutional
    clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and
    foundations, and tohigh-net-worthindividuals worldwide.



Prime brokerage services.We offer prime
    brokerage services to our clients, allowing them the flexibility
    to trade with most brokers while maintaining a single source for
    financing and consolidated portfolio reports. Our prime
    brokerage business provides clearing and custody in
    53 markets globally and provides consolidated
    multi-currency accounting and reporting, fund administration and
    other ancillary services.



Financing services.A central element of our
    prime brokerage business involves providing financing to our
    clients for their securities trading activities through margin
    and securities loans that are collateralized by securities, cash
    or other acceptable collateral.



Securities lending services.Securities
    lending services principally involve the borrowing and lending
    of securities to cover clients’ and Goldman Sachs’
    short sales and otherwise to make deliveries into the market. In
    addition, we are an active participant in thebroker-to-brokersecurities lending business and thethird-partyagency lending business. As a general matter, net revenues in
    securities lending services in our second quarter are higher due
    to seasonally higher activity levels in Europe.

Global Investment
    Research



Global Investment Research provides fundamental research on
    companies, industries, economies, currencies and commodities and
    macro strategy research on a worldwide basis.



Global Investment Research employs a team approach that as of
    December 2009 provided research coverage of more than 3,000
    companies worldwide and over 45 national economies. This is
    accomplished by the following departments:



•The Equity Research Departments provide fundamental analysis,
    earnings forecasts and investment opinions for equity securities;•The Credit Research Department provides fundamental analysis,
    forecasts and investment opinions as toinvestment-gradeandhigh-yieldcorporate bonds and credit derivatives; and







•The Global ECS Department formulates macroeconomic forecasts for
    economic activity, foreign exchange and interest rates, provides
    research on the commodity markets, and provides equity market
    forecasts, opinions on both asset and industry sector
    allocation, equity trading strategies, credit trading strategies
    and options research.



Further information regarding research at Goldman Sachs is
    provided below under “— Regulation —
    Regulations Applicable in and Outside the United States”
    and “Legal Proceedings — Research Independence
    Matters” in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report
    onForm 10-K.

Business
    Continuity and Information Security



Business continuity and information security are high priorities
    for Goldman Sachs. Our Business Continuity Program has been
    developed to provide reasonable assurance of business continuity
    in the event of disruptions at the firm’s critical
    facilities and to comply with the regulatory requirements of the
    Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Because we are a bank
    holding company, our Business Continuity Program is also subject
    to review by the Federal Reserve Board. The key elements of the
    program are crisis management, people recovery facilities,
    business recovery, systems and data recovery, and process
    improvement. In the area of information security, we have
    developed and implemented a framework of principles, policies
    and technology to protect the information assets of the firm and
    our clients. Safeguards are applied to maintain the
    confidentiality, integrity and availability of information
    resources.

Employees



Management believes that a major strength and principal reason
    for the success of Goldman Sachs is the quality and dedication
    of our people and the shared sense of being part of a team. We
    strive to maintain a work environment that fosters
    professionalism, excellence, diversity, cooperation among our
    employees worldwide and high standards of business ethics.



Instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all employees is a
    continuous process, in which training plays an important part.
    All employees are offered the opportunity to participate in
    education and periodic seminars that we sponsor at various
    locations throughout the world. Another important part of
    instilling the Goldman Sachs culture is our employee review
    process. Employees are reviewed by supervisors, co-workers and
    employees they supervise in a360-degreereview process that is integral to our team approach.



As of December 2009, we had 32,500 total staff, excluding
    staff at consolidated entities held for investment purposes. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Results of
    Operations — Operating Expenses” in Part II,
    Item 7 of this Annual Report onForm 10-Kfor additional information on our consolidated entities held for
    investment purposes.

Competition



The financial services industry — and all of our
    businesses — are intensely competitive, and we expect
    them to remain so. Our competitors are other entities that
    provide investment banking, securities and investment management
    services, as well as those entities that make investments in
    securities, commodities, derivatives, real estate, loans and
    other financial assets. These entities include brokers and
    dealers, investment banking firms, commercial banks, insurance
    companies, investment advisers, mutual funds, hedge funds,
    private equity funds and merchant banks. We compete with some of
    our competitors globally and with others on a regional, product
    or niche basis. Our competition is based on a number of factors,
    including transaction execution, our products and services,
    innovation, reputation and price.





We also face intense competition in attracting and retaining
    qualified employees. Our ability to continue to compete
    effectively in our businesses will depend upon our ability to
    attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing
    employees and to continue to compensate employees competitively
    amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny on the compensation
    practices of large financial institutions. Our pay practices and
    those of our principal competitors are subject to review by, and
    the standards of, the Federal Reserve Board and regulators
    outside the United States, including the Financial Services
    Authority (FSA) in the United Kingdom. See
    “Regulation — Banking Regulation —
    Compensation Practices” below and “Risk
    Factors — Our businesses may be adversely affected if
    we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees” in
    Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report onForm 10-Kfor more information on the regulation of our compensation
    practices.



Over time, there has been substantial consolidation and
    convergence among companies in the financial services industry.
    This trend accelerated in recent years as the credit crisis
    caused numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry
    participants. Many commercial banks and otherbroad-basedfinancial services firms have had the ability for some time to
    offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and
    insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking
    services, which may enhance their competitive position. They
    also have had the ability to support investment banking and
    securities products with commercial banking, insurance and other
    financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share,
    which has resulted in pricing pressure in our investment banking
    and trading businesses and could result in pricing pressure in
    other of our businesses.



Moreover, we have faced, and expect to continue to face,
    pressure to retain market share by committing capital to
    businesses or transactions on terms that offer returns that may
    not be commensurate with their risks. In particular, corporate
    clients seek such commitments (such as agreements to participate
    in their commercial paper backstop or other loan facilities)
    from financial services firms in connection with investment
    banking and other assignments.



We provide these commitments primarily through GS Bank USA and
    its subsidiaries (including the William Street entities) and
    through Goldman Sachs Lending Partners LLC. With respect to most
    of these commitments, SMFG provides us with credit loss
    protection that is generally limited to 95% of the first loss we
    realize on approved loan commitments, up to a maximum of
    approximately $950 million. In addition, subject to the
    satisfaction of certain conditions, upon our request, SMFG will
    provide protection for 70% of additional losses on such
    commitments, up to a maximum of $1.13 billion, of which
    $375 million of protection has been provided as of
    December 2009. We also use other financial instruments to
    mitigate credit risks related to certain of these commitments
    that are not covered by SMFG. See Note 8 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of this Annual Report onForm 10-Kfor more information regarding the William Street entities and
    for a description of the credit loss protection provided by
    SMFG. An increasing number of our commitments in connection with
    investment banking and other assignments are made through GS
    Bank USA and its subsidiaries (other than the William Street
    entities) or our other subsidiaries. In addition, an increasing
    number of these commitments do not benefit from the SMFG loss
    protection.



The trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly
    increased the capital base and geographic reach of some of our
    competitors. This trend has also hastened the globalization of
    the securities and other financial services markets. As a
    result, we have had to commit capital to support our
    international operations and to execute large global
    transactions. To take advantage of some of our most significant
    challenges and opportunities, we will have to compete
    successfully with financial institutions that are larger and
    better capitalized and that may have a stronger local presence
    and longer operating history outside the United States.



We have experienced intense price competition in some of our
    businesses in recent years. For example, over the past several
    years the increasing volume of trades executed electronically,
    through the internet and through alternative trading systems,
    has increased the pressure on trading commissions, in that
    commissions for“low-touch”electronic trading are generally lower than for





“high-touch”non-electronictrading. It appears that this trend toward electronic and other“low-touch,”low-commissiontrading will continue. In addition, we believe that we will
    continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other
    areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain
    market share by further reducing prices.

Regulation



Goldman Sachs, as a participant in the banking, securities,
    commodity futures and options and insurance industries, is
    subject to extensive regulation in the United States and the
    other countries in which we operate. See “Risk
    Factors — Our businesses and those of our clients are
    subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the
    world” in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report
    onForm 10-Kfor a further discussion of the effect that regulation may have
    on our businesses. As a matter of public policy, regulatory
    bodies around the world are charged with safeguarding the
    integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with
    protecting the interests of clients participating in those
    markets, including depositors in U.S. depository
    institutions such as GS Bank USA. They are not, however,
    generally charged with protecting the interests of Goldman
    Sachs’ shareholders or creditors.



Recent market disruptions have led to numerous proposals in the
    United States and internationally for potentially significant
    changes in the regulation of the financial services industry.
    See “Risk Factors — Our business and those of our
    clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around
    the world” in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual
    Report onForm 10-Kfor a further discussion of some of these proposals and their
    potential impact on us.



Banking
    Regulation



On September 21, 2008, Group Inc. became a bank
    holding company under the BHC Act. As of that date, the Federal
    Reserve Board became the primary U.S. regulator of
    Group Inc., as a consolidated entity. As of
    August 14, 2009, Group Inc. elected to become a
    financial holding company under theU.S. Gramm-Leach-BlileyAct of 1999 (GLB Act), as described below.



Supervision
    and Regulation



As a bank holding company and a financial holding company under
    the BHC Act, Group Inc. is subject to supervision and
    examination by the Federal Reserve Board. Under the system of
    “functional regulation” established under the BHC Act,
    the Federal Reserve Board supervises Group Inc., including
    all of its nonbank subsidiaries, as an “umbrella
    regulator” of the consolidated organization and generally
    defers to the primary U.S. regulators of
    Group Inc.’s U.S. depository institution
    subsidiary, as applicable, and to the other U.S. regulators
    of Group Inc.’sU.S. non-depositoryinstitution subsidiaries that regulate certain activities of
    those subsidiaries. Such “functionally regulated”non-depositoryinstitution subsidiaries includebroker-dealersregistered with the SEC, such as our principalU.S. broker-dealer,Goldman, Sachs & Co. (GS&Co.), insurance
    companies regulated by state insurance authorities, investment
    advisors registered with the SEC with respect to their
    investment advisory activities and entities regulated by the
    U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) with
    respect to certain futures-related activities.



Activities



The BHC Act generally restricts bank holding companies from
    engaging in business activities other than the business of
    banking and certain closely related activities. As a financial
    holding company under the GLB Act, we may engage in a broader
    range of financial and related activities than are permissible
    for bank holding companies as long as we continue to meet the
    eligibility requirements for financial holding companies. These
    activities include underwriting, dealing and making markets in
    securities, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking
    investments in nonfinancial companies. In addition, we are
    permitted under the GLB Act to continue to engage in





certain commodities activities in the United States that were
    impermissible for bank holding companies as of
    September 30, 1997, if the assets held pursuant to
    these activities do not equal 5% or more of our consolidated
    assets. Our ability to maintain financial holding company status
    is dependent on a number of factors, including our
    U.S. depository institution subsidiaries continuing to
    qualify as “well capitalized” and
    “well-managed” as described under“— PromptCorrective Action” below.



Although we do not believe that any activities that are material
    to our current or currently proposed business are impermissible
    activities for us as a financial holding company, the BHC Act
    also grants a new bank holding company, such as Group Inc.,
    two years from the date the entity becomes a bank holding
    company to comply with the restrictions on its activities
    imposed by the BHC Act with respect to any activities in which
    it was engaged when it became a bank holding company. In
    addition, under the BHC Act, we can apply to the Federal Reserve
    Board for up to threeone-yearextensions.



As a bank holding company, Group Inc. is required to obtain
    prior Federal Reserve Board approval before directly or
    indirectly acquiring more than 5% of any class of voting shares
    of any unaffiliated depository institution. In addition, as a
    bank holding company, we may generally engage in banking and
    other financial activities abroad, including investing in and
    owningnon-U.S. banks,if those activities and investments do not exceed certain limits
    and, in some cases, if we have obtained the prior approval of
    the Federal Reserve Board.



Capital
    Requirements



We are subject to regulatory capital requirements administered
    by the U.S. federal banking agencies. Our bank depository
    institution subsidiaries, including GS Bank USA, are subject to
    similar capital requirements. Under the Federal Reserve
    Board’s capital adequacy requirements and the regulatory
    framework for prompt corrective action (PCA) that is applicable
    to GS Bank USA, Goldman Sachs and its bank depository
    institution subsidiaries must meet specific capital requirements
    that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and
    certainoff-balance-sheetitems as calculated under regulatory reporting practices.
    Goldman Sachs and its bank depository institution
    subsidiaries’ capital amounts, as well as GS Bank
    USA’s PCA classification, are also subject to qualitative
    judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings
    and other factors.



We report capital ratios computed in accordance with the
    regulatory capital requirements currently applicable to bank
    holding companies, which are based on the Capital Accord of the
    Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel I). These ratios
    are used by the Federal Reserve Board and other
    U.S. federal banking agencies in the supervisory review
    process, including the assessment of the firm’s capital
    adequacy.



Our Tier 1 capital consists of common shareholders’
    equity, qualifying preferred stock and our junior subordinated
    debt issued to trusts, less deductions for goodwill, disallowed
    intangible assets and other items. Our total capital consists of
    our Tier 1 capital and our qualifying subordinated debt,
    less certain deductions. Our total capital ratio is equal to
    total capital as a percentage ofRisk-WeightedAssets (RWAs), which are calculated in accordance with the
    Federal Reserve Board’srisk-basedcapital requirements, and our Tier 1 capital ratio is equal
    to Tier 1 capital as a percentage of RWAs. The calculation
    of RWAs is based on the amount of the firm’s market risk
    and credit risk. Certain measures included in the calculation of
    the firm’s RWAs for market risk are under review by the
    Federal Reserve Board. Additional information on the calculation
    of our Tier 1 capital, total capital and RWAs is set forth
    in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Equity
    Capital — Consolidated Capital Requirements,” and
    in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, which
    are in Part II, Items 7 and 8 of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



As of December 2009, our total capital ratio was 18.2%, and
    our Tier 1 capital ratio was 15.0%.





We are currently working to implement the requirements set out
    in the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of
    Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued by the Basel
    Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel II) as applicable
    to us as a bank holding company. U.S. banking regulators
    have incorporated the Basel II framework into the existingrisk-basedcapital requirements by requiring that internationally active
    banking organizations, such as Group Inc., transition to
    Basel II over several years. During a parallel period, we
    anticipate that Group Inc.’s capital calculations
    computed under both the Basel I rules and the Basel II rules
    will be reported to the Federal Reserve Board for examination
    and compliance for at least four consecutive quarterly periods.
    Once the parallel period and subsequent three-year transition
    period are successfully completed, Group Inc. will utilize
    the Basel II framework as its means of capital adequacy
    assessment, measurement and reporting and will discontinue use
    of Basel I. The Basel II framework was implemented in several
    countries during the second half of 2007 and in 2008, while
    others began implementation in 2009. The Basel II rules
    therefore already apply to certain of our operations innon-U.S. jurisdictions.



The Federal Reserve Board also has established minimum leverage
    ratio requirements. The Tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as
    Tier 1 capital under Basel I divided by adjusted average
    total assets (which includes adjustments for disallowed goodwill
    and certain intangible assets). The minimum Tier 1 leverage
    ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that have received the
    highest supervisory rating under Federal Reserve Board
    guidelines or that have implemented the Federal Reserve
    Board’srisk-basedcapital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies
    must have a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. Bank
    holding companies may be expected to maintain ratios well above
    the minimum levels, depending upon their particular condition,
    risk profile and growth plans. As of December 2009, our
    Tier 1 leverage ratio under Basel I was 7.6%.



Payment of
    Dividends



Federal and state law imposes limitations on the payment of
    dividends by our bank depository institution subsidiaries. The
    amount of dividends that may be paid by a state-chartered bank
    that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, such as GS Bank
    USA or our national bank trust company subsidiary, is limited to
    the lesser of the amounts calculated under a “recent
    earnings” test and an “undivided profits” test.
    Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if
    the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar
    year is in excess of the current year’s net income combined
    with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless
    the bank obtains the approval of its chartering authority. Under
    the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess
    of a bank’s “undivided profits.” New York law
    imposes similar limitations on New York State-chartered banks.
    As of December 2009, GS Bank USA could have declared
    dividends of $3.30 billion to Group Inc. in accordance
    with these limitations. In addition to the dividend restrictions
    described above, the banking regulators have authority to
    prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking
    organizations they supervise if, in the banking regulator’s
    opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or
    unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the
    banking organization.



It is also the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that a bank
    holding company generally only pay dividends on common stock out
    of net income available to common shareholders over the past
    year and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention
    appears consistent with the bank holding company’s capital
    needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. In the
    current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve
    Board has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully
    review their dividend policy and has discouraged dividend
    pay-out ratios that are at the 100% level unless both asset
    quality and capital are very strong. A bank holding company also
    should not maintain a dividend level that places undue pressure
    on the capital of bank depository institution subsidiaries, or
    that may undermine the bank holding company’s ability to
    serve as a source of strength for such bank depository
    institution subsidiaries. Under temporary guidelines in effect
    for the “near- tomedium-term,”certain large bank holding companies (including Group Inc.)
    are required to





consult with the Federal Reserve Board before increasing
    dividends. In addition, certain of Group Inc.’s
    nonbank subsidiaries are subject to separate regulatory
    limitations on dividends and distributions, including ourbroker-dealerand our insurance subsidiaries as described below.



Source of
    Strength



Under Federal Reserve Board policy, Group Inc. is expected
    to act as a source of strength to GS Bank USA and to commit
    capital and financial resources to support this subsidiary. Such
    support may be required by the Federal Reserve Board at times
    when we might otherwise determine not to provide it. Capital
    loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks
    are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain
    other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a
    bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the
    bank holding company to a federal bank regulator to maintain the
    capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy
    trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.



However, because the BHC Act provides for functional regulation
    of bank holding company activities by various regulators, the
    BHC Act prohibits the Federal Reserve Board from requiring
    payment by a holding company or subsidiary to a depository
    institution if the functional regulator of the payor objects to
    such payment. In such a case, the Federal Reserve Board could
    instead require the divestiture of the depository institution
    and impose operating restrictions pending the divestiture.



Cross-guarantee
    Provisions



Each insured depository institution “controlled” (as
    defined in the BHC Act) by the same bank holding company can be
    held liable to the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance
    Corporation for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be
    incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of any other insured
    depository institution controlled by that holding company and
    for any assistance provided by the FDIC to any of those banks
    that is in danger of default. Such a “cross-guarantee”
    claim against a depository institution is generally superior in
    right of payment to claims of the holding company and its
    affiliates against that depository institution. At this time, we
    control only one insured depository institution for this
    purpose, namely GS Bank USA. However, if, in the future, we were
    to control other insured depository institutions, such
    cross-guarantee would apply to all such insured depository
    institutions.



Compensation
    Practices



risk-taking

risk-taking

risk-management





In September 2009, the Financial Stability Board,
    established at the direction of the leaders of the Group of 20,
    released standards for implementing certain compensation
    principles for banks and other financial companies designed to
    encourage sound compensation practices. These standards are to
    be implemented by local regulators. Thus far, regulators in a
    number of countries, including the United Kingdom, France and
    Germany, have proposed or adopted policies related to
    compensation at financial institutions. These policies are in
    addition to the proposals made by the Federal Reserve Board in
    October 2009. The United Kingdom has proposed a
    non-deductible 50% tax on certain financial institutions in
    respect of discretionary bonuses in excess of £25,000
    awarded under arrangements made between
    December 9, 2009 and April 5, 2010 to
    “relevant banking employees.” Separately, the FDIC has
    solicited comments on whether to amend itsrisk-baseddeposit insurance assessment system to potentially increase
    assessment rates on financial institutions with compensation
    programs that put the Deposit Insurance Fund at risk.



FDIC Temporary
    Liquidity Guarantee Program



long-term

Form 10-K



GS Bank
    USA



Our U.S. depository institution subsidiary, GS Bank USA, a
    New York State-chartered bank and a member of the Federal
    Reserve System and the FDIC, is regulated by the Federal Reserve
    Board and the New York State Banking Department and is subject
    to minimum capital requirements that (subject to certain
    exceptions) are similar to those applicable to bank holding
    companies. A number of our businesses are conducted partially or
    entirely through GS Bank USA and its subsidiaries, including:
    bank loan trading and origination; interest rate, credit,
    currency and other derivatives; leveraged finance; commercial
    and residential mortgage origination, trading and servicing;
    structured finance; and agency lending, custody and hedge fund
    administration services. These businesses are subject to
    regulation by the Federal Reserve Board, the New York State
    Banking Department and the FDIC.



Deposit
    Insurance



GS Bank USA accepts deposits, and those deposits have the
    benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. The
    FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund is funded by assessments on
    insured depository institutions, which depend on the risk
    category of an institution and the amount of insured deposits
    that it holds. The FDIC required us to prepay our estimated
    assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on
    December 30, 2009. The FDIC may increase or decrease
    the assessment rate schedule on asemi-annualbasis. We also participated in the TLGP as discussed above under
    “— FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
    Program.”





Prompt
    Corrective Action





The prompt corrective action regulations apply only to
    depository institutions and not to bank holding companies such
    as Group Inc. However, the Federal Reserve Board is
    authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company
    level, based upon the undercapitalized status of the holding
    company’s depository institution subsidiaries. In certain
    instances relating to an undercapitalized depository institution
    subsidiary, the bank holding company would be required to
    guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized
    subsidiary’s capital restoration plan and might be liable
    for civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments
    on that guarantee. Furthermore, in the event of the bankruptcy
    of the parent holding company, the guarantee would take priority
    over the parent’s general unsecured creditors.



Insolvency of
    an Insured Depository Institution



If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an
    insured depository institution such as GS Bank USA, upon its
    insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power:



•to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and
    liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the
    depository institution’s creditors;•to enforce the terms of the depository institution’s
    contracts pursuant to their terms; or•to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the
    depository institution is a party, the performance of which is
    determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmance or
    repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the
    orderly administration of the depository institution.







In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of deposit
    liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses
    against an insured depository institution would be afforded a
    priority over other general unsecured claims against such an
    institution, including claims of debt holders of the
    institution, in the “liquidation or other resolution”
    of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or
    not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of GS
    Bank USA, the debt holders would be treated differently from,
    and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the
    depositors of the depository institution.



Transactions
    with Affiliates



Transactions between GS Bank USA and Group Inc. and its
    subsidiaries and affiliates are regulated by the Federal Reserve
    Board. These regulations limit the types and amounts of
    transactions (including loans to and credit extensions from GS
    Bank USA) that may take place and generally require those
    transactions to be on an arms-length basis. These regulations
    generally do not apply to transactions between GS Bank USA and
    its subsidiaries. In November 2008, Group Inc.
    transferred assets and operations to GS Bank USA. In connection
    with this transfer, Group Inc. entered into a guarantee
    agreement with GS Bank USA whereby Group Inc. agreed to
    (i) purchase from GS Bank USA certain transferred assets
    (other than derivatives and mortgage servicing rights) or
    reimburse GS Bank USA for certain losses relating to those
    assets; (ii) reimburse GS Bank USA forcredit-relatedlosses from assets transferred to GS Bank USA; and
    (iii) protect GS Bank USA or reimburse it for certain
    losses arising from derivatives and mortgage servicing rights
    transferred to GS Bank USA. In accordance with the
    guarantee agreement, as of December 2009, Group Inc.
    is also required to pledge approximately $4 billion of
    collateral to GS Bank USA.



Trust Companies



Group Inc.’s two limited purpose trust company
    subsidiaries operate under state or federal law. They are not
    permitted to and do not accept deposits or make loans (other
    than as incidental to their trust activities) and, as a result,
    are not insured by the FDIC. The Goldman Sachs
    Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association that is
    limited to fiduciary activities, is regulated by the Office of
    the Comptroller of the Currency and is a member bank of the
    Federal Reserve System. The Goldman Sachs Trust Company of
    Delaware, a Delaware limited purpose trust company, is regulated
    by the Office of the Delaware State Bank Commissioner.



U.S. Securities
    and Commodities Regulation



Goldman Sachs’broker-dealersubsidiaries are subject to regulations that cover all aspects
    of the securities business, including sales methods, trade
    practices, use and safekeeping of clients’ funds and
    securities, capital structure, recordkeeping, the financing of
    clients’ purchases, and the conduct of directors, officers
    and employees.



In the United States, the SEC is the federal agency responsible
    for the administration of the federal securities laws.
    GS&Co. is registered as abroker-dealerand as an investment adviser with the SEC and as abroker-dealerin all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Self-regulatory
    organizations, such as FINRA and the NYSE, adopt rules that
    apply to, and examine,broker-dealerssuch as GS&Co. In addition, state securities and other
    regulators also have regulatory or oversight authority over
    GS&Co. Similarly, our businesses are also subject to
    regulation by variousnon-U.S. governmentaland regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in
    virtually all countries where we have offices. Goldman Sachs
    Execution & Clearing, L.P. (GSEC) and one of its
    subsidiaries are registeredU.S. broker-dealersand are regulated by the SEC, the NYSE and FINRA. Goldman Sachs
    Financial Markets, L.P. is registered with the SEC as an OTC
    derivatives dealer and conducts certain OTC derivatives
    businesses.





The commodity futures and commodity options industry in the
    United States is subject to regulation under the
    U.S. Commodity Exchange Act (CEA). The CFTC is the federal
    agency charged with the administration of the CEA. Several of
    Goldman Sachs’ subsidiaries, including GS&Co. and
    GSEC, are registered with the CFTC and act as futures commission
    merchants, commodity pool operators or commodity trading
    advisors and are subject to the CEA. The rules and regulations
    of various self-regulatory organizations, such as the Chicago
    Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, other
    futures exchanges and the National Futures Association, also
    govern the commodity futures and commodity options businesses of
    these entities.



Rule 15c3-1

Rule 15c3-1.

Rule 15c3-1,

Rule 15c3-1,

Rule 15c3-1.

Form 10-K.



Our exchange-basedmarket-makingbusinesses are subject to extensive regulation by a number of
    securities exchanges. As a Designated Market Maker on the NYSE
    and as a market maker on other exchanges, we are required to
    maintain orderly markets in the securities to which we are
    assigned. Under the NYSE’s Designated Market Maker rules,
    this may require us to supply liquidity to these markets in
    certain circumstances.



J. Aron & Company is authorized by the
    U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to sell
    wholesale physical power atmarket-basedrates. As a FERC-authorized power marketer,
    J. Aron & Company is subject to regulation under
    the U.S. Federal Power Act and FERC regulations and to the
    oversight of FERC. As a result of our investing activities,
    GS&Co. is also an “exempt holding company” under
    the U.S. Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 and
    applicable FERC rules.



In addition, as a result of our power-related and commodities
    activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy,
    environmental and other governmental laws and regulations, as
    discussed under “Risk Factors — Our commodities
    activities, particularly our power generation interests and our
    physical commodities businesses, subject us to extensive
    regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental,
    reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant
    liabilities and costs” in Part I, Item 1A of this
    Annual Report onForm 10-K.





Other Regulation
    in the United States



Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to state
    insurance regulation and oversight in the states in which they
    are domiciled and in the other states in which they are
    licensed, and Group Inc. is subject to oversight as an
    insurance holding company in states where our insurance
    subsidiaries are domiciled. State insurance regulations limit
    the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to
    Group Inc. in certain circumstances, and could require
    regulatory approval for any change in “control” of
    Group Inc., which may include control of 10% or more of our
    voting stock. In addition, a number of our other businesses,
    including our lending and mortgage businesses, require us to
    obtain licenses, adhere to applicable regulations and be subject
    to the oversight of various regulators in the states in which we
    conduct these businesses.



The U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), as amended by the USA
    PATRIOT Act of 2001 (PATRIOT Act), contains anti-money
    laundering and financial transparency laws and mandated the
    implementation of various regulations applicable to all
    financial institutions, including standards for verifying client
    identification at account opening, and obligations to monitor
    client transactions and report suspicious activities. Through
    these and other provisions, the BSA and the PATRIOT Act seek to
    promote the identification of parties that may be involved in
    terrorism, money laundering or other suspicious activities.
    Anti-money laundering laws outside the United States contain
    some similar provisions. The obligation of financial
    institutions, including Goldman Sachs, to identify their
    clients, to monitor for and report suspicious transactions, to
    respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities
    and law enforcement agencies, and to share information with
    other financial institutions, has required the implementation
    and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls
    that have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs,
    and any failure with respect to our programs in this area could
    subject us to substantial liability and regulatory fines.



Regulation Outside
    the United States



Goldman Sachs provides investment services in and from the
    United Kingdom under the regulation of the FSA. Goldman Sachs
    International (GSI), our regulated U.K.broker-dealer,is subject to the capital requirements imposed by the FSA. As of
    December 2009, GSI was in compliance with the FSA capital
    requirements. Other subsidiaries, including Goldman Sachs
    International Bank, are also regulated by the FSA.



Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC (GS Bank Europe), our regulated
    Irish bank, is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed
    by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority. As of
    December 2009, this bank was in compliance with all
    regulatory capital requirements. Group Inc. has issued a
    general guarantee of the obligations of this bank.



Various other Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the
    banking, insurance and securities regulatory authorities of the
    European countries in which they operate, including, among
    others, the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and
    the Bundesbank in Germany, Banque de France and the
    Autorité des Marchés Financiers in France, Banca
    d’Italia and the Commissione Nazionale per le Società
    e la Borsa (CONSOB) in Italy, the Federal Financial Markets
    Service in Russia and the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
    Authority. Certain Goldman Sachs entities are also regulated by
    the European securities, derivatives and commodities exchanges
    of which they are members.



The investment services that are subject to oversight by the FSA
    and other regulators within the European Union (EU) are
    regulated in accordance with national laws, many of which
    implement EU directives requiring, among other things,
    compliance with certain capital adequacy standards, customer
    protection requirements and market conduct and trade reporting
    rules. These standards, requirements and rules are similarly
    implemented, under the same directives, throughout the EU.





Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL), our regulated Japanesebroker-dealer,is subject to the capital requirements imposed by Japan’s
    Financial Services Agency. As of December 2009, GSJCL was
    in compliance with its capital adequacy requirements. GSJCL is
    also regulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities
    Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange, the Japan Securities
    Dealers Association, the Tokyo Commodity Exchange and the
    Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Japan.



Also in Asia, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong
    Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the China Securities
    Regulatory Commission, the Korean Financial Supervisory Service,
    the Reserve Bank of India and the Securities and Exchange Board
    of India, among others, regulate various of our subsidiaries and
    also have capital standards and other requirements comparable to
    the rules of the SEC.



Various Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the banking and
    regulatory authorities in othernon-U.S. countriesin which Goldman Sachs operates, including, among others, Brazil
    and Dubai. In addition, certain of our insurance subsidiaries
    are part of the Lloyd’s market (which is regulated by the
    FSA) and certain are regulated by the Bermuda Monetary Authority.



Regulations
    Applicable in and Outside the United States



The U.S. andnon-U.S. governmentagencies, regulatory bodies and self-regulatory organizations,
    as well as state securities commissions and other state
    regulators in the United States, are empowered to conduct
    administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the
    issuance of cease and desist orders, or the suspension or
    expulsion of abroker-dealeror its directors, officers or employees. From time to time, our
    subsidiaries have been subject to investigations and
    proceedings, and sanctions have been imposed for infractions of
    various regulations relating to our activities, none of which
    has had a material adverse effect on us or our businesses.



The SEC and FINRA have rules governing research analysts,
    including rules imposing restrictions on the interaction between
    equity research analysts and investment banking personnel at
    member securities firms. Variousnon-U.S. jurisdictionshave imposed both substantive and disclosure-based requirements
    with respect to research and may impose additional regulations.
    In 2003, GS&Co. agreed to a global settlement with certain
    federal and state securities regulators and self-regulatory
    organizations to resolve investigations into equity research
    analysts’ alleged conflicts of interest. The global
    settlement includes certain restrictions and undertakings that
    impose costs and limitations on the conduct of our businesses,
    including restrictions on the interaction between research and
    investment banking areas.



Our investment management businesses are subject to significant
    regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating
    to, among other things, the safeguarding of client assets and
    our management of client funds.



As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to
    regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the
    world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold
    capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency
    requirements or internal policies, including policies concerning
    the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based
    upon its underlying risk.



Certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with
    regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments,
    the European Union or other jurisdictionsand/orenacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges
    relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees
    or others, and any failure to comply with these regulations
    could expose us to liabilityand/orreputational damage.





