Item 1.Business





IntroductionGoldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking, securities
    and investment management firm that provides a wide range of
    financial services to a substantial and diversified client base
    that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments
    andhigh-net-worthindividuals.When we use the terms “Goldman Sachs,” “the
    firm,” “we,” “us” and “our,”
    we mean The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.), a
    Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
    References to “thisForm 10-K”are to our Annual Report onForm 10-Kfor the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. All
    references to 2010, 2009 and 2008 refer to our fiscal years
    ended, or the dates, as the context requires,
    December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 and
    November 28, 2008, respectively.Group Inc. is a bank holding company and a financial
    holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the
    Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board). Our
    U.S. depository institution subsidiary, Goldman Sachs Bank
    USA (GS Bank USA), is a New York State-chartered bank.





As of December 2010, we had offices in over 30 countries
    and 44% of our total staff was based outside the Americas (which
    includes the countries in North and South America). Our clients
    are located worldwide, and we are an active participant in
    financial markets around the world. In 2010, we generated 45% of
    our net revenues outside the Americas. For more information on
    our geographic results, see Note 27 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of thisForm 10-K.Our Business
    Segments and Segment Operating ResultsWe report our activities in four business segments: Investment
    Banking; Institutional Client Services; Investing &
    Lending; and Investment Management. The chart below presents our
    four business segments. Prior to the end of 2010, we reported
    our activities in three segments.













The table below presents our segment operating results.



Year
    Ended1% of 2010DecemberDecemberNovemberNet$ in millions201020092008RevenuesInvestment BankingNet revenues$4,810$4,984$5,45312%Operating expenses3,5113,4823,269Pre-taxearnings/(loss)$1,299$1,502$2,184Institutional Client ServicesNet revenues$21,796$32,719$22,34556%Operating expenses14,29113,69110,294Pre-taxearnings$7,505$19,028$12,051Investing & LendingNet revenues$7,541$2,863$(10,821)19%Operating expenses3,3613,5232,719Pre-taxearnings/(loss)$4,180$(660)$(13,540)Investment ManagementNet revenues$5,014$4,607$5,24513%Operating expenses4,0513,6733,528Pre-taxearnings$963$934$1,717TotalNet revenues$39,161$45,173$22,222Operating
    expenses226,26925,34419,886Pre-taxearnings/(loss)$12,892$19,829$2,336





1.Financial information concerning our business segments for 2010,
    2009 and 2008 (with prior periods recast to reflect our new
    segment reporting) is included in “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” and the “Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data,” which are in Part II,
    Items 7 and 8, respectively, of thisForm 10-K.See Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of thisForm 10-Kfor a further breakdown of our net revenues.2.Includes the following expenses that have not been allocated to
    our segments: (i) charitable contributions of
    $345 million and $810 million for the years ended
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively;
    (ii) net provisions for a number of litigation and
    regulatory proceedings of $682 million, $104 million
    and $(4) million for the years ended December 2010,
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively; and
    (iii) real estate-related exit costs of $28 million,
    $61 million and $80 million for the years ended
    December 2010, December 2009 and November 2008,
    respectively.



Investment
    Banking



Investment Banking serves corporate and government clients
    around the world. We provide financial advisory services and
    help companies raise capital to strengthen and grow their
    businesses. We seek to develop and maintainlong-termrelationships with a diverse global group of institutional
    clients, including governments, states and municipalities. Our
    goal is to deliver to our clients the entire resources of the
    firm in a seamless fashion, with investment banking serving as
    the main initial point of contact with Goldman Sachs.





Financial Advisory.Financial Advisory
    includes strategic advisory assignments with respect to mergers
    and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense activities,
    risk management, restructurings andspin-offs.In particular, we help clients execute large, complex
    transactions for which we provide multiple services, including“one-stop”acquisition financing and cross-border structuring expertise.We also assist our clients in managing their asset and liability
    exposures and their capital. In addition, we may provide lending
    commitments and bank loan and bridge loan facilities in
    connection with our advisory assignments.













Underwriting.The other core activity of
    Investment Banking is helping companies raise capital to fund
    their businesses. As a financial intermediary, our job is to
    match the capital of our investing clients — who aim
    to grow the savings of millions of people — with
    the needs of our corporate and government clients —
    who need financing to generate growth, create jobs and deliver
    products and services. Our underwriting activities include
    public offerings and private placements, including domestic and
    cross-border transactions, of a wide range of securities and
    other financial instruments. Underwriting also includes revenues
    from derivative transactions entered into with institutional
    clients in connection with our underwriting activities.



Equity Underwriting.We underwrite
    common and preferred stock and convertible and exchangeable
    securities. We regularly receive mandates for large, complex
    transactions and have held a leading position in worldwide
    public common stock offerings and worldwide initial public
    offerings for many years.



Debt Underwriting.We underwrite and
    originate various types of debt instruments, includinginvestment-gradeandhigh-yielddebt, bank loans and bridge loans, and emerging and growth
    market debt, which may be issued by, among others, corporate,
    sovereign, municipal and agency issuers. In addition, we
    underwrite and originate structured securities, which includemortgage-relatedsecurities and otherasset-backedsecurities.



Institutional
    Client Services

Institutional Client Services serves our clients who come to the
    firm to buy and sell financial products, raise funding and
    manage risk. We do this by acting as a market maker and offering
    market expertise on a global basis. Institutional Client
    Services makes markets and facilitates client transactions in
    fixed income, equity, currency and commodity products. In
    addition, we make markets in and clear client transactions on
    major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide. Market
    makers provide liquidity and play a critical role in price
    discovery, which contributes to the overall efficiency of the
    capital markets. Our willingness to make markets, commit capital
    and take risk in a broad range of products is crucial to our
    client relationships.



Our clients are primarily institutions that are professional
    market participants, including investment entities whose
    ultimate customers include individual investors investing for
    their retirement, buying insurance or putting aside surplus cash
    in a deposit account.





Through our global sales force, we maintain relationships with
    our clients, receiving orders and distributing investment
    research, trading ideas, market information and analysis. As a
    market maker, we provide prices to clients globally across
    thousands of products in all major asset classes and markets. At
    times we take the other side of transactions ourselves if a
    buyer or seller is not readily available and at other times we
    connect our clients to other parties who want to transact. Much
    of this connectivity between the firm and its clients is
    maintained on technology platforms and operates globally
    wherever and whenever markets are open for trading.



Institutional Client Services and our other businesses are
    supported by our Global Investment Research division, which, as
    of December 2010, provided fundamental research on more
    than 3,300 companies worldwide and over 45 national economies,
    as well as on industries, currencies and commodities.



Institutional Client Services generates revenues in three ways:



•In large, highly liquid markets (such as markets for
    U.S. Treasury bills or large capitalization S&P 500
    stocks), we execute a high volume of transactions for our
    clients for modest spreads and fees.•In less liquid markets (such as mid-cap corporate bonds and
    growth market currencies), we execute transactions for our
    clients for spreads and fees that are generally somewhat larger.•We also structure and execute transactions involving customized
    or tailor-made products that address our clients’ risk
    exposures, investment objectives or other complex needs (such as
    a jet fuel hedge for an airline).



Institutional Client Services activities are organized by asset
    class and include both “cash” and
    “derivative” instruments. “Cash” refers to
    trading the underlying instrument (such as a stock, bond or
    barrel of oil). “Derivative” refers to instruments
    that derive their value from underlying asset prices, indices,
    reference rates and other inputs, or a combination of these
    factors (such as an option, which is the right or obligation to
    buy or sell a certain bond or stock index on a specified date in
    the future at a certain price, or an interest rate swap, which
    is the right to convert a fixed rate of interest into a floating
    rate or vice versa).











Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client
    Execution.Includes interest rate products,
    credit products, mortgages, currencies and commodities.



•Interest Rate Products.Government bonds,
    money market instruments such as commercial paper, treasury
    bills, repurchase agreements and other highly liquid securities
    and instruments, as well as interest rate swaps, options and
    other derivatives.•Credit
    Products.Investment-gradecorporate securities,high-yieldsecurities, bank and secured loans, municipal securities,
    emerging market and distressed debt, and credit derivatives.•Mortgages.Commercial and residential
    mortgage-related securities and loan products, and otherasset-backedand derivative instruments.•Currencies.Most currencies, including growth
    market currencies.•Commodities.Oil and natural gas, base,
    precious and other metals, electricity, coal, agricultural and
    other commodity products.



Equities.Includes equity client execution,
    commissions and fees, and securities services.



Equities Client Execution.We make
    markets in equity securities andequity-relatedproducts, including convertible securities, options, futures andover-the-counter(OTC) derivative instruments, on a global basis. As a principal,
    we facilitate client transactions by providing liquidity to our
    clients with large blocks of stocks or options, requiring the
    commitment of our capital. In addition, we engage in insurance
    activities where we reinsure and purchase portfolios of
    insurance risk and acquire pension liabilities.



We also structure and execute derivatives on indices, industry
    groups, financial measures and individual company stocks. We
    develop strategies and provide information about portfolio
    hedging and restructuring and asset allocation transactions for
    our clients. We also work with our clients to create specially
    tailored instruments to enable sophisticated investors to
    establish or liquidate investment positions or undertake hedging
    strategies. We are one of the leading participants in the
    trading and development of equity derivative instruments.





Our exchange-basedmarket-makingactivities include making markets in stocks andexchange-tradedfunds. In the United States, we are one of the leading
    Designated Market Makers (DMMs) for stocks traded on the NYSE.
    For ETFs, we are registered market makers on NYSE Arca. In
    listed options, we are registered as a primary or lead market
    maker or otherwise make markets on the International Securities
    Exchange, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, NYSE Arca, the
    Boston Options Exchange, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and
    NYSE Amex. In futures and options on futures, we are market
    makers on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board
    of Trade.



Commissions and Fees.We generate
    commissions and fees from executing and clearing institutional
    client transactions on major stock, options and futures
    exchanges worldwide. We increasingly provide our clients with
    access to electronic“low-touch”equity trading platforms, and electronic trades account for the
    majority of our equity trading activity. However, a majority of
    our net revenues in these activities continue to be derived from
    our traditional“high-touch”handling of more complex trades. We expect both types of
    activity to remain important.



Securities Services.Includes
    financing, securities lending and other prime brokerage services.



•Financing Services.We provide financing to
    our clients for their securities trading activities through
    margin loans that are collateralized by securities, cash or
    other acceptable collateral. We earn a spread equal to the
    difference between the amount we pay for funds and the amount we
    receive from our client.•Securities Lending Services.We provide
    services that principally involve borrowing and lending
    securities to cover institutional clients’ short sales and
    borrowing securities to cover our short sales and otherwise to
    make deliveries into the market. In addition, we are an active
    participant inbroker-to-brokersecurities lending andthird-partyagency lending activities.•Other Prime Brokerage Services.We earn fees
    by providing clearing, custody and settlement services globally.
    In addition, we help our hedge fund and other clients maintain
    the infrastructure that supports their investing activity by
    providing a suite of services from the moment a client begins
    the process of establishing a new investing business. We provide
    a technology platform and reporting which enables clients to
    monitor their security portfolios, and manage risk exposures.























Investing &
    Lending

Our investing and lending activities, which are typically
    longer-term, include the firm’s investing and relationship
    lending activities across various asset classes, primarily
    including debt securities and loans, public and private equity
    securities, and real estate. These activities include investing
    directly in publicly and privately traded securities and also
    through certain investment funds that we manage. We also provide
    financing to our clients. We manage a diversified global
    portfolio of investments in equity and debt securities and other
    investments in privately negotiated transactions, leveraged
    buyouts, acquisitions and investments in funds managed by
    external parties.



ICBC.We have an investment in the ordinary
    shares of ICBC, the largest bank in China.



Equity Securities (excluding ICBC).We
    make corporate, real estate and infrastructureequity-relatedinvestments.



Debt Securities and Loans.We make
    corporate, real estate and infrastructure debt security-related
    investments. In addition, we provide credit to corporate clients
    through loan facilities and tohigh-net-worthindividuals through secured loans.



Other.Our other investments primarily
    include our consolidated investment entities, which are entities
    we hold for investment purposes strictly for capital
    appreciation. These entities have a defined exit strategy and
    are engaged in activities that are not closely related to our
    principal businesses. We also invest directly in distressed
    assets, currencies, commodities and other assets, including
    power generation facilities.

Investment
    Management

Investment Management provides investment and wealth advisory
    services to help clients preserve and grow their financial
    assets. Our clients include institutions andhigh-net-worthindividuals as well as retail investors, who access our products
    through a network ofthird-partydistributors around the world.



We manage client assets across a broad range of asset classes
    and investment strategies, including equity, fixed income and
    alternative investments. Alternative investments primarily
    include hedge funds, private equity, real estate, currencies,
    commodities, and asset allocation strategies. Our investment
    offerings include those managed on a fiduciary basis by our
    portfolio managers as well as strategies managed bythird-partymanagers. We offer our investments in a variety of structures,
    including separately managed



accounts, mutual funds, private partnerships and other
    commingled vehicles.



We also provide customized investment advisory solutions
    designed to address our clients’ investment needs. These
    solutions begin with identifying clients’ objectives and
    continue through portfolio construction, ongoing asset
    allocation and risk management and investment realization. We
    draw from a variety ofthird-partymanagers as well as our proprietary offerings to implement
    solutions for clients.



We supplement our investment advisory solutions forhigh-net-worthclients with wealth advisory services that include income and
    liability management, trust and estate planning, philanthropic
    giving and tax planning. We also use the firm’s global
    securities and derivativesmarket-makingcapabilities to address clients’ specific investment needs.



Management and Other Fees.The majority
    of revenues in management and other fees is comprised ofasset-basedmanagement fees on client assets. The fees that we charge vary
    by asset class and are affected by investment performance as
    well as asset inflows and redemptions. Other fees we receive
    include financial counseling fees generated through our wealth
    advisory services and fees related to the administration of real
    estate assets.



Assets under management include only those client assets where
    we earn a fee for managing assets on a discretionary basis. This
    includes assets in our mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity
    funds and separately managed accounts for institutional and
    individual investors. Assets under management do not include theself-directedassets of our clients, including brokerage accounts, or
    interest-bearing deposits held through our bank depository
    institution subsidiaries.



Incentive Fees.In certain circumstances, we
    are also entitled to receive incentive fees based on a
    percentage of a fund’s or a separately managed
    account’s return, or when the return exceeds a specified
    benchmark or other performance targets. Such fees include
    overrides, which consist of the increased share of the income
    and gains derived primarily from our private equity and real
    estate funds when the return on a fund’s investments over
    the life of the fund exceeds certain threshold returns.
    Incentive fees are recognized only when all material
    contingencies are resolved.



Transaction Revenues.We receive commissions
    and net spreads for facilitating transactional activity inhigh-net-worthclient accounts. In addition, we earn net interest income
    primarily associated with client deposits and margin lending
    activity undertaken by such clients.















The tables below present assets under management by asset class
    and by distribution channel and client category.



As ofDecember 31,December 31,November 30,in billions201020092008Alternative investments$148$146$146Equity144146112Fixed income340315248Totalnon-moneymarket assets632607506Money markets208264273Total assets under management$840$871$779





As ofDecember 31,December 31,November 30,in billions201020092008Directly Distributed:Institutional$286$297$273High-net-worthindividuals229231215Third-PartyDistributed:Institutional,high-net-worthindividuals and retail325343291Total$840$871$779







Business
    Continuity and Information SecurityBusiness continuity and information security are high priorities
    for Goldman Sachs. Our Business Continuity Program has been
    developed to provide reasonable assurance of business continuity
    in the event of disruptions at the firm’s critical
    facilities and to comply with regulatory requirements, including
    those of FINRA. Because we are a bank holding company, our
    Business Continuity Program is also subject to review by the
    Federal Reserve Board. The key elements of the program are
    crisis management, people recovery facilities, business
    recovery, systems and data recovery, and process improvement. In
    the area of information security, we have developed and
    implemented a framework of principles, policies and technology
    to protect the information assets of the firm and our clients.
    Safeguards are applied to maintain the confidentiality,
    integrity and availability of information resources.





EmployeesManagement believes that a major strength and principal reason
    for the success of Goldman Sachs is the quality and
    dedication of our people and the shared sense of being part
    of a team. We strive to maintain a work environment that fosters
    professionalism, excellence, diversity, cooperation among our
    employees worldwide and high standards of business ethics.Instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all employees is a
    continuous process, in which training plays an important part.
    All employees are offered the opportunity to participate in
    education and periodic seminars that we sponsor at various
    locations throughout the world. Another important part of
    instilling the Goldman Sachs culture is our employee review
    process. Employees are reviewed by supervisors, co-workers and
    employees they supervise in a360-degreereview process that is integral to our team approach, and
    includes an evaluation of an employee’s performance with
    respect to risk management, compliance and diversity.As of December 2010, we had 35,700 total staff, excluding
    staff at consolidated entities held for investment purposes. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations — Results of
    Operations — Operating Expenses” in Part II,
    Item 7 of thisForm 10-Kfor additional information on our consolidated entities held for
    investment purposes.









Competition





The financial services industry — and all of our
    businesses — are intensely competitive, and we expect
    them to remain so. Our competitors are other entities that
    provide investment banking, securities and investment management
    services, as well as those entities that make investments in
    securities, commodities, derivatives, real estate, loans and
    other financial assets. These entities include brokers and
    dealers, investment banking firms, commercial banks, insurance
    companies, investment advisers, mutual funds, hedge funds,
    private equity funds and merchant banks. We compete with some
    entities globally and with others on a regional, product or
    niche basis. Our competition is based on a number of factors,
    including transaction execution, our products and services,
    innovation, reputation and price.



We also face intense competition in attracting and retaining
    qualified employees. Our ability to continue to compete
    effectively will depend upon our ability to attract new
    employees, retain and motivate our existing employees and to
    continue to compensate employees competitively amid intense
    public and regulatory scrutiny on the compensation practices of
    large financial institutions. Our pay practices and those of our
    principal competitors are subject to review by, and the
    standards of, the Federal Reserve Board and regulators outside
    the United States, including the Financial Services Authority
    (FSA) in the United Kingdom. See “Regulation —
    Banking Regulation” and “Regulation —
    Compensation Practices” below and “Risk
    Factors — Our businesses may be adversely affected if
    we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees” in
    Part I, Item 1A of thisForm 10-Kfor more information on the regulation of our compensation
    practices.



Over time, there has been substantial consolidation and
    convergence among companies in the financial services industry.
    This trend accelerated in recent years as the credit crisis
    caused numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry
    participants. Many commercial banks and otherbroad-basedfinancial services firms have had the ability for some time to
    offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and
    insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking
    services, which may enhance their competitive position. They
    also have had the ability to support investment banking and
    securities products with commercial banking, insurance and other
    financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share,
    which has resulted in pricing pressure in our investment banking
    and client execution



businesses and could result in pricing pressure in other of our
    businesses.



Moreover, we have faced, and expect to continue to face,
    pressure to retain market share by committing capital to
    businesses or transactions on terms that offer returns that may
    not be commensurate with their risks. In particular, corporate
    clients seek such commitments (such as agreements to participate
    in their commercial paper backstop or other loan facilities)
    from financial services firms in connection with investment
    banking and other assignments.



Consolidation and convergence have significantly increased the
    capital base and geographic reach of some of our competitors,
    and have also hastened the globalization of the securities and
    other financial services markets. As a result, we have had to
    commit capital to support our international operations and to
    execute large global transactions. To take advantage of some of
    our most significant challenges and opportunities, we will have
    to compete successfully with financial institutions that are
    larger and have more capital and that may have a stronger local
    presence and longer operating history outside the United States.



We have experienced intense price competition in some of our
    businesses in recent years. For example, over the past several
    years the increasing volume of trades executed electronically,
    through the internet and through alternative trading systems,
    has increased the pressure on trading commissions, in that
    commissions for“low-touch”electronic trading are generally lower than for“high-touch”non-electronictrading. It appears that this trend toward electronic and other“low-touch,”low-commissiontrading will continue. In addition, we believe that we will
    continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other
    areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain
    market share by further reducing prices.



The provisions of theU.S. Dodd-FrankWall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act)
    and other financial regulation could affect our competitive
    position to the extent that limitations on activities, increased
    fees and compliance costs or other regulatory requirements do
    not apply, or do not apply equally, to all of our competitors.
    The impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our competitive position
    will depend to a large extent on the details of the required
    rulemaking, as discussed further under “Regulation”
    below.















Regulation





As a participant in the banking, securities, futures and options
    and insurance industries, we are subject to extensive regulation
    worldwide. Regulatory bodies around the world are generally
    charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and
    other financial markets and with protecting the interests of the
    customers of market participants, including depositors in
    banking entities and the customers ofbroker-dealers.They are not, however, generally charged with protecting the
    interests of security holders.



The financial services industry has been the subject of intense
    regulatory scrutiny in recent years. Our businesses have been
    subject to increasing regulation in the United States and other
    countries, and we expect this trend to continue in the future.
    The Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted in July 2010,
    significantly alters the framework within which we operate,
    including through the creation of a new systemic risk oversight
    body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC). The FSOC
    will oversee and coordinate the efforts of the primary
    U.S. financial regulatory agencies (including the Federal
    Reserve Board, the SEC, the CFTC and the FDIC) in establishing
    regulations to address financial stability concerns. The
    Dodd-Frank Act directs the FSOC to make recommendations to the
    Federal Reserve Board as to supervisory requirements and
    prudential standards applicable to systemically important
    financial institutions, includingrisk-basedcapital, leverage, liquidity andrisk-managementrequirements. The Dodd-Frank Act mandates that the requirements
    applicable to systemically important financial institutions be
    more stringent than those applicable to other financial
    companies. Although the criteria for treatment as a systemically
    important financial institution have not yet been determined, it
    is probable that they will apply to our firm.



The implications of the Dodd-Frank Act for our businesses will
    depend to a large extent on the provisions of required future
    rulemaking by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the SEC, the CFTC
    and other agencies, as well as the development of market
    practices and structures under the regime established by the
    legislation and the rules adopted pursuant to it, as discussed
    further throughout this section.





Banking
    Regulation

In September 2008, Group Inc. became a bank holding
    company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act) and
    the Federal Reserve Board became the primary regulator of
    Group Inc., as a consolidated entity. In August 2009,
    Group Inc. became a financial holding company under
    amendments to the BHC Act effected by theU.S. Gramm-Leach-BlileyAct of 1999 (GLB Act).



Supervision and
    Regulation

As a bank holding company and a financial holding company under
    the BHC Act, Group Inc. is subject to supervision and
    examination by the Federal Reserve Board. Under the system of
    “functional regulation” established under the BHC Act,
    the Federal Reserve Board serves as the primary regulator of our
    consolidated organization, but generally defers to the primary
    regulators of ourU.S. non-banksubsidiaries with respect to the activities of those
    subsidiaries. Such “functionally regulated”non-banksubsidiaries includebroker-dealersregistered with the SEC, such as our principalU.S. broker-dealer,Goldman, Sachs & Co. (GS&Co.), insurance
    companies regulated by state insurance authorities, investment
    advisers registered with the SEC with respect to their
    investment advisory activities and entities regulated by the
    CFTC with respect to certain futures-related activities.



Activities

The BHC Act generally restricts bank holding companies from
    engaging in business activities other than the business of
    banking and certain closely related activities. As a financial
    holding company, we may engage in a broader range of financial
    and related activities than are permissible for bank holding
    companies as long as we continue to meet the  eligibility
    requirements for financial holding companies, including our
    U.S. depository institution subsidiaries (consisting of
    GS Bank USA and our national bank trust company subsidiary)
    maintaining their status as “well-capitalized” and
    “well-managed” as described under
    “— Prompt Corrective Action” below. These
    activities include underwriting, dealing and making markets in
    securities, insurance underwriting and making investments in
    nonfinancial companies. In addition, we are permitted under the
    GLB Act to continue to engage in certain commodities
    activities in the United States that would otherwise be
    impermissible for bank holding companies, so long as the assets
    held pursuant to these activities do not equal 5% or more of our
    consolidated assets.











Beginning in July 2011, our financial holding company
    status will also depend on Group Inc.’s maintaining
    its status as “well-capitalized” and
    “well-managed.”



As a bank holding company, we are required to obtain prior
    Federal Reserve Board approval before directly or indirectly
    acquiring more than 5% of any class of voting shares of any
    unaffiliated depository institution. In addition, as a bank
    holding company, we may generally engage in banking and other
    financial activities abroad, including investing in and owningnon-U.S. banks,if those activities and investments do not exceed certain limits
    and, in some cases, if we have obtained the prior approval of
    the Federal Reserve Board.



We expect to face additional limitations on our activities upon
    implementation of those provisions of theDodd-FrankAct referred to as the “Volcker Rule,” which will
    prohibit “proprietary trading” (other than for certainrisk-mitigationactivities) and limit the sponsorship of, and investment in,
    hedge funds and private equity funds by banking entities,
    including bank holding companies such as us. The extent of the
    additional limitations will depend on the details of agency
    rulemaking. The Volcker Rule provisions will take effect no
    later than July 2012, and companies will be required to
    come into compliance within two years after the effective date
    (subject to possible extensions).



Capital and
    Liquidity Requirements

As a bank holding company, we are subject to consolidated
    regulatory capital requirements administered by the Federal
    Reserve Board. GS Bank USA is subject to broadly similar
    capital requirements, as discussed below. Under the Federal
    Reserve Board’s capital adequacy requirements and the
    regulatory framework for prompt corrective action that is
    applicable to GS Bank USA, Group Inc. and GS Bank
    USA must meet specific regulatory capital requirements that
    involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certainoff-balance-sheetitems. The calculation of our capital levels and those of
    GS Bank USA, as well as GS Bank USA’s prompt
    corrective action classification, are also subject to
    qualitative judgments by regulators.



Tier 1 Leverage and Basel I Capital
    Ratios.See Note 20 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of thisForm 10-Kfor information on our Tier 1 capital ratio, Tier 1
    capital, total capital,risk-weightedassets and Tier 1 leverage ratio, and for a discussion of
    minimum required ratios.





Pending Changes in Capital Requirements.We
    are currently working to implement the requirements set out in
    the Federal Reserve Board’s Capital Adequacy Guidelines for
    Bank Holding Companies: Internal Ratings-Based and Advanced
    Measurement Approaches, which are based on the advanced
    approaches under the Revised Framework for the International
    Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued
    by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee)
    as such requirements apply to us as a bank holding company
    (Basel 2). U.S. banking regulators have incorporated
    the Basel 2 framework into the existingrisk-basedcapital requirements by requiring that internationally active
    banking organizations, such as us, transition to Basel 2
    following the successful completion of a parallel run.



risk-weighted











The Dodd-Frank Act will subject Goldman Sachs at a firmwide
    level to the same leverage andrisk-basedcapital requirements that apply to depository institutions, and
    directs banking regulators to impose additional capital
    requirements, as discussed above. The Federal Reserve Board will
    be required to begin implementing the new leverage andrisk-basedcapital regulation by January 2012. As a consequence of
    these changes, Tier 1 capital treatment for our junior
    subordinated debt issued to trusts and our cumulative preferred
    stock will be phased out over a three-year period beginning on
    January 1, 2013. The interaction between the
    Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel Committee’s proposed changes
    adds further uncertainty to our future capital requirements. For
    example, regulations implementing provisions of the Dodd-Frank
    Act are expected to subject us to a continuing “floor”
    of the Federal Reserve Board’s regulatory requirements
    currently applicable to bank holding companies (Basel 1),
    which are based on the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee, in
    cases where Basel 2 or Basel 3 would otherwise permit lower
    capital requirements.



Liquidity Ratios under Basel 3.

high-quality

30-day

long-term

one-year

long-term





Payment of
    Dividends

Dividend payments by Group Inc. to its shareholders are
    subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve Board. Under
    temporary guidance issued by the Federal Reserve Board in
    November 2010, the dividend policy of large bank holding
    companies, such as Goldman Sachs, is reviewed by the Federal
    Reserve Board based on capital plans and stress tests submitted
    by the bank holding company, and will be assessed against, among
    other things, the ability to achieve the Basel 3 capital ratio
    requirements referred to above as they are phased in by
    U.S. regulators and any potential impact of the Dodd-Frank
    Act on the company’s risk profile, business strategy,
    corporate structure or capital adequacy. The Federal
    Reserve’s current guidance provides that, for large bank
    holding companies like us, dividend payout ratios exceeding 30%
    of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.





In addition, certain of Group Inc.’snon-banksubsidiaries are subject to separate regulatory limitations on
    dividends and distributions, including ourbroker-dealerand our insurance subsidiaries as described below.













Source of
    Strength

Federal Reserve Board policy historically has required bank
    holding companies to act as a source of strength to their bank
    subsidiaries and to commit capital and financial resources to
    support those subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act codifies this
    policy as a statutory requirement. This support may be required
    by the Federal Reserve Board at times when we might otherwise
    determine not to provide it. Capital loans by a bank holding
    company to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment
    to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary
    bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy,
    any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank
    regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be
    assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority
    payment.



However, because the BHC Act provides for functional regulation
    of bank holding company activities by various regulators, the
    BHC Act prohibits the Federal Reserve Board from requiring
    payment by a holding company or subsidiary to a depository
    institution if the functional regulator of the payor entity
    objects to such payment. In such a case, the Federal Reserve
    Board could instead require the divestiture of the depository
    institution and impose operating restrictions pending the
    divestiture.



Cross-guarantee
    Provisions

Each insured depository institution “controlled” (as
    defined in the BHC Act) by the same bank holding company can be
    held liable to the FDIC for any loss incurred, or reasonably
    expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of any
    other insured depository institution controlled by that holding
    company and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to any of
    those depository institutions that is in danger of default. Such
    a “cross-guarantee” claim against a depository
    institution is generally superior in right of payment to claims
    of the holding company and its affiliates against that
    depository institution. At this time, we control only one
    insured depository institution for this purpose, namely
    GS Bank USA. However, if, in the future, we were to control
    other insured depository institutions, the cross-guarantee would
    apply to all such insured depository institutions.



Compensation
    Practices

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the
    Federal Reserve Board and, with respect to some of our
    subsidiaries and employees, by other financial regulatory bodies
    worldwide. The scope and content of compensation regulation in
    the financial industry are continuing to develop, and we expect
    that these policies will evolve over a number of years.





The Dodd-Frank Act requires the U.S. financial regulators,
    including the Federal Reserve Board, to establish joint
    regulations or guidelines prohibiting incentive-based payment
    arrangements at specified regulated entities having at least
    $1 billion in total assets (which would include
    Group Inc. and some of its depositary institution,broker-dealerand investment advisor subsidiaries) that encourage
    inappropriate risks by providing an executive officer, employee,
    director or principal shareholder with excessive compensation,
    fees, or benefits or that could lead to material financial loss
    to the entity. In addition, these regulators must establish
    regulations or guidelines requiring enhanced disclosure to
    regulators of incentive-based compensation arrangements. The
    initial version of these regulations was proposed by the FDIC in
    February 2011 and the regulations may become effective
    before the end of 2011. If the regulations are adopted in the
    form initially proposed, they will impose limitations on the
    manner in which we may structure compensation for our executives.



Dodd-Frank,











The Financial Stability Board, established at the direction of
    the leaders of the Group of 20, has released standards for
    implementing certain compensation principles for banks and other
    financial companies designed to encourage sound compensation
    practices. These standards are to be implemented by local
    regulators. In July 2010, the European Parliament adopted
    amendments to the Capital Requirements Directive designed to
    implement the Financial Stability Board’s compensation
    standards within the EU. Regulators in a number of countries,
    including the United Kingdom, France and Germany, have proposed
    or adopted compensation policies or regulations applicable to
    financial institutions pursuant to the Capital Requirements
    Directive. These are in addition to the proposals and guidance
    issued by U.S. financial regulators discussed above.



GS Bank
    USA

Our subsidiary, GS Bank USA, an FDIC-insured, New York
    State-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System
    and the FDIC, is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board and the
    New York State Banking Department and is subject to minimum
    capital requirements (described further below) that are
    calculated in a manner similar to those applicable to bank
    holding companies. A number of our activities are conducted
    partially or entirely through GS Bank USA and its
    subsidiaries, including: origination of and market making in
    bank loans; interest rate, credit, currency and other
    derivatives; leveraged finance; commercial and residential
    mortgage origination, trading and servicing; structured finance;
    and agency lending, custody and hedge fund administration
    services. These activities are subject to regulation by the
    Federal Reserve Board, the New York State Banking Department and
    the FDIC.



The Dodd-Frank Act contains “derivative push-out”
    provisions that, beginning in July 2012, will essentially
    prevent us from conducting certainswaps-relatedactivities through GS Bank USA or another insured
    depository institution subsidiary, subject to exceptions for
    certain interest rate and currency swaps and for hedging or risk
    mitigation activities directly related to the bank’s
    business. These precluded activities may be conducted elsewhere
    within the firm, subject to certain requirements.





Transactions with
    Affiliates

Transactions between GS Bank USA and Group Inc. and
    its subsidiaries and affiliates are regulated by the Federal
    Reserve Board. These regulations limit the types and amounts of
    transactions (including loans to and credit extensions from
    GS Bank USA) that may take place and generally require
    those transactions to be on an arm’s-length basis. These
    regulations generally do not apply to transactions between
    GS Bank USA and its subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act
    significantly expands the coverage and scope of the regulations
    that limit affiliate transactions within a banking organization,
    including coverage of the credit exposure on derivative
    transactions, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements,
    securities borrowing and lending transactions, and transactions
    with sponsored hedge funds and private equity funds.



In November 2008, Group Inc. transferred assets and
    operations to GS Bank USA. In connection with this
    transfer, Group Inc. entered into a guarantee agreement
    with GS Bank USA whereby Group Inc. agreed to
    (i) purchase from GS Bank USA certain transferred
    assets (other than derivatives and mortgage servicing rights) or
    reimburse GS Bank USA for certain losses relating to those
    assets; (ii) reimburse GS Bank USA forcredit-relatedlosses from assets transferred to GS Bank USA;
    (iii) protect GS Bank USA or reimburse it for certain
    losses arising from derivatives and mortgage servicing rights
    transferred to GS Bank USA; and (iv) pledge collateral
    to GS Bank USA.



The Dodd-Frank Act will require us to prepare and provide to
    regulators a resolution plan (a so-called “living
    will”) that must, among other things, ensure that our
    depository institution subsidiaries are adequately protected
    from risks arising from our other subsidiaries. The
    establishment and maintenance of this resolution plan may, as a
    practical matter, present additional constraints on our entity
    structure and transactions among our subsidiaries.











Deposit
    Insurance

GS Bank USA accepts deposits, and those deposits have the
    benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. The
    FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund is funded by assessments on
    insured depository institutions, such as GS Bank USA, and
    these assessments are currently based on the risk category of an
    institution and the amount of insured deposits that it holds.
    The FDIC required all insured depository institutions to prepay
    estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on
    December 30, 2009. The FDIC may increase or decrease
    the assessment rate schedule on asemi-annualbasis. In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC amended
    its regulations, effective April 1, 2011, to base insurance
    assessments on the average total consolidated assets less the
    average tangible equity of the insured depository institution
    during the assessment period.



Prompt Corrective
    Action

The U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement
    Act of 1991 (FDICIA), among other things, requires the federal
    banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in
    respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified
    capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories
    for FDIC-insured banks: well-capitalized, adequately
    capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized
    and critically undercapitalized.



A depository institution is generally deemed to be“well-capitalized,”the highest category, if it has a Tier 1 capital ratio of
    at least 6%, a total capital ratio of at least 10% and a
    Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%. In connection with
    the November 2008 asset transfer described under
    “Transactions with Affiliates” below, GS Bank USA
    agreed with the Federal Reserve Board to maintain minimum
    capital ratios in excess of these “well-capitalized”
    levels.



See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of thisForm 10-Kfor information on the calculation of GS Bank USA’s
    capital ratios under Basel 1 and for a discussion of
    minimum required ratios.



GS Bank USA computes its capital ratios in accordance with
    the regulatory capital requirements currently applicable to
    state member banks, which are based on Basel 1 as implemented by
    the Federal Reserve Board. An institution may be downgraded to,
    or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than is
    indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an
    unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory
    examination rating with respect to certain matters. FDICIA
    imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on
    operations, management and capital distributions, as the capital
    category of an institution



declines. Failure to meet the capital requirements could also
    subject a depository institution to capital raising
    requirements. Ultimately, critically undercapitalized
    institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or
    conservator.



The prompt corrective action regulations apply only to
    depository institutions and not to bank holding companies such
    as Group Inc. However, the Federal Reserve Board is
    authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company
    level, based upon the undercapitalized status of the holding
    company’s depository institution subsidiaries. In certain
    instances relating to an undercapitalized depository institution
    subsidiary, the bank holding company would be required to
    guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized
    subsidiary’s capital restoration plan and might be liable
    for civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments
    on that guarantee. Furthermore, in the event of the bankruptcy
    of the holding company, the guarantee would take priority over
    the holding company’s general unsecured creditors.



Insolvency of an
    Insured Depository Institution or a Bank Holding
    Company

If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an
    insured depository institution such as GS Bank USA, upon
    its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the
    power:



•to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and
    liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the
    depository institution’s creditors;•to enforce the terms of the depository institution’s
    contracts pursuant to their terms; or•to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the
    depository institution is a party, the performance of which is
    determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmance or
    repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the
    orderly administration of the depository institution.



In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of deposit
    liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses
    against an insured depository institution would be afforded a
    priority over other general unsecured claims against such an
    institution, including claims of debt holders of the
    institution, in the “liquidation or other resolution”
    of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or
    not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of
    GS Bank USA, the debt holders would be treated differently
    from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than,
    the depositors of the depository institution.











The Dodd-Frank Act creates a resolution regime for systemically
    importantnon-bankfinancial companies, including bank holding companies and their
    affiliates, under which the FDIC may be appointed receiver to
    liquidate the entity. This resolution authority was based on the
    FDIC resolution model for depository institutions, with certain
    modifications to reflect differences between depository
    institutions andnon-bankfinancial companies and to reduce disparities between the
    treatment of creditors’ claims under the
    U.S. Bankruptcy Code and in an orderly liquidation
    authority proceeding compared to those that would exist under
    the resolution model for depository institutions.



Trust Companies

Group Inc.’s two limited purpose trust company
    subsidiaries are not permitted to and do not accept deposits or
    make loans (other than as incidental to their trust
    activities) and, as a result, are not insured by the FDIC. The
    Goldman Sachs Trust Company, N.A., a national banking
    association that is limited to fiduciary activities, is
    regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
    and is a member bank of the Federal Reserve System. The Goldman
    Sachs Trust Company of Delaware, a Delaware limited purpose
    trust company, is regulated by the Office of the Delaware State
    Bank Commissioner.



U.S. Securities
    and Commodities Regulation

Goldman Sachs’broker-dealersubsidiaries are subject to regulations that cover all aspects
    of the securities business, including sales methods, trade
    practices, use and safekeeping of clients’ funds and
    securities, capital structure, recordkeeping, the financing of
    clients’ purchases, and the conduct of directors, officers
    and employees. In the United States, the SEC is the federal
    agency responsible for the administration of the federal
    securities laws. GS&Co. is registered as abroker-dealer,a municipal advisor and an investment adviser with the SEC and
    as abroker-dealerin all 50 states and the District of Columbia.
    Self-regulatory organizations, such as FINRA and the NYSE, adopt
    rules that apply to, and examine,broker-dealerssuch as GS&Co.



In addition, state securities and other regulators also have
    regulatory or oversight authority over GS&Co. Similarly,
    our businesses are also subject to regulation by variousnon-U.S. governmentaland regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in
    virtually all countries where we have offices. Goldman Sachs
    Execution & Clearing, L.P. (GSEC) and one of its
    subsidiaries are registeredU.S. broker-dealersand are



regulated by the SEC, the NYSE and FINRA. Goldman Sachs
    Financial Markets, L.P. is registered with the SEC as an OTC
    derivatives dealer and conducts certain OTC derivatives
    activities.



The commodity futures and commodity options industry in the
    United States is subject to regulation under the
    U.S. Commodity Exchange Act (CEA). The CFTC is the federal
    agency charged with the administration of the CEA. Several of
    Goldman Sachs’ subsidiaries, including GS&Co. and
    GSEC, are registered with the CFTC and act as futures commission
    merchants, commodity pool operators or commodity trading
    advisors and are subject to CEA regulations. The rules and
    regulations of various self-regulatory organizations, such as
    the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange,
    other futures exchanges and the National Futures Association,
    also govern the commodity futures and commodity options
    activities of these entities.



For a discussion of net capital requirements applicable to
    GS&Co. and GSEC, see Note 20 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of thisForm 10-K.



Our exchange-basedmarket-makingactivities are subject to extensive regulation by a number of
    securities exchanges. As a DMM on the NYSE and as a market maker
    on other exchanges, we are required to maintain orderly markets
    in the securities to which we are assigned. Under the
    NYSE’s DMM rules, this may require us to supply liquidity
    to these markets in certain circumstances.



J. Aron & Company is authorized by the
    U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to sell
    wholesale physical power atmarket-basedrates. As a FERC-authorized power marketer, J. Aron &
    Company is subject to regulation under the U.S. Federal
    Power Act and FERC regulations and to the oversight of FERC. As
    a result of our investing activities, GS&Co. is also an
    “exempt holding company” under the U.S. Public
    Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 and applicable FERC rules.



In addition, as a result of our power-related and commodities
    activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy,
    environmental and other governmental laws and regulations, as
    discussed under “RiskFactors — Ourcommodities activities, particularly our power generation
    interests and our physical commodities activities, subject us to
    extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and
    environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us
    to significant liabilities and costs” in Part I,
    Item 1A of thisForm 10-K.











The Dodd-Frank Act will result in additional regulation of ourbroker-dealerand regulated subsidiaries in a number of respects. The
    legislation calls for the imposition of expanded standards of
    care by market participants in dealing with clients and
    customers, including by providing the SEC with authority to
    adopt rules establishing fiduciary duties forbroker-dealersand directing the SEC to examine and improve sales practices and
    disclosure bybroker-dealersand investment advisers. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains
    provisions designed to increase transparency inover-the-counterderivatives markets by requiring the registration of all swap
    dealers andsecurity-basedswap dealers, and the clearing and execution of
    “swaps” through regulated facilities (subject to
    limited exceptions, including swaps withnon-financialend users and swaps that are not cleared by a clearing agency).
    Furthermore, federal banking agencies are required under the
    Dodd-Frank Act to develop rules whereby anyone who organizes or
    initiates anasset-backedsecurity transaction must retain a portion (generally, at least
    five percent) of any credit risk that the person conveys to a
    third party.



Other Regulation
    in the United States

Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to state
    insurance regulation and oversight in the states in which they
    are domiciled and in the other states in which they are
    licensed, and Group Inc. is subject to oversight as an
    insurance holding company in states where our insurance
    subsidiaries are domiciled. State insurance regulations limit
    the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to
    Group Inc. in certain circumstances, and could require
    regulatory approval for any change in “control” of
    Group Inc., which may include control of 10% or more of our
    voting stock. In addition, a number of our other activities,
    including our lending and mortgage activities, require us to
    obtain licenses, adhere to applicable regulations and be subject
    to the oversight of various regulators in the states in which we
    conduct these activities.



The U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), as amended by the USA
    PATRIOT Act of 2001 (PATRIOT Act), containsanti-moneylaundering and financial transparency laws and mandated the
    implementation of various regulations applicable to all
    financial institutions, including standards for verifying client
    identification at account opening, and obligations to monitor
    client transactions and report suspicious activities. Through
    these and other provisions, the BSA and the PATRIOT Act seek to
    promote the identification of parties that may be involved in
    terrorism, money laundering or other suspicious activities.
    Anti-money laundering laws outside the United States contain
    some similar



provisions. The obligation of financial institutions, including
    Goldman Sachs, to identify their clients, to monitor for and
    report suspicious transactions, to respond to requests for
    information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement
    agencies, and to share information with other financial
    institutions, has required the implementation and maintenance of
    internal practices, procedures and controls that have increased,
    and may continue to increase, our costs, and any failure with
    respect to our programs in this area could subject us to
    substantial liability and regulatory fines.



Regulation Outside
    the United States

Goldman Sachs provides investment services in and from the
    United Kingdom under the regulation of the FSA. Goldman Sachs
    International (GSI), our regulated U.K.broker-dealer,is subject to the capital requirements imposed by the FSA. Other
    subsidiaries, including Goldman Sachs International Bank (GSIB),
    our regulated U.K. bank, are also regulated by the FSA. As of
    December 2010, GSI and GSIB were in compliance with the FSA
    capital requirements.



Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC (GS Bank Europe), our
    regulated Irish bank, is subject to minimum capital requirements
    imposed by the Central Bank of Ireland. As of
    December 2010, this bank was in compliance with all
    regulatory capital requirements. Group Inc. has issued a
    general guarantee of the obligations of this bank.



Various other Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the
    banking, insurance and securities regulatory authorities of the
    European countries in which they operate, including, among
    others, the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and
    the Bundesbank in Germany, the Autorité de Contrôle
    Prudentiel and the Autorité des Marchés Financiers in
    France, Banca d’Italia and the Commissione Nazionale per le
    Società e la Borsa (CONSOB) in Italy, the Federal Financial
    Markets Service and the Central Bank of the Russian Federation
    in Russia and the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority.
    Certain Goldman Sachs entities are also regulated by the
    European securities, derivatives and commodities exchanges of
    which they are members.











The investment services that are subject to oversight by the FSA
    and other regulators within the European Union (EU) are
    regulated in accordance with national laws, many of which
    implement EU directives requiring, among other things,
    compliance with certain capital adequacy standards, customer
    protection requirements and market conduct and trade reporting
    rules. These standards, requirements and rules are generally
    implemented in a similar manner, under the same directives,
    throughout the EU.



The EU has adopted risk retention requirements applicable toasset-backedsecurity offerings similar to those required under the
    Dodd-Frank Act, as well as enhanced disclosure requirements
    applicable to such offerings.



Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL), our regulated Japanesebroker-dealer,is subject to the capital requirements imposed by Japan’s
    Financial Services Agency. As of December 2010, GSJCL was
    in compliance with its capital adequacy requirements. GSJCL is
    also regulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities
    Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange, the Japan Securities
    Dealers Association, the Tokyo Commodity Exchange and the
    Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Japan.



Also in Asia, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong
    Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the China Securities
    Regulatory Commission, the Korean Financial Supervisory Service,
    the Reserve Bank of India and the Securities and Exchange Board
    of India, among others, regulate various of our subsidiaries and
    also have capital standards and other requirements comparable to
    the rules of the SEC.



Various Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the banking and
    regulatory authorities in countries in which Goldman Sachs
    operates, including, among others, Brazil and Dubai. In
    addition, certain of our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by
    the FSA and certain are regulated by the Bermuda Monetary
    Authority.





Regulations
    Applicable in and Outside the United States

The U.S. andnon-U.S. governmentagencies, regulatory bodies and self-regulatory organizations,
    as well as state securities commissions and other state
    regulators in the United States, are empowered to conduct
    administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the
    issuance of cease and desist orders, or the suspension or
    expulsion of abroker-dealeror its directors, officers or employees. From time to time, our
    subsidiaries have been subject to investigations and
    proceedings, and sanctions have been imposed for infractions of
    various regulations relating to our activities.



The SEC and FINRA have rules governing research analysts,
    including rules imposing restrictions on the interaction between
    equity research analysts and investment banking personnel at
    member securities firms. Variousnon-U.S. jurisdictionshave imposed both substantive and disclosure-based requirements
    with respect to research and may impose additional regulations.



Our investment management business is subject to significant
    regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating
    to, among other things, the safeguarding of client assets and
    our management of client funds.



As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to
    regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the
    world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold
    capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency
    requirements or internal policies, including policies concerning
    the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based
    upon its underlying risk.



Certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with
    regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments,
    the EU or other jurisdictionsand/orenacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges
    relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees
    or others, and any failure to comply with these regulations
    could expose us to liabilityand/orreputational damage.























Available
    Information



Our internet address iswww.gs.comand the investor
    relations section of our web site is located atwww.gs.com/shareholders. We make available free of charge
    through the investor relations section of our web site, annual
    reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Qand current reports onForm 8-Kand amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), as well as proxy statements, as soon
    as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Also posted on our web
    site, and available in print upon request of any shareholder to
    our Investor Relations Department, are our certificate of
    incorporation and by-laws, charters for our Audit Committee,
    Risk Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate Governance
    and Nominating Committee, our Policy Regarding Director
    Independence Determinations, our Policy on Reporting of Concerns
    Regarding Accounting and Other Matters, our Corporate Governance
    Guidelines and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing
    our directors, officers and employees. Within the time period
    required by the SEC, we will post on our web site any amendment
    to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver
    applicable to any executive officer, director or senior
    financial officer (as defined in the Code).



In addition, our web site includes information concerning
    purchases and sales of our equity securities by our executive
    officers and directors, as well as disclosure relating to
    certainnon-GAAPfinancial measures (as defined in the SEC’s
    Regulation G) that we may make public orally,
    telephonically, by webcast, by broadcast or by similar means
    from time to time.



Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., 200 West Street, 29th Floor, New
    York, New York 10282, Attn: Investor Relations, telephone:212-902-0300,e-mail:gs-investor-relations@gs.com.

Cautionary
    Statement Pursuant to the U.S. Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995



We have included or incorporated by reference in thisForm 10-K,and from time to time our management may make, statements that
    may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the
    meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
    statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only
    our



beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature,
    are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These
    statements include statements other than historical information
    or statements of current condition and may relate to our future
    plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may
    also include our belief regarding the effect of changes to the
    capital and leverage rules applicable to bank holding companies,
    the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our businesses and
    operations, and various legal proceedings as set forth under
    “Legal Proceedings” in Note 30 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of thisForm 10-K,as well as statements about the objectives and effectiveness of
    our risk management and liquidity policies, statements about
    trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses, statements
    about our future status, activities or reporting under
    U.S. ornon-U.S. bankingand financial regulation, and statements about our investment
    banking transaction backlog.



By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are
    alerting you to the possibility that our actual results and
    financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the
    anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these
    forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause
    our actual results and financial condition to differ from those
    indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among
    others, those discussed below and under “Risk Factors”
    in Part I, Item 1A of thisForm 10-K.



In the case of statements about our investment banking
    transaction backlog, such statements are subject to the risk
    that the terms of these transactions may be modified or that
    they may not be completed at all; therefore, the net revenues,
    if any, that we actually earn from these transactions may
    differ, possibly materially, from those currently expected.
    Important factors that could result in a modification of the
    terms of a transaction or a transaction not being completed
    include, in the case of underwriting transactions, a decline or
    continued weakness in general economic conditions, outbreak of
    hostilities, volatility in the securities markets generally or
    an adverse development with respect to the issuer of the
    securities and, in the case of financial advisory transactions,
    a decline in the securities markets, an inability to obtain
    adequate financing, an adverse development with respect to a
    party to the transaction or a failure to obtain a required
    regulatory approval. For a discussion of other important factors
    that could adversely affect our investment banking transactions,
    see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of
    thisForm 10-K.















